

1 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Pressures Rich Nations to Fill Gap in Iraq Reconstruction Created by Security Needs

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is pressing wealthy countries to come up with money to help fill the gap created by its decision to divert $3.5 billion in American reconstruction funds for Iraq into security and job creation, administration officials said.
 The drive to make up the difference in reconstruction funds comes ahead of a meeting of international donors, scheduled for Tokyo on Oct. 13-14, to take stock of what some acknowledge to have been a disappointing effort to raise money in Europe and the Arab world to rebuild Iraq. 
 At the first international donors conference on Iraq reconstruction, a year ago in Madrid, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell returned with pledges of $13 billion to be delivered over four years. At the time, American officials said they wanted as much money as possible to be handed out in the first year in an attempt to stabilize Iraq. 
 Only $1.3 billion of the pledged money has been provided so far, however, more than half of that from Britain and Japan, officials said.
 One issue American officials expect they will have to address in Tokyo, however, is how little of the American reconstruction money has been delivered. Of the $18.4 billion Congress approved last year for Iraq, little more than $1 billion has been spent. 
 An important factor holding up reconstruction projects has been the continuing violence in Iraq, which prompted the administration's decision to shift some of the promised money into security.
 ''In Tokyo, we're going to spend a lot of time asking donors to put money into power and water and infrastructure projects that we've been unable to do because we've had to reprogram our funds,'' said a State Department official. ''Hopefully, these are sectors the donors will want to support.''
 Administration officials say they are keeping their expectations low and have been careful not to set specific targets for the amount of money to be raised in Tokyo. 
 ''This is not going to be a pledging meeting or a shaking-money-out-of-the-trees meeting,'' said an official involved in the planning. ''It's more of a notes-comparing, technical meeting.'' The United States is to be represented by Deputy Secretary of State Richard L. Armitage and by Anthony Wayne, an assistant secretary of state for economic and business affairs.
 They and other American officials may face questions about the growing insurgency in Iraq and its effect on reconstruction spending, conference officials said. The continued fighting, bombings, kidnappings and sabotage have discouraged private contractors from seeking out the work. 
 Administration officials also say that cumbersome regulations for awarding contracts -- requiring requests for proposals and competitive bidding -- have delayed the spending of the money. 
 International donors are sympathetic to the problems that have plagued reconstruction projects in Iraq, foreign officials say. At the same time, they say that these problems make it difficult for them to come up with the money as fast as Washington wants.
 ''There is some real work being done in Iraq,'' said an official from an international donor agency. ''But it adds up to very little. It's hard to get countries to pony up more money when the money in the bank hasn't been spent.''
 Other officials explain that it has not been easy to coordinate all the different projects that countries want to do. In addition, it took some time to set up two trust funds operated by the World Bank and the United Nations Development Fund.
 Many donor countries, distrusting the American-led occupation as a potential recipient for donations, wanted to give money to the trust funds to ensure that it would not be siphoned off for other purposes. Further delays occurred when the Iraqi interim government took office on June 28 and changed personnel dealing with reconstruction.
 At least $5.5 billion of the $13 billion pledged in Madrid was to come as loans from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, but the money could not be made available until Iraq regained some sovereignty and various technical issues were resolved, including a plan to calculate how to reschedule Iraq's debt.
 ''The issue is not so much fund-raising as getting results on the ground,'' said Joseph Saba, director of the Middle East at the World Bank. ''That's what the Tokyo meeting is all about.''
 Last month, the Bush administration adopted a recommendation from the American ambassador in Baghdad, John D. Negroponte, to shift $3.5 billion away from water, power and other reconstruction projects and into security and job programs, in some cases channeled to unstable areas. This shift must still be approved by Congress. 
 At the time, Marc Grossman, under secretary of state for political affairs, said, ''We don't want anybody to walk away thinking that there won't be any money in these accounts left'' for the original purposes.
 But in Iraq's planning and related ministries, there were complaints that the United States might be shortchanging long-term infrastructure needs to deal with a short-term security problem. It was then decided, administration officials said, to use the Tokyo donors' conference to make up some of the difference.
 ''It's been harder to get aid on the ground because of security problems,'' said an official. ''But we are disbursing funds. Donors like the World Bank and the United Nations have been afraid not to send big delegations into Iraq. But they're doing some creative things, like using local employees and video conferencing from offices in Jordan.''
 This official said that the administration would try to get countries to speed up their pledges at Tokyo but that ''it's not a pledging conference but an opportunity to have Iraq lay out its vision of its needs.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); APPROVALS (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (65%); TERRORISM (65%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (65%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (60%); CONTRACT AWARDS (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Foreign Aid; Security and Warning Systems; Politics and Government

PERSON: Steven R Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush; Richard L (Deputy Sec) Armitage; Anthony Wayne

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); MADRID, SPAIN (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); SPAIN (93%); JAPAN (91%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Iraq; Great Britain; Japan; United States; Iraq; Tokyo (Japan); Madrid (Spain); Spain

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



2 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Workers in the Netherlands Say the 'Dutch Way' Is Threatened

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: AMSTERDAM, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
Hans Thysebaard, a Dutch firefighter, spends his days cutting people out of crashed cars, spraying burning buildings and diving into frigid canals when cars veer off the road.
 The work is physically demanding and emotionally trying. He cannot forget the day last March when a 21-year-old victim of a car accident died in his arms. ''That's mentally very tough,'' he said. 
 Now, Mr. Thysebaard, 34, has joined the ranks of the angry in a country better known for its even-temperedness.
 With a yellow badge proclaiming ''The Netherlands can do better'' pinned to his black fireman's jacket, he joined an antigovernment rally this week to protest plans to have firefighters retire at 65 rather than 55, the current practice.
 Port workers, airport employees, ambulance drivers and tram operators have also taken part in recent strikes and protests as anger has mounted over the government says are necessary moves to make the Dutch economy grow again and to prepare for an aging society.
 The protests will climax on Saturday, when unions expect at least 100,000 people to congregate in Amsterdam in what could be one of the largest antigovernment demonstrations in recent Dutch history.
 The changes the government proposed, and the reaction by unions and workers, are familiar in Europe. Faced with aging populations, creaking health care systems and a swelling tide of red ink, leaders have vowed to cut taxes and spending and to make it harder for people to get jobless and disability benefits.
 What is different in the Netherlands is that the Dutch are not the striking type. In the last decade, 19 days per 1,000 employees on average have been lost to strikes in the Netherlands, less than half the level in the United States.
 Economists say it is a measure of the deep resistance to the changes sought across Europe that even the Dutch are hitting the streets.
 The rightist governing coalition says the traditional Dutch system of collective bargaining and social consensus is not suitable for a more competitive world. ''One of the guiding principles of this cabinet is that people should be more responsible for their own lives,'' said William Lelieveldt, spokesman for the Finance Ministry.
 Angry workers say this is not the ''Dutch way.'' 
 ''The Dutch way is to take care of people who have less,'' said Gerard Admiraal, an emergency services worker who attended a protest on Tuesday. During the 1990's, economists praised the Dutch system of consensus between workers and employers, which was called the Polder model, a reference to the country's low-lying land recovered from the sea -- and an image that evokes the huge collective efforts to build the dikes that keep the sea water away.
 Under the Polder model, the Netherlands was described as an economic miracle in Europe, with unemployment dipping to near 2 percent and economic growth consistently higher than in neighboring countries.
 But two years ago the Dutch economy began to crash. Growth today is below zero and the government is borrowing heavily to pay for its deficit -- which at 3.2 percent of gross domestic product last year violated the rules of the European Union.
 Last week, Finance Minister Gerrit Zalm said the Polder model was no longer appropriate. Among the measures the government is proposing, all of which are subject to a vote of the Dutch Parliament, is a law that would make it no longer mandatory for collective wage pacts to apply to all employees in a given sector. But the move has enraged unions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); TRENDS (87%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (78%); RIOTS (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); MARINE & WATERWAY CONSTRUCTION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); AGING TRENDS (72%); AGING (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); TAX LAW (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (64%); POLITICS (61%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Strikes; Politics and Government; Law and Legislation; Social Conditions and Trends; Demonstrations and Riots

PERSON: Thomas Fuller; William Lelieveldt; Gerard Admiraal

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (92%) NETHERLANDS (96%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%) Netherlands; Netherlands

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



3 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Spending Was Flat And Incomes Rose in August

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Consumer spending stalled and personal incomes rose in August, according to government data released yesterday.
 A separate report showed that first-time unemployment claims rose unexpectedly last week to the highest since February after hurricanes disrupted business in the southeastern United States. In addition, a private report showed faster growth in Chicago-area businesses. 
 Spending was unchanged in August and revised higher to 1.1 percent for July, the strongest month in almost two years, the Commerce Department reported. 
 Disposable income, or the money left over after taxes, increased 0.4 percent in August, after a 0.2 percent rise the previous month. Wages and salaries rose 0.4 percent in August after increasing 0.6 percent in July.
 The personal savings rate was 0.9 percent in August, up from 0.5 percent in July. The indicator weighs current income from wages, salaries, businesses and government payments against spending. It does not account for borrowed money, income from investments or withdrawals from savings.
 Spending on durable goods, including autos, furniture and other long-lasting items, fell 1.1 percent after rising 6.6 percent, adjusted for inflation, the month before. Purchases of nondurable goods, also adjusted for inflation, rose 0.2 percent after rising 0.8 percent. Spending on services, which account for almost 60 percent of all outlays, increased 0.1 percent.
 A drop in auto sales damped spending in August. Purchases of cars and light trucks slowed to 16.6 million in August, compared with 17.2 million a month earlier. The July figures followed readings in June that were the weakest in almost six years.
 Initial jobless claims rose 18,000, to 369,000, the Labor Department said yesterday. Last week's claims were higher than estimates by 38 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The four-week average, a less volatile measure, rose to 343,500 from 341,250. Hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne swept across southern states in the last six weeks.
 Payrolls in August rose by 144,000, the most since May, and the unemployment rate dropped to an almost three-year low of 5.4 percent, the Labor Department reported last month. September payrolls, to be reported next week, are forecast to rise by 155,000, based on the median forecast.
 The National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago said yesterday that its regional index rose to 61.3 last month from 57.3 in August. Readings higher than 50 mean growth, and September was the 17th month of uninterrupted expansion. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists was 58.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (91%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); WEATHER (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANES (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (88%); PERSONAL FINANCE (79%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%) United States Economy; Income; Consumers and Consumption; Labor; Unemployment; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); BLOOMBERG LP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



4 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Up From Politics, Almost; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: A Fallen Party Boss Looks Ahead, but the Past Is Insistent

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
''It don't mean anything to me,'' Stanley M. Friedman said last Monday over lunch and a midday drink at Stanley's, the restaurant he named for himself at the Staten Island Hotel. 
 ''It all went up in smoke when I went up in smoke.''
 It, in this particular case, was politics -- a subject that in days gone by was Mr. Friedman's lifeblood. Former Bronx Democratic leader, convicted felon in a federal corruption case, onetime prison inmate and now the general manager of a 187-room converted Holiday Inn on Richmond Avenue, just off the Staten Island Expressway, Mr. Friedman, 68, has finally freed himself from the seductions of the politician's life, an air he inhaled for more than 30 years with all the relish of his favored Te-Amo Toro cigars. 
 Or almost freed himself. 
 ''It's a spectator sport to me now -- like basketball,'' Mr. Friedman said of politics. Under the gentle proddings of a noontime guest, however, he spent the better portion of the lunch hour talking politics: the presidential race, reform in Albany, the need to return power to an old-time political boss.
 It is only natural for a seasoned politician to feel an itch come autumn, a time when politics drifts through the sunlight like the scent of falling leaves. Politics, like baseball, that other great American game, reaches its apex in the cooler months -- especially in an election year.
 Mr. Friedman says he has felt no quickening of the pulse, no rush of adrenaline, this autumn when it seems that politics is more important than ever. He claims he has no time for the intrigues and complications of electioneering, no taste for grudges or settling old scores.
 There was a time, he joked, when his middle initial, M, stood for arrogant. Now, he has decided, it stands for mature.
 ''I live for today and tomorrow, not yesterday,'' he mused with his Te-Amo bulging like a dry salami from his cheek. ''If you live in the past, you're not going to have much of a future.''
 Still, if someone should be curious about his opinions, Mr. Friedman will gladly pass the afternoon dispensing them. 
 ''What the country wants is strength,'' he said over a chicken salad, ''hold the chicken,'' and a ''drink drink'' -- which, in his case, was a glass of Merlot. 
 ''It's not the economy, stupid. It's not jobs or health care. It's about going to work in the morning, kissing your wife goodbye and knowing that you'll come home safe that night.''
 Hardship, fear, survival: these are subjects Stanley Friedman knows well.
 After reigning over the Democratic Party in the Bronx for nearly a decade, Mr. Friedman was sentenced in 1987 to 12 years in prison on federal charges of promising kickbacks in connection with obtaining contracts from the Parking Violations Bureau for a company that wanted to manufacture hand-held computers. In 1988, he was found guilty of state charges that he bribed a former New York National Guard general in an effort to sell a hand-held computer to the state militia.
 He spent four years, from 1988 to 1992, in a series of federal institutions. At one -- a prison hospital in Springfield, Mo. -- he worked in the laundry, cooked in the kitchen and cared for inmates who were terminally ill with AIDS and cancer. Two men, he said, died in his arms.
 He still refers to his incarceration as a ''sabbatical,'' as in: ''I had lunch with a guy a few weeks after coming home from my sabbatical.'' Under the terms of his sentence, he lost his law license and was barred from re-entering politics. 
 And so in February 1994, with little else to do, Mr. Friedman took a job managing the staff and overseeing weddings and bar mitzvahs at the Staten Island Hotel.
 Here is the current message on his voice mail: ''Hi, this is Stanley Friedman. I can't take your call right now, but please leave your name and phone number so I can call you back. You control what kind of day you have, so make yourself a great day.''
 Staten Island was a second chance for Mr. Friedman. He sits on the executive board of the Staten Island Chamber of Commerce. He is a member of the Staten Island Economic Development Corporation. He joined the Kiwanis Club. He won a Rotary Club award for community service.
 When he received the Alzheimer's Partnership award last year, the evening's program said, ''The Bronx's loss was Staten Island's gain.''
 ''They recognized what I did, the wrong I did, but also recognized it wasn't the regular course of my life,'' Mr. Friedman said.
 ''They gave me a fair chance.
 ''Full acceptance.'' 
 There are still occasions, however, when the past returns like a cancer he had thought was in remission. These occasions are few and far between, but they are painful, Mr. Friedman said, because they remind a man who has committed crimes that he will never quite escape them. 
 In July, Mr. Friedman attended a fund-raising party for Leslie Crocker Snyder, a former judge who is considering a run for Manhattan district attorney. Within days, an article appeared in The New York Post, headlined: ''Unwelcome Ghost of Scandals Past Shows Up at D.A.-Hopeful Bash.''
 ''Friedman's presence raised some eyebrows,'' the story read, ''since Snyder is running as a no-nonsense former judge who took on some of the most serious felons." Stanley Friedman's donation check to Justice Snyder was returned. ''The only good thing to come out of the party,'' he said.
 It just seems that Mr. Friedman cannot escape politics, which follows him like a foul odor wherever he goes. He has resigned himself to living with this fact, as a man lives with a bad tattoo. 
 ''What is politics?'' he asked. ''The church is politics. The synagogue is politics. The hotel is politics. Everything is politics. Politics translates into anything you want.''
 And so as his wine glass slowly emptied and a slice of apple pie appeared, Mr. Friedman delved into politics again, complaining that the Democratic Party, which he once epitomized in the Bronx, had found itself leaderless today.
 ''Lehman, Wagner, Roosevelt -- all these men were created under the quote-unquote archaic boss system,'' he said of the former New York governor, former New York mayor and former president. 
 ''You don't throw the system out because there may have been, present company included, some bad apples.''
 Mr. Friedman still looks every inch the politician. He wears a fine woolen suit with a matching pocket square. His goatee is elegantly salt-and-pepper. His brushed gray hair is touched with flecks of white. 
 ''People say I look a little like De Niro,'' he explained.
 Nor has he lost the politician's touch. 
 As lunch drew to a close, Mr. Friedman made sure his guest understood that he himself understood how the news business, which often slows on the weekends, works.
 ''So,'' he asked, ''which Saturday is this story going to run?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Stanley M. Friedman at Stanley's, his restaurant at the Staten Island Hotel, where an ex-con can make a notable civic life. (Photo by Yoni Brook/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Stanley M. Friedman's philosophy: ''What is politics? The hotel is politics. Everything is politics. Politics translates into anything you want.'' (Photo by Yoni Brook/The New York Times)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); BASEBALL (70%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); CORRUPTION (70%); FELONIES (70%); BASKETBALL (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



5 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Debt Relief Deal For Poor Nations Seems to Be Near

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
The United States and the top international financial institutions indicated on Thursday that they were closing in on an agreement to forgive all the government debts of many of the world's poorest countries.
 Discarding their previous objections, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank gave the green light on Thursday to a British proposal to pay off about $40 billion that the world's poorest nations, most of them in sub-Saharan Africa, owe to the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
 Adding to the momentum for greater debt relief, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said for the first time that the United States would consider 100 percent debt relief when it met with its partners in the Group of 7 wealthiest industrial nations this week.
 These endorsements improve the chances that the international financial institutions and the advanced industrial nations will finally agree on the basic outlines of a proposal for greater debt relief during their annual meetings, which began here on Thursday. Other major countries, particularly Germany and France, still need to endorse the plan before it can be adopted. 
 Eliminating the debts of the countries where most of the world's poorest people live has become a high-profile issue here after several years of mounting pressure from a number of governments, charities and development experts. Those groups argue that the developing world will never climb out of poverty so long as governments must sacrifice programs to educate and to provide health care for their citizens to pay the interest on multibillion-dollar debts incurred by previous leaders.
 The impetus for these latest discussions came from Britain, which on Sunday endorsed the idea that the I.M.F. should revalue its gold reserves to reflect current market prices, using the estimated $32 billion increase on its balance sheet to write off most of the debts of 38 of the world's poorest countries. To complete the job, Britain said that it would pay off 10 percent of the debt out of its own funds and would encourage other rich countries to do something similar.
 When asked what he thought of this gold-based plan, Rodrigo Rato, the new managing director of the I.M.F., said at a news conference, ''It has been done before, and, of course, it could be done again.''
 James D. Wolfensohn, the president of the World Bank and one of the pioneers of debt relief, said at a news conference that he supported the British idea ''wholeheartedly,'' adding that he considered it ''an enormously constructive suggestion.'' 
 This is a turnaround for the two institutions, which essentially rejected the notion of granting 100 percent debt relief three years ago on the grounds that such a policy would be inequitable.
 ''Total debt cancellation for those countries alone would come at the expense of other borrowing countries,'' the institutions concluded in July 2001.
 Mr. Snow's concessions were made in a speech on Thursday before the Bretton Woods Committee, a private group that promotes the I.M.F. and the World Bank.
 ''Grants and debt relief must be significantly increased,'' he said. ''We are considering more options to do so, including those that would provide up to 100 percent debt relief and grants from the international financial institutions.''
 To achieve a final breakthrough, the members of the executive board of the I.M.F., which includes representatives from the United States, European countries, Japan and Canada, must approve the proposal put forward last weekend by Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the exchequer in Britain.
 In announcing his country's pledge to pay 10 percent of the debt owed to the international financial institutions, Mr. Brown challenged other wealthy nations ''to follow suit so that poor countries can look forward to a future free from the shackles of debt.''
 Other European countries support increased debt relief but have argued that it should be paid for by new money not already dedicated to helping poor nations. The British proposal, if adopted by others, could serve to overcome those objections.
 International charities and development agencies applauded the new position by the United States.
 ''With Secretary Snow's very welcome statement,'' said Jamie Drummond, executive director of DATA, a private group promoting debt relief and more open trade for Africa and other developing nations, ''the U.S. publicly joins the historic international and bipartisan consensus bearing down on the goal of canceling all the debts the poorest countries owe the I.M.F. and World Bank.'' 
 African nations paid roughly $15 billion last year in interest on their debt, diverting resources from, among other things, the battle to control the spread of AIDS.
 The World Bank and the I.M.F. started the first program for debt relief in 1996 and some 38 countries have become eligible for the program to date. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); TRENDS (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Third World and Developing Countries; Credit; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Monetary Fund; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: Elizabeth Becker; John W (Sec) Snow

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (70%); GERMANY (55%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



6 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Retiring Minds Want to Know

BYLINE: By Austan Goolsbee. 
Austan Goolsbee is a professor of economics at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business.

DATELINE: Chicago 

 BODY:
Even as I.B.M.'s pension difficulties make headlines the company has agreed to pay current and former employees $320 million to settle some charges that changes to its plan discriminated against older workers -- a more serious financial disaster looms for the pension system. Taxpayers could face an even larger bill from corporations' failure to put enough money into their pension funds.
 Yet neither candidate for president even mentions the problem, and Congress has actually made it worse. The crisis concerns the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the federal agency that insures workers' pensions in case their employer defaults. The agency charges employers a premium for the insurance, and that money is supposed to cover its costs. The system is not supposed to cost taxpayers anything. But a dreadful lack of judgment, coupled with a new federal law, could leave the public with a $100 billion bill. 
 In the past two years, the agency has watched its net financial position deteriorate by $20 billion. Overall, corporate pension plans have some $450 billion less than they need to meet their commitments. While corporations are legally required to make these payments unless they declare bankruptcy and can prove they are under ''severe financial distress,'' as much as $100 billion of this bill is owed by companies that are in financial trouble. Just this month, for example, United and US Airways, both of which are already in bankruptcy, announced plans to renege on their pension requirements.
 Why doesn't the agency have the money to cover this shortfall? Fundamentally, it is an insurance company. Higher risk ought to mean higher prices; a regular sky diver, for example, pays higher life insurance premiums. But the pension agency doesn't work that way.
 The agency's fees are unrelated to investment risk. It charges a fixed amount per corporation and an additional fee based on the amount its pension fund is underfinanced. United had about two-thirds of its pension fund in risky investments, including junk bonds and a Ghanaian gold-mining company. Yet if United had invested every dollar in United States Treasury bonds, it would have paid exactly the same premium to the pension agency.
 Thus corporations have little incentive to invest workers' retirement savings wisely. If a bet wins big, a corporation can add that money to the pension plan and keep the funds it would otherwise have been required to contribute. If it loses big, the government will bail it out. 
 Congress is doing its best to make financial catastrophe more likely. In April, it passed a law that changed accounting rules to make it easier for companies to underfinance pensions. It also gave some companies in the two industries with the worst pension problems -- airlines and steel -- a two-year waiver from the usual requirement that they close their pension gaps with their own money and allowed them to defer some payments.
 Unsurprisingly, they are taking advantage of the opportunity. Continental Airlines, for example, recently announced it would not make a contribution this year to its employees' pension plan. If these corporations declare bankruptcy and default on their pensions, the government bailout will need to be that much larger. According to the pension agency, this law could reduce company contributions by more than $80 billion.
 Congress should not be making it easier for corporations to shirk their pension obligations -- and neither President Bush nor Senator John Kerry should remain silent when they do. (While Mr. Bush signed the bill into law, neither Mr. Kerry nor his running mate, John Edwards, were present the day the bill passed in the Senate.) If Washington were truly concerned about workers, it would ensure that the pension agency remains solvent. One step in the right direction would be to have the agency charge higher premiums for corporations that make risky investments.
 In the meantime, workers with old-style pensions should know that they are at risk of losing a great deal -- a prospect that has become all too real for many employees in the airline industry, who frequently gave up wage increases in part for the promise of more generous pensions. Those pensions will be greatly reduced if the pension agency takes over. 
 It may be too late for many such employees to rescue their pensions. But it's not too late for Congress to act to ensure that employers, not taxpayers, pay more to protect the retirement of working Americans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); INSURANCE (75%); LIFE INSURANCE (75%); BONDS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (75%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); AIRLINES (65%); GOLD MINING (50%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Law and Legislation; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Pensions and Retirement Plans

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (71%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (71%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (71%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: Austan (Prof) Goolsbee; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



7 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; JOURNEYS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: 36 Hours St. Michaels, Md.

BYLINE: By STEVE BAILEY

 BODY:
MIDWAY down Maryland's Eastern Shore, grand estates sit alongside small communities of working watermen, bicyclists share roads with farm tractors and Porsches, and wild white swans glide past sailboats and motor craft from all over the East Coast. Fortunes have been made here, on the ragged peninsula where St. Michaels and its neighboring towns project out into Chesapeake Bay, since the 1600's -- in farming, trade and fishing, and now in tourism and real estate. St. Michaels escaped damage in the War of 1812 by hanging lanterns in trees outside of town, causing the British to overshoot and earning itself the nickname ''the town that fooled the British.'' Now the invaders are weekenders and vacationers. Most of the leisure crowd in the 19th-century clapboard houses come from Baltimore or Washington; one second-home owner is Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld. The traditional economy has been ravaged by parasites attacking the oysters in Chesapeake Bay, but millions are being spent to try to bring the oysters back, and there's never an oyster shortage in the restaurants. STEVE BAILEY

Friday

4 p.m.
1. You Want That Malted?
If you're looking for a crab-themed anything, you'll find it in the shops on Talbot Street, along with T-shirts, garden sculptures and duck decoys. Stop for ice cream at Justine's (106 South Talbot Street, 410-745-5416), where they'll offer to add malt to any milkshake you can think of.

8 p.m.
2. Dinner From the Bay
If you can get a table at 208 Talbot (208 North Talbot Street, 410-745-3838), join the polo-shirt-and-blazer crowd tucking into regional fare like crab cakes ($15) and more extravagant seafood dishes like cassolette of lobster, mussels, clams, shrimp and monkfish ($29.59). On Fridays you may get in without a reservation; Saturdays, when the only option is a popular fixed-price meal ($55) that includes the entire menu, can be impossible.

Saturday

8 a.m.
3. Two Wheels to the Ferry
Get on a bicycle, which can be rented at the St. Michaels Marina (305 Mulberry Street; 410-745-2400; $11 for a half day) and take advantage of roads so level that almost anyone can be a long-distance rider. Stop at Blue Crab Coffee (102 Fremont Street, 410-745-4155) for light breakfast fare -- not that you really need to fortify yourself for the easy one-hour 7.6-mile ride to the Oxford-Bellevue Ferry (410-745-9023). One segment where the road has no shoulder makes up for the deficiency by having very little traffic. For $5 round trip, the ferry (several trips an hour every day during daylight; closed December through February), a service here since 1683, will take you and your bike on the 10-minute crossing of the Tred Avon River to Oxford, a tiny Colonial-era town. After a spin through its serene tree-lined streets, reboard the ferry for the ride back.

Noon
4. Oysters at Harborside
This part of Maryland is known as the Bay Hundred -- the name comes from a Colonial division of Maryland into districts that were each required to support 100 militiamen -- and the Bay Hundred is known for seafood: softshell and hardshell crabs in summer and oysters in the fall and winter. For less than $20, you can have a lunch of oysters steamed, fried, Rockefeller or raw at one of the bustling restaurants clustered on St. Michaels Harbor (a good choice is the Town Dock Restaurant, 125 Mulberry Street, 410-745-5577) while you watch the hundreds of boats bobbing at docks or moored in the Miles River.

1 p.m.
5. The Road to Tilghman
Now drive out of town the other way on Route 33, toward Tilghman Island, about 14 miles away, and keep an eye on the horizon to your right for masts and sails on the open Chesapeake, just beyond the farm fields. Make a stop in Sherwood, one of several almost invisible communities on the way, at Sherwood Antiques (in the Post Office building, 410-886-2562), an old house stuffed with centuries of furniture and furnishings, like a 19th-century Shaker rocker ($1,800) and an unusual 18th-century bench-table ($1,500) that converts from one to the other. Peer down the tree-lined lanes that lead to Georgian-style manor houses, most still private homes.

2 p.m.
6. Commodore's Log
Tilghman Island itself has no manor houses, but it's fast becoming a place for vacationers. Long a working-class community centered around farming and the sea harvest, it lost many of its watermen when the oyster harvest crashed. The old Tilghman can still be seen in the island's venerable skipjacks -- the large sailboats, that are generally the only boats allowed to dredge for oysters in the bay -- based in Dogwood Harbor. Documenting the island's past and present is Gary D. Crawford, above, who with his wife, Susan, owns and operates Crawfords Nautical Books (5782 Main Street, Tilghman, on the right about a mile beyond the bridge, 410-886-2418; www.crawfordsnautical.com). The shop, in a former bank building, has 11,000 or so books, from Mr. Crawford's own works about Tilghman ($5 to $10) to a first edition of Commodore Matthew C. Perry's account of his 1850's trade mission to Japan ($3,400). Tilghman Island Day, an annual seafood festival, is Oct. 16 this year.

3 p.m.
7. The Water Beckons
Get out on the water. Rent a kayak ($25 an hour) or a motorboat ($150 to $225 for up to four hours) at the Tilghman Island Marina (6140 Mariners Court, Tilghman; 410-886-2500). Pass through Knapp's Narrows, the strip of water that makes Tilghman an island, to explore expansive Harris Creek on the east or to begin a circumnavigation of the island, which is about three miles long and one mile wide. Pay attention to channel markers and to the chart that comes with the motorboats -- during low tide some areas off Tilghman are too shallow for any propeller-driven craft. Want to let someone else do the driving? The ketch Lady Patty, the converted Vietnam-era special operations vessel Sharps Island (both berthed near the drawbridge; 410-886-2215) and the 1886 skipjack Rebecca T. Ruark (Dogwood Harbor, 410-886-2176) take passengers on excursions. Watch the skies for always-present osprey and the occasional bald eagle.

6 p.m.
8. The Floating Parade
Stop in at the Tilghman Island Inn (21384 Coopertown Road, Tilghman; 410-886-2141), a club-like 20-room hotel, where a band may be playing at an outdoor bar. Order a beer and watch as one boat after another returns to the narrows for the night. Stick around for dinner prepared by David McCallum, one of the inn's owners as well as its chef. ''Black eye pea cakes'' ($7.25) are a popular appetizer. Rock fish (striped bass from the Chesapeake, a regional favorite; $29.50) is pan-seared and served over lobster and crab.

9 p.m.
9. Grab a Grappa
Perhaps the coziest place to end the day is back in St. Michaels in front of the fireplace at the Purser's Pub at the Inn at Perry Cabin (308 Watkins Lane, 410-745-2200). It was built in 1816, turned into an inn in 1980, purchased by Orient-Express in 1999 and expanded to 81 rooms and suites in 2003. Try one of its 6 grappas ($7 to $15), its 9 ports ($10 to $25) or its 42 Scotches ($9 to $45).

Sunday

10 a.m.
10. Heaven for Boat Lovers
Learn about skipjacks, push boats and bugeyes at the Chesapeake Bay Maritime Museum (Navy Point, St. Michaels; 410-745-2916; admission $10 for adults). An 18-acre harborfront complex, it includes a relocated Chesapeake lighthouse; buildings devoted to oystering, Chesapeake history, steamboats and waterfowl; and a fleet of distinctive bay boats. One of the smaller buildings, a crab shack, has a plaque on its side showing how high the water reached last year when Hurricane Isabelle hit the area. If you start planning your next visit before you leave, keep in mind the museum's apprentice-for-a-day program, which costs $25 and involves spending a Saturday or Sunday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., helping a shipwright restore a classic bay boat or build a new one.

THE BASICS
Visiting St. Michaels
 St. Michaels is about a four-hour drive from New York and about an hour and a half from both Baltimore and Washington, which have the closest major airports.
 The Inn at Perry Cabin (308 Watkins Lane; 410-745-2200) is a sprawling complex -- some parts almost 200 years old -- on the Miles River adjacent to the Chesapeake Bay Maritime Museum. Its 81 rooms and suites are $245 to $625 on weekends.
 In the heart of St. Michaels, the Old Brick Inn Bed & Breakfast (401 South Talbot Street, 410-745-3323) comprises two buildings, one dating to 1816. Its 14 rooms are $115 to $350.
 On Tilghman Island and overlooking Dogwood Harbor and its skipjacks, the Chesapeake Wood Duck Inn (21490 Gibsontown Road at Dogwood Harbor, 410-886-2070) has six rooms and one attached cottage at $149 to $229, including a lavish breakfast.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Steve Bailey/The New York Times)Map of Maryland highlighting St. Michaels and points of interest. (Map drawing by Steven Shukow for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (89%); CYCLING (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CRUSTACEANS (76%); ICE CREAM (70%); RESTAURANTS (66%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Steve Bailey

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (78%) MARYLAND, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Maryland; St Michaels (Md)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



8 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Kissinger Cool to Criticizing Juntas in '76

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
In June 1976, three months after the military seized power in Buenos Aires, Henry A. Kissinger, then secretary of state, learned that the American ambassador, Robert C. Hill, had just cautioned the country's new government over its wholesale violations of human rights. Mr. Kissinger was unhappy with the warning.
 ''In what way is it compatible with my policy?'' he asked his top official for Latin America, Harry W. Shlaudeman.
 ''It is not,'' Mr. Shlaudeman replied. 
 ''How did it happen?'' Mr. Kissinger asked.
 ''I will make sure it doesn't happen again,'' Mr. Shlaudeman promised.
 ''If that doesn't happen again, something else will,'' Mr. Kissinger persisted and then asked who had given the ambassador the instruction to lodge his complaint. ''I want to know who did this and consider having him transferred.''
 The exchange comes from 3,216 transcripts of telephone conversations, released some 27 years after Mr. Kissinger stepped down as secretary of state in 1977. The transcripts, obtained by the nonprofit National Security Archive, appear to document in the most explicit fashion yet a reluctance on the part of Mr. Kissinger to criticize directly the military governments in Chile and Argentina, and a behind-the-scenes hostility toward forceful demands from United States diplomats that the dictators uphold civil liberties and human rights as they eliminated leftist insurgents and, more broadly, political opponents.
 Mr. Kissinger was traveling and could not be reached for comment, said Jesse Incao, an assistant in his office.
 Mr. Shlaudeman was also traveling, and could not be reached, said his wife, Carol.
 Earlier documents have shown the former secretary of state discussing human rights with Chilean and Argentine officials, but largely as an issue that left them vulnerable to undeserved criticism, from Congress and the American public, and complicated American support. They also showed him complaining to junta leaders about the concern for human rights among American diplomats working on Latin America, quipping at one point that the State Department attracted people with a vocation for the ministry, not statecraft.
 Tom Blanton, director of the National Security Archive, said such overtures could conceivably suggest a delicacy by Mr. Kissinger in tackling a tough subject. But the newly released phone transcripts ''show Kissinger ranting and railing inside his own department, to his own top aides, against any diplomacy that attempted to press human rights concerns,'' he said.
 In his previous writings and remarks, Mr. Kissinger has spoken little about human rights in Latin America, except to say he discussed the subject at a June 1976 meeting with Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the Chilean leader. A Kissinger friend and associate, William D. Rogers, has publicly defended Mr. Kissinger as more and more documents have emerged raising questions about his stewardship during the years of military dictatorship in Latin America.
 ''Henry, like everybody, has reactions from time to time,'' Mr. Rogers said in an interview. ''To read into this some great sympathy with human rights violators borders on the preposterous.''
 Mr. Rogers has maintained that Mr. Kissinger pressed the issue of human rights, most notably at a June 1976 speech before the Organization of American States in Santiago, Chile, and that his former boss never signaled any acceptance of repression and torture in Latin America. Mr. Rogers served as assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs and under secretary for economic affairs under Mr. Kissinger, and is a vice chairman of Kissinger Associates, the consulting firm.
 Mr. Kissinger initially handed over the transcripts of his phone conversations as secretary of state in August 2001, after Mr. Blanton's group prepared, but did not file, a lawsuit demanding their release and then submitted a Freedom of Information Act request. Some 1,900 more transcripts, which include conversations with George H.W. Bush, who was then director of central intelligence, have not been released.
 The transcripts show Mr. Kissinger growing similarly enraged by Robert E. White, then deputy ambassador to the Organization of American States, also in June 1976. The Washington Post had just reported that Mr. White had made a passionate defense of an O.A.S. report on human rights that criticized Chile and which the Chileans had rejected.
 In the transcript of the conversation with Mr. Rogers, Mr. Kissinger says Mr. White has ''lashed out at the Chileans down there.''
 ''I think I have made it very clear what my strategy is,'' Mr. Kissinger says. ''I have not become a super liberal. This is not an institution that is going to humiliate the Chileans.''
 ''It is a bloody outrage,'' he adds. ''Why don't we get him out?''
 Mr. White, who is now president of the Center for International Policy, a Washington-based advocacy group, was reprimanded for ''criticizing or passing judgment on the internal political systems of other countries.'' In an interview, Mr. White said he had threatened to quit unless the reprimand was withdrawn. The next day, it was, and he received a commendation instead.
 At the time, Mr. White said, he was unaware that Mr. Kissinger had signaled his sympathy in a meeting with General Pinochet just days earlier, in which the secretary of state warned that he would have to raise the issue of human rights in the speech he was about to give to the O.A.S., but said he believed Chile was being unfairly criticized over the issue.
 Mr. White said he had never been advised of Mr. Kissinger's conversation with General Pinochet. ''If Rogers had said, 'Soft-pedal human rights,' of course I would have done it,'' Mr. White said. ''I'm an instructed delegate.''
 In an interview, Mr. Rogers accepted blame. He said, however, that Mr. Kissinger did not want diplomats to soft-pedal human rights, but to refrain from direct, public criticism of American allies. ''I was probably indulging in my own more energetic and aggressive attitude toward the issue than some others,'' he said.
 Mr. Rogers, who comes across in the documents as quietly advocating human rights in his contacts with Mr. Kissinger, said his boss ''was persuaded to lower the boom at the O.A.S. meeting in Santiago'' by addressing human rights, though his speech was ''heavily nuanced,'' and refrained from open and direct criticism of Chile.
 ''He didn't want to do it in a way that would be offensive and insulting, and create a backlash,'' Mr. Rogers said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); TRANSCRIPTS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); POLITICS (64%) United States International Relations; Freedom and Human Rights; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Politics and Government; United States Foreign Service

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (59%) Organization of American States; National Security Archive; State Department

PERSON: Diana Jean Schemo; Henry A (Dr) Kissinger; Robert C Hill; Robert E White

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); CHILE (94%); ARGENTINA (92%) Latin America; Chile; Latin America; Argentina

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



9 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Congress May Close Billion-Dollar Loan Loophole

BYLINE: By GREG WINTER

 BODY:
The secretary of education called on senior members of Congress yesterday to close a loophole that has allowed student loan companies to collect more than a billion dollars in excess federal subsidies, saying he lacked the authority to stop the escalating payments anytime soon. 
 With days remaining before a possible recess, Democrats and Republicans introduced legislation in the House and Senate yesterday to cut off the subsidies on all new loans, proposing to use the money in ways that directly benefit students instead. 
 Democrats proposed ending the subsidies permanently and rolling the savings into federal grants for low-income college students. 
 The Republican plan would end the subsidies for a year, while Congress wrestles with the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, using the savings to expand loan forgiveness for math, science and special education teachers who commit to working in impoverished schools. 
 Some members of Congress continued to call upon the Bush administration to end the subsidies immediately, a power that the Government Accountability Office has said the Education Department clearly has. But in a letter to Republican leaders, Rod Paige, the education secretary, rebutted that contention, saying that Congressional action offered ''the most direct and expeditious'' path to closing the loophole.
 Just how expeditiously Congress can act is still unclear. While all parties in the debate -- including the student loan companies themselves -- agree that the payments should be curtailed, an atmosphere of partisanship and recrimination has permeated many of the legislative efforts to do so. 
 Though the House passed an amendment to address at least part of the issue early last month almost unanimously, other efforts have been squashed or stalled, at times by the very lawmakers proposing legislation yesterday.
 Nonetheless, Democrats and Republicans alike said that the magnitude of the payments was so great that they expected to cooperate. Senate staff members said they expected negotiations to begin immediately, and some Democrats in the House said they would support Republican legislation, increasing the chance that Congress will act before adjourning. 
 The subsidies in question began in the 1980's when some lenders, particularly states and nonprofit organizations, were granted fixed interest rates of 9.5 percent. 
 Congress eliminated the guarantee by 1993, eventually moving to a system that is more closely tied to the market, but it allowed some lenders to keep collecting the higher interest rates from the government on money they had already raised -- a potential windfall in a market in which students are paying less than 3.4 percent in interest on their loans. 
 Moreover, some of the lenders who originally qualified for the guarantee have been converted into, or have been subsumed by, commercial companies, putting greater emphasis on the search for profits. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%) Colleges and Universities; Credit; Student Loans; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: Greg Winter; Roderick R (Sec) Paige

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



10 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 2313 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy movies playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film. Ratings and running times are in parentheses.

Now Playing

''THE BROWN BUNNY,'' starring Vincent Gallo and Chloe Sevigny. Written and directed by Mr. Gallo (not rated, 92 minutes). Neither an atrocity nor a revelation, ''The Brown Bunny'' is a very watchable, often beautiful-looking attempt by Mr. Gallo to reproduce the kind of loosely structured mood pieces that found American and select foreign-language cinema of the 1960's and 70's often at its most adventurous, with Monte Hellman's 1971 ''Two-Lane Blacktop'' the most obvious touchstone. Mr. Gallo plays Bud Clay, a motorcycle racer (and the title's symbolic bunny) on his way back home to Los Angeles from a New Hampshire meet. As Bud racks up miles, he stares moodily at the road, visits a childhood haunt, eats a lonely meal, sleeps a lonely motel sleep, takes his motorcycle for a spin and exchanges small talk with a few women, who all have the soft, bruised look of chronic disappointment. Eventually Bud hits Los Angeles, where he checks into a hotel, and where yet another flower of femininity, Ms. Sevigny's Daisy, gives the film its back story and furnishes what the porn industry calls, in rather more direct language, its economic raison d'etre (Manohla Dargis).

* ''CELLULAR,'' starring Kim Basinger, Chris Evans and William H. Macy. Directed by David R. Ellis (PG-13, 89 minutes). In this improbable, improbably entertaining action thriller, a Los Angeles science teacher (Ms. Basinger) is kidnapped by a squad of baddies, who lock her in an attic with a telephone that works just well enough for her to connect, at random, with the cellphone of a surfer (Mr. Evans), who spends the rest of the movie trying to rescue her. In an age of self-important, bloated blockbusters, this movie, directed with breeziness and rigor by Mr. Ellis, is a refreshing rarity: an honest, unpretentious B picture, with enough decent jokes, crackerjack car chases and plot convolutions to make the price of the ticket seem like a reasonable bargain. Mr. Macy adds a wry, touching note as the weary L.A.P.D. veteran who helps the surfer in his effort to save the science teacher (A. O. Scott).

* ''COLLATERAL,'' starring Tom Cruise and Jamie Foxx. Directed by Michael Mann (R, 115 minutes). In this edgy new thriller from Mr. Mann, the city never sleeps; it doesn't even relax. Set in Los Angeles mostly after dark, after the sunshine has given way to cool noir, the story centers on a taxi driver, Max (Mr. Foxx), and the assassin, Vincent (Mr. Cruise), who hops a ride with him deep into the night. Pitched between interludes of anxious intimacy and equally nerve-shredding set pieces, ''Collateral'' scores its points with underhand precision. The film is about a lot of different things, about how Los Angeles lights up even at night, how cars become prostheses of ourselves and how driving with the radio on can be bliss. But as with all of Mr. Mann's movies, ''Collateral'' is finally about men and work, and about how being a man is itself a kind of job, which explains why this fastidiously made commercial film isn't just an entertainment, but a statement of personal faith (Dargis).

''CRIMINAL,'' starring John C. Reilly, Diego Luna and Maggie Gyllenhaal. Directed by Gregory Jacobs (R, 87 minutes). Mr. Reilly may be one of our finer character actors, but his portrayal in ''Criminal'' of a gimlet-eyed con man allows too many vestiges of the duped schlub of a husband he played in ''Chicago'' to leak into his performance. The Mametesque film has strong supporting performances by Mr. Luna, as Mr. Reilly's not-so-naive protege in swindling, and Ms. Gyllenhaal, as Mr. Reilly's angry sister. The film, a fairly faithful adaptation of the Argentine director Fabian Bielinski's ''Nine Queens,'' is a clever and diverting caper, relocated from South America to Los Angeles. Instead of rare stamps being pursued by assorted grifters and counterfeiters, the priceless fetish being sought is the counterfeit of an 1878 Monroe silver certificate. Mr. Mamet covered roughly the same territory with far more zest and cunning in ''House of Games,'' a movie that unlike ''Criminal'' leaves you with the uneasy sense of living in a world run by diabolically clever thieves gloating over the naivete of suckers like you and me (Stephen Holden).

''A DIRTY SHAME,'' starring Tracey Ullman and Johnny Knoxville. Written and directed by John Waters (NC-17, 89 minutes). A crashing bore is more like it. Mr. Waters's latest movie once again pits unruly, life-affirming sex maniacs against uptight prudes, here known as neuters. The line between them is blurry: the heroine, Sylvia Stickles (Ms. Ullman), starts out as a repressed suburban mother and, after suffering a concussion, goes on a libidinous rampage. She joins a sex-addict cult (led by Mr. Knoxville), which is devoted to discovering a hitherto undreamed-of kink that will unlock the erotic secrets of the universe. The movie, an anarchic catalog of perversions, sounds like more fun than it is, but Mr. Waters, after more than 35 years of moviemaking, remains a determined amateur, with little interest in acting, storytelling or visual creativity. If his jokes were still funny or his attitudes still provocative, the crudeness of the picture would be less bothersome, but the net effect of all the energetic naughtiness is like that of being in a room full of 8-year-old boys who have just learned some new swear words (Scott).

''THE FORGOTTEN,'' starring Julianne Moore, Dominic West and Gary Sinise. Directed by Joseph Ruben (PG-13, 100 minutes). In this preposterous thriller, a pseudo-spiritual, mumbo-jumbo, science-fiction inflected mess, Mr. Ruben does not just fail to tap into the talent of his luminous star, Ms. Moore; he barely gets her attention. As Telly, a Brooklyn mother in mourning, Ms. Moore delivers a performance that has all the emotional commitment of a bored kid playing with a light switch. Even after Telly discovers that all the images of her dead son have been erased from the photographs scattered around her home, Ms. Moore keeps flipping the switch: sad, not sad, sad, not sad. Initially, the disappearing images are explained away by Telly's creepy psychiatrist, Dr. Munce (Mr. Sinise), who insists that the boy never existed and that after suffering a miscarriage, she invented the boy out of thin air. Telly finds this hard to believe (she isn't the only one) and embarks on a Search for the Truth involving cheap thrills, emotional uplift and some nonsense about the eternal mother (Dargis).

* ''GHOST IN THE SHELL 2: INNOCENCE,'' with the voices of Akio Otsuka and Atsuko Tanaka. Directed by Mamoru Oshii (PG-13, 99 minutes; in Japanese, with English subtitles). Androids don't dream of electric sheep in Mr. Oshii's hallucinatory meditation on life in the shadow of the machine world. They dream of suicide, an unlikely act of violence that one android or ''gynoid,'' a sexual pet with a tragic face and luridly flexible limbs, commits by clawing at its synthetic skin as if it were a grieving widow. This movie is a sequel to the Japanese filmmaker's 1995 anime, ''Ghost in the Shell,'' about a female detective who inhabits and then loses her artificial body. Set in 2032, the new anime centers on her former colleague, the stone-faced cyborg Batou, a male cop in a future-shock world where sex dolls commit virtual seppuku against a swirl of film-noir intrigue, philosophical speculation, eye-popping images and serious science-fiction cool, and where machines often seem more human their human masters (Dargis).

* ''THE MOTORCYCLE DIARIES,'' starring Gael Garcia Bernal and Rodrigo de la Serna. Directed by Walter Salles (R, 126 minutes; in Spanish, with English subtitles). In 1952, Alberto Granado, a 29-year-old chemist, and his pal Ernesto Guevara, a 23-year-old medical student, set out from Buenos Aires to explore South America. Their journey might have vanished into private recollection were it not for the fact that Ernesto went on to become Che, political idol, revolutionary martyr and pillar of the T-shirt industry. Mr. Salles's film, based on Granado and Guevara's notebooks, is partly a political coming-of-age story in which Ernesto (Mr. Bernal) awakens to the injustice that plagues the continent. But the movie is also a rambunctious buddy picture (thanks in part to Mr. de la Serna's high-spirited portrayal of the Falstaffian Granado), a breathtaking travelogue and an unusual love story. The love in question is Ernesto's sensual and spiritual connection to the continent itself, beautifully communicated through Eric Gautier's sublime cinematography. Mr. Bernal's soulful performance is sure to enhance his reputation as one of the most magnetic young actors around, but the real stars of the movie are the rugged Chilean highlands, the peaks of the Andes and the misty banks of the Peruvian Amazon (Scott).

* ''RED LIGHTS,'' starring Jean-Pierre Darroussin and Carole Bouquet. Directed by Cedric Kahn (not rated, 106 minutes; in French with English subtitles). This brilliant, sinister French thriller is a twisty road movie in which every sign points toward catastrophe. As night falls during the journey of an unhappily married couple from Paris to Bordeaux, the clogged highway takes them into descending levels of psychosexual hell. Mr. Darroussin's Antoine is a mousy, balding insurance salesman who hates his job and resents his more successful wife, a sleek corporate lawyer. The movie is a study of male passive aggression that comes up with a malicious Hemingwayesque solution to Antoine's masculinity crisis. When his wife, fed up with his drinking on the road, deserts him to take the train, he picks up a hitchhiker he knows may be a dangerous escaped convict and courts the redemptive (and grisly) male rite of passage he's been seeking. Following Jean-Luc Godard's ''Weekend'' and Claire Denis's ''Friday Night,'' ''Red Lights'' uses the traffic jam as a potent screen metaphor for something bigger (Holden).

''SKY CAPTAIN AND THE WORLD OF TOMORROW,'' starring Jude Law, Gwyneth Paltrow, Angelina Jolie and Giovanni Ribisi. Written and directed by Kerry Conran (PG, 107 minutes). In this movie's elegant murk, Mr. Law and Ms. Paltrow slip into comic-book archetypes of the dashing aviator and the intrepid girl reporter with supreme confidence. But can the movie establish a swashbuckling franchise as commercially potent as the Indiana Jones movies? When Mr. Conran's remarkable filmmaking debut remembers that storytelling and characters matter more than design and special effects, the movie charms as well as impresses. If nothing else, it is a landmark of computer-generated images whose actors cavort through an entirely synthetic, retro-styled future world that fuses Art Deco, Futurism, Fritz Lang's ''Metropolis'' and the spirit of the 1939 World's Fair into an all-purpose eve-of-World War II environment extrapolated into a science-fiction limbo. But its visual elegance comes at a price. Its ethereal evocation of a pulp-fiction future-past eclipses almost any other sci-fi franchise in subtlety and imagination, but shadowy washed-out color is a far cry from the robust hues of a movie like ''Raiders of the Lost Ark.'' At times, it's hard to see what's on the screen (Holden).

''VANITY FAIR,'' starring Reese Witherspoon, Eileen Atkins, Jim Broadbent, Gabriel Byrne, Romola Garai and James Purefoy. Directed by Mira Nair (PG-13, 141 minutes). Her eyes snapping like tiny firecrackers, Ms. Witherspoon makes an appealingly crafty Becky Sharp in Ms. Nair's bland but color-drenched screen adaptation of William Makepeace Thackeray's 1848 novel. The star, as usual, conveys a bristly, determined spunk. But if her performance emits enough sparks to hold the screen, it never ignites a dramatic brush fire. You long for more Scarlett O'Hara and less Elle Woods. Her Becky comes across as a lightweight schemer about as formidable as an aspiring trophy wife on a daytime soap. In compressing a novel that spans three decades of the early 19th century, the movie becomes increasingly hurried and eventually loses track of time, and in trying to mix satire and romance, it proves once again that the two are about as compatible as lemon juice and heavy cream. It flashes to comic life in those scenes that convey Thackeray's disdain for the preening foolishness and snobbery of early 19th-century English society and the crass symbiotic relationship between money and aristocracy. Then, as now, you could buy your way to the top (Holden).

''WIMBLEDON,'' starring Kirsten Dunst and Paul Bettany. Directed by Richard Loncraine (PG-13, 100 minutes). Will pregame sexual high jinks give you the edge you need to win at tennis? Or will they distract you from mobilizing the killer instinct necessary to blast through to victory? That's the earth-shattering question at the heart of ''Wimbledon,'' a likable, formulaic sports movie that follows the miraculous comeback of an insecure 31-year-old British tennis pro named Peter (Mr. Bettany), whose career resurrects on the wings of love. At Wimbledon, where he's playing his final professional matches, he meets and falls in love with Lizzie, a super-competitive American pro (Ms. Dunst) on the fast track to the women's championship. She appears unstoppable until Peter enters her life. The moment her defenses start to crumble, her concentration falters. As the trajectories of their careers reverse, Peter credits Lizzie with spurring his triumphs, while she bitterly blames him for her fall from grace. The film's most refreshing idea is to present a male sports hero who doesn't see himself primarily as an invincible fighting machine. He is courtly, witty, sensitive and apologetic to a fault (Holden).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Traveling with Che: Gael Garcia Bernal and Rodrigo de la Serna in ''The Motorcycle Diaries.'' (Photo by Paula Prandini/Focus Features)
 She doesn't see dead people: Julianne Moore with Dominic West in ''The Forgotten.'' (Photo by Barry Wetcher/Sony Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (62%); PORNOGRAPHY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



11 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: European Budget Games: Why Paris Can Seem to Act Like Albany

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
NO tourist would confuse Paris with Albany, or Berlin with Sacramento. But more and more European countries seem to be acting like American states.
 Consider government budgets. Normal countries run deficits to the extent they wish. There may be external limits from financial markets, but if there are willing lenders a country can spend whatever its government wants. 
 Supposedly, that is not true for states. Most are required by their constitutions to have balanced budgets. In practice, that often means that they use assorted tricks to cover up deficits. 
 So it is now in Europe, where countries in the euro zone have promised to keep their budget deficits under 3 percent of gross domestic product. 
 Germany, which insisted on such a rule, is leading the way in pushing for a weakening of it, and in the meantime keeps postponing when it will comply. This week, Hans Eichel, the German finance minister, announced plans for new borrowing and said the 2004 budget deficit would come in at 3.7 percent of G.D.P. This will then be the third consecutive year Germany has violated the rule. ''It wouldn't be economically responsible'' to cut spending, Mr. Eichel said.
 In France, the determination to spend is similar, but the tactics being used would be quite familiar in many a state capital. The government owns the major electric and gas utilities, which face huge pension bills. You might think that would harm the budget, but France has a better idea.
 The two utilities will transfer part of their pension obligations to the government, thus making them more attractive to investors. They will pay the government at least 7 billion euros to take on the obligations -- and that money will count as revenue for measuring the budget deficit. It is a neat trick to balance a national budget by taking on additional obligations.
 Budget rules are not the only ones to be slid around in the new Europe. Brussels has limits on government aid to companies, but Italy still managed to rescue Alitalia, and the Euro Disney restructuring plan was saved this week by a French state-owned financial institution obligingly forgiving 20 million euros in loans.
 The similarity between states and European countries is not a coincidence. European governments are now in a transition not unlike the one the American states went through in the years before and shortly after the Constitution was adopted. 
 The proposed European constitution is awaiting ratification by member states, and it is widely expected that will not be easy. But ratification of the United States Constitution was also a close thing and state power faded slowly.
 In his forthcoming book on the Erie Canal, ''Wedding of the Waters,'' Peter L. Bernstein notes that the man most responsible for getting the canal built -- and thereby integrating the economies of what are now the Eastern and Midwestern states -- was DeWitt Clinton. In 1811, more than two decades after the Constitution was adopted, Clinton faced the choice of two jobs: United States senator or lieutenant governor of New York. He chose the latter. ''The states were where the action was,'' Mr. Bernstein writes.
 Establishing the new power relationships within Brussels and between the European Union and the 25 member countries is taking time and diverting a lot of attention from other things, which may help to explain Europe's difficulty in adjusting to the changing world economy.
 But the process of making European countries more like states is under way, and seems likely to continue unless the proposed constitution is decisively rejected by several countries. Some of those who wrote the American constitution believed they were leaving most of the power with the states, but that is not how the story ended.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the national budget deficits for France and Germany as a percentage of gross domestic product from 2001 to 2004* estimated figures. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EURO (89%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (75%); EURO ZONE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%) Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Constitutions; States (US)

COMPANY: EURO DISNEY SCA (52%)

TICKER: EDL (PAR) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (52%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (52%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (79%); ITALY (79%) Europe; Germany; France; Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



12 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1624 words

HEADLINE: A Vast Arms Buildup, Yet Not Enough for Wars

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

 BODY:
Amid one of the greatest military spending increases in history, the Pentagon is starved for cash.
 The United States will spend more than $500 billion on national security in the year beginning today. That represents a high-water mark, and it is creating boom times in the armaments industry.
 Yet the military says it has run $1 billion a month short over the last year paying for the basics of war fighting in Iraq: troops, equipment, spare parts and training.
 The disparity between spending on the arsenals of the future and the armies of today is great, and growing. 
 The Pentagon will spend $144 billion in the coming year researching and building weapons for future wars, another record and twice the annual costs of wars in Iraq and Afghanistan by most independent estimates.
 The Pentagon says it has 77 major weapons programs under development. They include the $200 billion Joint Strike Fighter project, a fleet of next-generation aircraft; a $112 billion Army program to create networks of weapons and communications systems; and an experimental Navy destroyer, the world's first $10 billion warship.
 Those 77 arms systems have a collective price tag of $1.3 trillion. That is nearly twice what they were supposed to cost, and 11 times the yearly bill for operating and maintaining the American military.
 The spike in weapons spending is a bonanza for the nation's armaments contractors, almost all of which report surging profits and soaring stock prices.
 The shares of Lockheed Martin, the nation's largest military contractor, have more than tripled since their low in early 2000; Northrop Grumman's are up some 165 percent. 
 Since the beginning of 2001, prime Pentagon contracts awarded to the top 10 arms makers have nearly doubled, to $82.3 billion in 2003. Lockheed's sales have risen over that period to $31.8 billion from $24 billion; Northrop's are up to $26.2 billion from $13 billion.
 A Lockheed Martin spokesman, Thomas Jurkowsky, said the company's success since 2000 came from the ''changed geopolitical landscape,'' in which Lockheed helped the Pentagon ''meet the demands that have been placed on it by providing a broad range of advanced technologies and capabilities.''
 The rise in Pentagon spending is the greatest in 20 years, nearly matching the buildup that President Ronald Reagan initiated in the early 1980's. Spending went up $100 billion (about $170 billion in today's dollars) during Mr. Reagan's first term, to $276 billion (or $464 billion today). It started rising sharply again in 1999 and has increased $148 billion since then, not counting the costs of war.
 But when it comes to fighting the wars, the money has not flowed as freely.
 In 1999, while running for president, George W. Bush proposed a new direction for national defense -- away from an industrial era of cold war planes, tanks and ships, toward an information era of wired, speedier, stealthier forces.
 ''I will defend the American people against missiles and terror,'' he said then. ''I will begin creating the military of the next century.''
 The arms industry gave nearly $9 million to Republican candidates in 2000, twice as much as to Democrats, expecting that Republicans would significantly increase Pentagon spending. The stock market value of military contractors began rising that year.
 ''As the public and investors became aware that Bush had a good chance of becoming president, defense stocks began going up right away,'' said Paul Nisbet of JSA Research in Newport, R.I., who has analyzed the industry for 30 years. ''It looked very much like the situation when Reagan came in.''
 But President Bush and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld soon faced a quandary. ''There is no question that we probably cannot afford every weapon system'' in development, Mr. Bush said in August 2001. ''This administration is going to have to winnow them down.''
 Would they rebuild the arsenal they had, or skip forward to the next generation of weapons?
 ''On Sept. 10, 2001, Rumsfeld faced a totally invidious choice,'' said Gordon Adams, who oversaw national security spending at the Office of Management and Budget under President Bill Clinton.
 ''He had to choose between the present and the future, and he knew it,'' Mr. Adams said. ''The Pentagon planning system was in a crunch. The budget was in severe stress.''
 But overnight the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 ''completely changed the planning horizon for defense,'' Mr. Adams said, adding: ''The floodgates opened. Everything was a priority.''
 For the coming year, the Pentagon will spend at least $420 billion, not counting the costs of combat in Iraq and Afghanistan -- which will run at least $72 billion and probably more, according to Congressional staff members.
 Adding $32 billion for homeland security, the bottom line comes to $524 billion. Apart from the mandatory bills for Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security and other payments to individuals, that exceeds the combined cost of running the rest of the federal government. 
 The accelerating pace of arms spending is unlikely to slow noticeably no matter who wins the election on Nov. 2. President Bush supports all 77 major weapons systems now under development; Senator John Kerry has said he would cut back on one, missile defense, which costs $10 billion a year, and use the money for more troops.
 Why is there plenty of money available for the weapons of the future, but not enough for the troops at war today? Because, military experts say, one thing did not change after 9/11 -- the way the Pentagon and Congress pay for wars.
 ''We pay for war with supplementals,'' or special requests to Congress, said Lt. Col. Rose-Ann Lynch, a Pentagon public affairs officer. ''We do not budget for war. That's the way we do it, and that's the way we've been doing it for years.''
 Despite the record increases in weapons spending, the military, according to the Government Accountability Office, the budget watchdog of Congress, still faced shortfalls of more than $12 billion over the last year for the myriad nuts and bolts of war: supporting troops, buying spare parts and maintaining equipment.
 The Army reported the greatest gaps. It estimated this summer that it would run $10.2 billion short in its operations and maintenance accounts in the fiscal year that ended yesterday. 
 At least $8 billion of this reflected the basic needs of soldiers at war in Iraq, like refurbishing and maintaining equipment, the G.A.O. reported. The military is trying to cover these costs by reducing training for troops and deferring equipment maintenance, both of which cut into military readiness.
 The Pentagon has consistently understated the costs of combat. ''The cost of operating in Iraq has clearly exceeded the original estimates,'' said Dov S. Zakheim, the Pentagon's comptroller and chief financial officer from April 2001 to May 2004. ''The number of troops have gone up. We originally estimated some kind of steady state, a leveling off, maybe even a dropping off of forces.''
 When the war-fighting money runs dry, the Pentagon taps into operations accounts and seeks tens of billions in ''emergency'' funds, spending them as fast as they are approved by Congress, sometimes faster.
 ''The military has been underreporting the actual costs of war in Iraq,'' said Mr. Adams, now director of security policy studies at George Washington University's Elliott School of International Affairs. As a consequence, he added, the Pentagon is led to ''raiding the operations and maintenance accounts -- which is mortgaging the future.'' 
 The war in Iraq started before the White House sought money to pay for it, and its financing has been patched together on the run, said Winslow T. Wheeler, who spent 31 years as a military spending analyst for Republican and Democratic senators.
 When the war began, ''the president had failed to ask for money to fund it,'' he said. ''To go to war, we canceled training, slowed down equipment maintenance -- just the kind of thing you want to be goosing up'' in wartime. 
 But back home, Congress continues to enjoy the political perquisites commonly known as ''pork,'' taking billions from the Pentagon for pet projects.
 ''The way Congress pays for this is by raiding other accounts, specifically for military training, spare parts and maintenance,'' said Mr. Wheeler, whose new book, ''The Wastrels of Defense'' (Naval Institute Press), will be published in October.
 Mr. Zakheim, the former Pentagon comptroller, agreed that the ''cultural traditions'' of Capitol Hill include underfinancing, paying for the rest by shifting money from the Pentagon's operating accounts. ''Congress,'' he added, ''has not done away with that culture'' since 9/11.
 The result is an army scraping for spare parts and combat-ready equipment while Pentagon officials continue to pour money into futuristic new weapons and the accounts of military contractors building them.
 The Pentagon's budget, in actual outlays, is now nearly 10 times as great as any other nation's. The American arsenal can overwhelm just about any opponent in a conventional war, as it did in vanquishing the Iraqi army and toppling Saddam Hussein. But whether it holds the right mixture of weapons for fighting long-term battles with the enemy of today looks much more questionable.
 The Pentagon soon may be forced to rethink its priorities for both weapons and spending, said Loren Thompson, chief operating officer of the Lexington Institute, a nonpartisan research group in Arlington, Va.
 ''It's harder to justify high-tech weapons,'' he said, ''when we seem unable to defeat an adversary fighting with low-tech weapons and relatively primitive insurgent tactics.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Navy officers formally introduced a new version of the Tomahawk cruise missile at a Pentagon ceremony on Wednesday. Technologically advanced weapons systems reflect, according to one contractor, a ''changed geopolitical landscape'' since 2000. (Photo by Daniel J. McLain/U.S. Navy)(pg. C1)
(Photo by U.S. Army)(pg. C2)Chart: ''Budgets, Bombers and Balances''The Department of Defense has more than 75 major weapons programs under development, included in a national security budget that will total more than $500 billion. Below is a look at some of those Pentagon programs, and how they compare with other spending.Comparisons of selected civilian and military costs -- In billionsNew York City's budget in 2005: $47.9B-2 bomber program: $44.4Current U.S. Department of Education's budget: 6330 Virginia-class submarines: 64Projected sales of consumer electronics in U.S., 2004: 101Army future combat systems: 112Growth in U.S. budget deficit since January: 119Iraq war to date: 119Total cost of Medicaid in 2002: 258F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program: 200Direct cost of the Vietnam War: 584Pentagon's projected budget in '14: 572Discretionary spending . . .Excluding Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, and other entitlementsGraph tracks the national security spending and all other spending since 1975.. . . as a percentage of gross domestic productGraph tracks national security spending as a percentage of gross domestic product since 1975.(Sources by Congressional Budget Office
Office of Management and Budget
Department of Defense
Consumer Electronics Association [electronics sales])
 (Chart by Macaulay Campbell/The New York Times)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); DEFENSE SPENDING (92%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); ARMIES (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (88%); SALES FIGURES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); CONTRACT AWARDS (69%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (60%) United States Armament and Defense; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Missiles and Missile Defense Systems; Cruise Missile; Tomahawk (Missile); Defense Contracts; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (71%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); US NAVY (59%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (71%); NOC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (54%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (54%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (61%) Tim Weiner

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) United States; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



13 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1660 words

HEADLINE: With Russia's Nod, Treaty on Emissions Clears Last Hurdle

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS and ANDREW C. REVKIN; Seth Mydans reported from Moscow for this article, and Andrew C. Revkin from Washington.

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
The long-delayed Kyoto Protocol on global warming overcame its last critical hurdle to taking effect around the world on Thursday when Russia's cabinet endorsed the treaty and sent it to Parliament. The treaty, the first to require cuts in emissions linked to global warming, would take effect 90 days after Parliament's approval, a formality that was widely expected. 
 The United States has rejected the treaty and will not be bound by its restrictions. But the treaty, which has already been ratified by 120 countries will take effect if supporters include nations accounting for at least 55 percent of all industrialized countries' 1990-level emissions. The only way for it to cross that threshold was with ratification by Russia. In 1990, the United States accounted for 36.1 percent of emissions from industrialized countries, and Russia 17.4 percent.
 The protocol was dormant over the last two years as Russia considered its merits and sought concessions from the European Union, the treaty's main proponent. 
 The treaty is widely considered a milestone of international environmental diplomacy. It is the first agreement that sets binding restrictions on emissions of heat-trapping gases that, for now, remain an unavoidable result of almost any facet of modern life, including driving a car and running a power plant. The main source of the dominant gas, carbon dioxide, is burning coal and oil.
 But many specialists say that, at the same time, the protocol is just the tiniest initial step toward limiting the human influence on the climate, given that its targets are small and that the United States will not be bound by its terms. China, a major polluter that did sign the treaty, is not bound by its restrictions because it is considered a developing country.
 The treaty would require 36 industrialized countries to reduce their collective emissions of six greenhouse gases by 2012 to more than five percent below 1990 levels, with different targets negotiated for individual countries.
 By one calculation, it would take more than 40 times the emissions reductions required under the treaty to prevent a doubling of the pre-industrial concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere in this century. 
 Still, the decision by the government of President Vladimir V. Putin to endorse the treaty was ''cause for celebration,'' said Klaus Toepfer, the executive director of the United Nations Environment Program. 
 He acknowledged that the Kyoto accord was ''only the first step in a long journey towards stabilizing greenhouse gas emissions.'' But Mr. Toepfer added that Russia's move sent a vital signal to developing countries, which supported the treaty only if it excused them from reductions, and the small number of wealthy nations that still oppose curbs on the gases that cause global warming, most notably the United States. 
 ''I hope other nations, some of whom, like Russia, have maybe been in the past reluctant to ratify, will now join us in this truly global endeavor,'' he said. 
 In Washington, Harlan L. Watson, the chief State Department negotiator on climate issues, said Russia's decision would not change the Bush administration's rejection of the treaty. Mr. Watson said the United States would continue to focus on long-term research to find new nonpolluting sources of energy or ways to limit the buildup of carbon dioxide. 
 A spokesman for Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential candidate, who has criticized the Bush administration's position on global warming, was quick to seize on Russia's decision. ''George Bush made a catastrophic mistake when he declared a decade's work of 160 nations dead on arrival instead of working with our allies to fix the treaty and lead on global warming,'' said the spokesman, David Wade. ''We're still paying a heavy price for his unilateralism.''
 One more step is required in Russia for the pact to take effect -- approval by the Parliament, or Duma. But the body is dominated by supporters of Mr. Putin, so approval is expected, even though Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov predicted a ''difficult debate.'' The treaty would take effect 90 days after the Duma approval.
 Mr. Putin made no public statement on Thursday. His top economic adviser, Andrei Illarionov, who had opposed the pact, said that the decision to endorse it had been made for political reasons and that the task now would be to try to minimize what he called the treaty's negative consequences for Russia.
 He said compliance would slow Russia's economic growth and make it impossible to meet Mr. Putin's stated goal of doubling the gross domestic product within a decade.
 ''It's not a decision we are making with pleasure,'' Mr. Illarionov said, the Interfax news agency reported.
 The European Union had pressed Russia for more than a year to accept the pact. In Brussels, Romano Prodi, the president of the European Commission, said ''President Putin has sent a strong signal of his commitment and sense of responsibility.'' 
 Mr. Illarionov had said the treaty was based on false and even deceptive scientific assumptions. 
 His views conflict with a broad international scientific consensus that the buildup of long-lived gases, which act like the panes in a greenhouse roof, is likely to disrupt weather patterns and water supplies and threaten coasts by raising sea levels. 
 German Gref, Russia's economic development minister, called the treaty ''a progressive step'' but said, ''It will hardly be decisive in radically improving the environmental situation.'' 
 Breaking with Mr. Illarionov, Mr. Gref added that the treaty was unlikely to undermine Russia's economic growth.
 In Washington, some lobbyists for American industries opposed to the treaty suggested there was a chance that Mr. Putin still opposed it and was planning for Parliament to reject it -- as proof that he was not consolidating power. 
 But in Moscow, the mood among environmental activists was cautiously upbeat.
 Vladimir Azkharov, director of the Center for Russian Environmental Policy, a lobbying group, said the treaty ''very, very probably'' would be approved in parliament, although he said, ''there is no guarantee.''
 President Bush summarily rejected the treaty in 2001, saying it would burden the economy by limiting use of fossil fuels and would unfairly exclude big developing countries from curbs on emissions. The Senate had long ago signaled its opposition for the same reasons.
 China and other developing countries, while signing the treaty, only did so because it obligated established industrial powers to act first.
 Last December, in what seemed a definitive rejection, Mr. Illarionov said Russia would not sign the treaty. In May, however, Mr. Putin promised to speed ratification, in a move widely interpreted as a concession to gain support from the European Union for Russia's bid to join the World Trade Organization. International environmental groups expressed satisfaction at the news.
 ''As the Earth is battered by increasing storms, floods and droughts, President Putin has brought us to a pivotal point in human history,'' Steve Sawyer, a climate campaigner for Greenpeace International, said. ''The Bush administration is out in the cold and the rest of the world can move forward.''
 In a telephone interview, Fred Krupp, the president of Environmental Defense, said, ''What is significant is that it will be a market signal heard around the world, a signal that we are moving into a carbon-constrained future.'' 
 The treaty, named for the Japanese city of Kyoto where it was negotiated in 1997, is an outgrowth of a 1992 pact, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, that was signed by Mr. Bush's father and under which countries agreed to strive to bring their emissions of the gases to 1990 levels by 2000. 
 By the mid-1990s, however, it was clear that the targets would not be met, leading to a new round of talks toward a binding protocol with firm targets and penalties. 
 Its basic architecture and targets were hastily negotiated in December 1997 in Kyoto. But momentum was lost after Mr. Bush rejected it and after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 
 Some of its biggest weaknesses now stem from the long delays. Subsequent economic activity and rising emissions have threatened to put Europe and Japan, its main backers, out of compliance.
 The treaty provides various strategies through which countries can reach their targets without actually reducing emissions at home. Investments can be made in poor countries to save forests, which absorb carbon dioxide, or introduce efficient technologies, which use less fuel. 
 It permits emissions trading, in which one country buys the right to emit from another that has already exceeded its targets for reducing emissions and has extra credits.
 Prof. David G. Victor, a political scientist at Stanford and longtime student of the protocol, said Russia had nothing to lose by moving ahead, since it surpassed its Kyoto targets before they were set.
 After the Russian economy collapsed with the fall of Communism, the country's greenhouse gas emissions fell far below 1990 levels, leaving it with a bonanza of tradable credits earned when it surpassed its targets for reducing emissions. For Europe this bundle of credits is a mixed blessing now, Mr. Victor said.
 The European Union recently passed legislation creating an internal trading market under the protocol's terms, so that richer member states, like Britain, could get credit toward targets by investing in emissions-cutting projects in poorer, more polluted, ones, like Spain. But under the treaty's terms, Europe, Japan, and other industrialized participants can buy credits from Russia as well. If Russia now starts selling its credits to Europe, there will be little incentive for companies within the European Union to push ahead with plans to cut emissions that would be more costly, Mr. Victor said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Tipping the Scale''The Kyoto Protocol will take effect once it has been ratified by enough industrialized countries to account for 55 percent of their combined emissions in 1990. Of the total emissions by 34 industrialized countries, Russia's accounted for 17 percent. If the Russian parliament ratifies the protocol as expected, the treaty will go into force.Carbon dioxide emissions, as a share of total by 34 countries combined, 1990(United States, 37%)Graph tracks Russia and nations that have ratified the protocol for carbon dioxide emissions, as a share of total by 34 countries combined, in 1990.(Sources by United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); POWER PLANTS (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Weather; Global Warming; Kyoto Protocol; Air Pollution; Treaties; Weather; Weather

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) Seth Mydans; Andrew C Revkin

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Russia; China

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



14 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Aide Faults Serbia for Not Handing Over War Crimes Suspect

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WOOD

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
A senior American diplomat expressed frustration on Thursday that Serbia had yet to turn over a leading war crimes suspect months after the election of a new president who had promised ''full cooperation'' with the international tribunal at The Hague. 
 Marc Grossman, the under secretary of state for political affairs, said the Serbian government had made no progress toward arresting the former commander of the Bosnian Serb Army, Gen. Ratko Mladic. 
 General Mladic was indicted in 1995 on charges of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity stemming from his actions during the 1992-95 conflict in Bosnia. American diplomats believe that he is hiding in Serbia. 
 ''Sadly, the obligations that Belgrade has to The Hague remain unmet,'' Mr. Grossman told reporters after meeting with Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic. ''Mladic is still at large.''
 While European governments and the United States have repeatedly called for General Mladic's arrest, Mr. Grossman's remarks reflected the growing disappointment with Serbia among Western diplomats since the election of a reformist president in June.
 The inauguration of Boris Tadic, who during his election campaign had promised ''full cooperation'' with the war crimes tribunal, had raised expectations of possible arrests.
 ''Ninety days have gone by since,'' Mr. Grossman said. ''I hate to think that another 90 days will go by and another 90 days.'' Senior Western diplomats said they had hoped Mr. Tadic would call directly for General Mladic's arrest, something he has not done so far.
 While criticizing the government, Mr. Grossman said he welcomed the announcement by a Serbian court on Wednesday that it had issued indictments for four police and army generals also wanted by The Hague. He repeated an earlier offer that the United States might support Serbian demands that the four be tried in Serbia, if Mr. Mladic is handed over soon.
 The United States and the European Union have already imposed an array of penalties on Serbia for its failure to cooperate more closely with the tribunal.
 Congress has voted to suspend $70 million of aid to Serbia, and the Serbian government is unable to seek loans from the International Monetary Fund. Serbia's applications for membership in NATO's Partnership for Peace program and the European Union also remain blocked. 
 The Serbian government remains deeply divided on policy toward the tribunal. Although President Tadic has expressed the need to cooperate with the court, Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica has said war crimes suspects should be tried in Serbia.
 Some government officials warn that the arrests of men many Serbs still regard as war heroes could further strengthen the nationalistic Serbian Radical Party, the largest party in Parliament.
 ''It's not only sensitivities of the electorate,'' said Pedrag Simic, a political scientist at Belgrade University and a former foreign policy adviser to Mr. Kostunica. ''It is also the question of whether we have made a new state apparatus capable of dealing with these questions.'' Many police and judicial officials remain unchanged since the time of the former Yugoslav president, Slobodan Milosevic, he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES (95%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); GENOCIDE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%) War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) European Union; United Nations

PERSON: Nicholas Wood; Marc (Under Sec) Grossman; Boris (Pres) Tadic; Ratko (Gen) Mladic

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (94%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%) SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (97%); SERBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); NETHERLANDS (94%); EUROPE (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); MONTENEGRO (79%) Bosnia and Herzegovina; Bosnia and Herzegovina; Serbia and Montenegro

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



15 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Shares Close Mixed as Merck Pulls Down Blue Chips

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street closed out a dismal third quarter with a mixed performance yesterday after Merck said it would be forced to remove Vioxx, its best-selling arthritis drug, from the market. 
 Merck's unexpected bad news left blue chips with a loss for the day, while high-tech stocks got a lift from bargain hunters.
 The Dow fell 55.97 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,080.27. Merck represents 3.27 percent of the Dow. Broader stock indicators were narrowly mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was down 0.22, or 0.02 percent, at 1,114.58, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 2.90, or 0.2 percent, to 1,896.84. 
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies was up 1.87, or 0.3 percent, at 572.94.
 Merck's troubles -- Vioxx was found to carry an increased risk of heart attack and stroke -- were magnified because the company's stock is a component of the Dow industrial average. Analysts said the Dow would probably have been flat to slightly higher without Merck's announcement.
 ''I think the Merck bombshell has certainly superseded anything else we might have gotten today,'' said Bryan Piskorowski, market analyst at Wachovia Securities. ''Merck is going to keep us in the trading range we've been in all week, and I think we'll be in that range for the short term, at least until earnings come out in a few weeks.''
 The major indexes ended the quarter substantially lower, with the Dow losing 3.4 percent, the Nasdaq tumbling 7.4 percent and the S.&P. 500 dropping 2.3 percent. The Dow's loss from July to September was the biggest quarterly decline since the first quarter of 2003, while the Nasdaq's drop was its steepest since the third quarter of 2002.
 For the month, the Dow lost 0.9 percent -- the sixth consecutive September loss for the index -- while the S.&P. 500 gained 0.9 percent and the Nasdaq added 3.2 percent.
 In economic news yesterday, consumer incomes rose 0.4 percent in August, but spending remained flat as consumers contended with higher fuel prices throughout the summer. A barrel of light crude settled yesterday at $49.64, up 13 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Merck said the withdrawal of Vioxx would mean a major loss of revenue, as the drug accounted for $2.5 billion in worldwide sales. Merck shares plummeted 27 percent, or $12.07, to $33, stripping the company of more than $25 billion in market capitalization.
 Another Dow component, Pfizer, maker of the drug Celebrex, gained 42 cents, to $30.60, on the news, while other major pharmaceutical companies were slightly lower. GlaxoSmithKline slipped 11 cents, to $43.73, while Bristol-Myers Squibb lost 19 cents, to $23.67.
 PepsiCo was up 55 cents, to $48.65, after it said a growing international business led to a 6 percent increase in revenue for the third quarter. 
 The embattled mortgage giant Fannie Mae lost $2.85, to $63.40, after the company said it would increase the frequency of its reports to the government on its capital. The company's executives will probably be called before Congress to explain the company's accounting troubles.
 Nortel Networks said 1,400 jobs would be lost in the United States as the company trims its research and administrative staffs in a cost-cutting measure. The company will take a $450 million charge for the restructuring. Nortel was down 11 cents, at $3.40.
 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by more than 8 to 5 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 2.33 billion shares, compared with 1.8 billion on Wednesday.
 The prices of Treasury securities were mostly lower yesterday. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 8/32, to 101 1/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.12 percent from 4.09 percent on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Chart: ''Leading Underwriters''Managing underwriters of corporate securities, ranked by dollar amount raised through new issues in the United States for the third quarter of 2004. For this ranking, the lead manager is given credit for the entire issue.Manager: CitigroupDollar volume (billions): $95.39Number of issues: 277Share of market: 12.6%Rank in 3rd qtr. 2003: 1Manager: Morgan StanleyDollar volume (billions): 71.64Number of issues: 216Share of market: 9.5Rank in 3rd qtr. 2003: 3Manager: Lehman BrothersDollar volume (billions): 67.33Number of issues: 235Share of market: 8.9Rank in 3rd qtr. 2003: 2Manager: J.P. MorganDollar volume (billions): 60.99Number of issues: 217Share of market: 8.1Rank in 3rd qtr. 2003: 5Manager: Merrill LynchDollar volume (billions): 53.53Number of issues: 228Share of market: 7.1Rank in 3rd qtr. 2003: 4Manager: Credit Suisse First BostonDollar volume (billions): 53.49Number of issues: 169Share of market: 7.1Rank in 3rd qtr. 2003: 6Manager: Goldman SachsDollar volume (billions): 50.28Number of issues: 130Share of market: 6.6Rank in 3rd qtr. 2003: 7Manager: Banc of America SecuritiesDollar volume (billions): 48.62Number of issues: 152Share of market: 6.4Rank in 3rd qtr. 2003: 11Manager: Bear StearnsDollar volume (billions): 46.78Number of issues: 98Share of market: 6.2Rank in 3rd qtr. 2003: 10Manager: Deutsche BankDollar volume (billions): 41.81Number of issues: 128Share of market: 5.5Rank in 3rd qtr. 2003: 9(Source by Thomson Financial)Chart: ''Leaders and Laggards in the Quarter''Securities with the largest gains and declines in percentage terms in the third quarter of 2004, as calculated by The Associated Press. Preferred shares are excluded as are securities that began the quarter at less than $5 a share or which had a market capitalization of less than $10 million. No more than one class of a security is listed.Graph tracks the closing prices (June 30, Sept. 30), change in dollars and percent for the leaders and laggards for the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq and American Stock Exchange.(Source by The Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); STROKES (68%); HEART DISEASE (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Government Bonds

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (92%); PFIZER INC (58%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (58%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (92%); MRK (NYSE) (92%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); GSK (NYSE) (58%); GSK (LSE) (58%); BIOC (EGX) (58%); BMY (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



16 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Tentative Contract With Janitors Reached

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The union representing 25,000 building-service workers at more than 1,000 New York City office buildings announced a tentative contract early this morning, thus avoiding a strike threatened for 12:01 a.m. today.
 Real estate industry and union officials taking part in the intense negotiations at the Hilton New York said that substantial progress had been made on how to close a $175 million operating deficit in the union's health fund. 
 James F. Berg, president of the Realty Advisory Board, which negotiates for the building owners and managers, said the deal would increase the workers' wages and benefits by 4 percent a year. Under the three-year deal, wages would be frozen in the first year, but the union did achieve its principal goal of avoiding its members' having to pay any premium toward health coverage. 
 The agreement calls for employers to contribute a total of $78 more each week for health coverage by the end of the contract. In the settlement, the workers will receive a total raise of 5 percent over three years.
 ''The settlement exceeds the rate of inflation, and it was difficult for the employers to find the ability to fund it,'' said Mr. Berg. ''The employers were interested in maintaining health care for their employees, and they were interested in having a peaceful settlement.''
 For several weeks, management negotiators have said that if they came up with a large amount of money to close the health fund deficit, then that might not leave money for the sizable raises the union -- Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union -- was seeking. Late yesterday afternoon, hundreds of members of the union held a protest march from the Hilton to Rockefeller Center, calling for a fair contract and fair raises. 
 As the strike deadline approached, real estate management companies were making preparations to use thousands of replacement workers to help to clean the buildings, run the freight elevators and handle other responsibilities. A walkout would have involved thousands of janitors, doormen, elevator operators and repair workers at office buildings in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens.
 The union last held a major walkout in January 1996, when it struck 1,000 office buildings for 30 days, creating problems in cleaning the buildings and clearing the sidewalks after snowstorms. 
 For weeks, Local 32BJ and management had said the biggest obstacle to a settlement was how much each side should contribute toward eliminating the health fund's deficit. 
 The Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations has demanded that the workers begin paying part of their annual health insurance premium. At a new briefing yesterday morning, Michael Fishman, the local's president, again rejected that demand, saying that once the workers began paying premiums, the amount would grow each year, eating away at whatever raises they received. The janitors covered by the agreement that expired last night earn $763.92 a week.
 About the only thing the two sides agreed on was that the health care deficit, caused largely by skyrocketing health costs, was a formidable problem. Under the old contract, management contributed $6,700 per worker per year for health coverage, but with the costs or providing health care soaring to $10,200 per worker per year, that left a shortfall of $3,500 for each worker. The health fund faced such a crisis that the union's actuaries predicted it would become insolvent by the end of this year unless an agreement was reached to increase financing.
 In behind-the-scenes negotiations over the summer, Local 32BJ agreed to adopt a less expensive health plan, which covers not just the 25,000 office building workers and their families, but also 27,000 apartment building workers and their families. Mr. Fishman said the new health plan would be nearly as good as the old one, providing 65,000 doctors, down from 70,000 in the previous plan.
 Management and union officials said yesterday that about $85 million would be saved each year thanks to the revised health plan and to a decision to put the union's prescription plan out for new bidding.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the Service Employees Union demonstrated yesterday near the Hilton New York, before the contract agreement was reached. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); STRIKES (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (88%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); INFLATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); WEATHER (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



17 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 3245 words

HEADLINE: Edith Wharton's New York

BYLINE: By CHARLES McGRATH

 BODY:
Though born in New York, Edith Wharton spent most of her life abroad. In 1913, when she was 51, she divorced her husband of 28 years, the feckless, alcoholic Teddy Wharton (whom Henry James once called ''cerebrally compromised''), and settled permanently in Paris. The move was a conscious break with America and with her upbringing.
 Wharton was Old New York -- the New York whose capital was Washington Square, the site, as it happens, of the 26th New York Is Book Country festival this weekend. Her mother, who everyone said looked and acted like Queen Victoria, was a Rhinelander, though not one of the rich ones. Her father was a Jones, of the family that gave rise to the expression ''keeping up with the Joneses.''
 They belonged to that tiny but powerful New York clan, all descended from old Dutch settlers or English merchants, who clung together, intermarried, set the tone and made the rules for society in Manhattan. 
 This was a circle where divorce was unthinkable, for example -- or at least unmentionable. So was failing to take up your carpets for the summer, drinking Champagne on Sunday, or having the family jewels reset. Wharton, though an authentic product of this world, eventually found it stifling for its narrowness, its rigidity, even for the fussiness of its decor, which, with Ogden Codman Jr., she wrote a whole book criticizing: ''Lambrequins, jardinieres of artificial plants, wobbly velvet covered tables littered in geegaws, and festoons of lace on mantelpieces and dressing tables.''
 She also came to resent the repression and emotional aridity of her society and, in particular, the way it denied women both education and opportunity. Wharton was privately tutored and never formally went to school. Like John Ruskin, probably the only other great writer to be so ill informed, she literally did not know the facts of life when she married. When she approached her mother on the eve of her wedding and asked if there was anything she should know, the imperious Mrs. Jones impatiently remarked that surely she had noticed the difference between male and female statues. (Wharton didn't have a satisfactory sexual experience until she was 45 and, while living in Paris, embarked upon an affair with a married man; it was a discovery, she wrote later, that was sufficient ''to irradiate a whole life.'')
 Yet for all her reservations about New York, Wharton still visited and, unlike her friend and mentor Henry James, who had settled not just himself but also most of his fiction in England, she continued to set most of her books and stories here -- in a remembered New York and what she imagined to be the New York of her parents and grandparents. The city became for her a social topography and a deep vein to be mined, both a real place and a symbolic landscape.
 If you read Wharton's New York fiction systematically, what emerges is a cityscape not unlike Saul Steinberg's famous map of Manhattan -- the one where New Jersey, California and China are all just an inch or two away from Midtown; a place that's not exactly representational but that nevertheless expresses a certain metaphorical truth.
 On Wharton's map, civilization ends north of Central Park, except for satellites in Newport, Rhinebeck and Tuxedo Park. Her New York is very slender -- it stretches from Third Avenue to Sixth, essentially -- and its center is what is now the campus of New York University. If Steinberg had drawn Wharton's New York, he would have shown it from the point of view of someone looking through the Washington Square Arch.

'A Hieroglyphic World'
 In Wharton's books, as in Henry James's, Washington Square and the surrounding neighborhood is where the old, ancestral Dutch and English aristocrats live -- the Dagonets, the van der Luydens and others; made-up families who turn up in her writing again and again -- in houses that are ostentatiously proper and unostentatious and where scandal is more feared than disease. It's a ''hieroglyphic world,'' Newland Archer reflects in ''The Age of Innocence,'' ''where the real thing was never said or done, or even thought, but only represented by a set of arbitrary signs.'' 
 When Undine Spragg, the clueless but wealthy and acrobatically social climbing heroine of ''The Custom of the Country,'' is invited to a dinner party down in this neighborhood, she at first thinks she's stumbled upon a family in hard times: no gilding, no chandeliers, too many books, a log fire instead of gas, and a bland, unadorned dinner of broiled and roasted meat that seems intended for ''dyspeptics on a diet.'' She lives in the Stentorian, a hotel on the Upper West Side -- way up, at 72nd Street -- where all the nouveaus come to stay in suites that are overheated and overupholstered, so luxurious they're almost enervating.

An Era of Transformation
 Wharton's Manhattan is not an entirely fixed place. Her New York fiction spans the years from, roughly, 1840 through the turn of the century -- from before her birth, in other words, through the Civil War and beyond into the Gilded Age, an era of tremendous transformation in American society, when social and economic power began to pass from people like her parents to the robber barons, the speculators, the entrepreneurs.
 There were technological changes as well, so that Newland Archer, for example, middle-aged at the end of ''The Age of Innocence,'' can marvel at the miracle of electricity and the long-distance telephone. But social values changed more slowly, at least in Wharton's view, and if we're elastic about certain small changes -- and don't obsess, for example, about whether it's a barouche, a brougham, an omnibus, an ''electric car'' or a ''motor'' (i.e. an automobile) that's proceeding uptown -- certain constants manifest themselves. 
 In her autobiography, ''A Backward Glance,'' Wharton wrote, ''One of the most depressing impressions of my childhood is my recollection of the intolerable ugliness of New York,'' and her made-up city is correspondingly drab and even a little creepy. It's a city populated largely by scheming, domineering women and wimpy, ineffectual men. The only children who turn up are poor or orphaned.
 The main cultural attractions are the horse show and the opera -- not the Met, which was built by the nouveaus, but the old Academy of Music, at Irving Place and 14th Street, where it is customary to take a box but where it is ''not the thing'' to arrive early, or even to pay too much attention to what is taking place onstage. Certain society painters are fashionable, like Claud Popple in ''The Custom of the Country,'' who seems to be a cross between James Whistler and John Singer Sargent. The Metropolitan Museum, on the other hand, is a ''queer wilderness of cast iron and encaustic tiles,'' so seldom visited that Newland Archer and Madame Olenska go there when they want to have a secret rendezvous. There are books -- private libraries, in fact -- but no one seems to read them much.
 In Wharton's New York, proper people dine at 7, and the menu usually consists of canvasback and terrapin. Afterward the custom of after-dinner calls is still observed. The young men, bearded, mutton-chopped, with their frock coats, canes, gloves and hats, stroll up from Waverly Place to leave their cards. Inexorably, they're drawn farther and farther up Fifth Avenue, which is where the money is heading, flooding in on a tide of carriages. ''Aristocracy to the south and Money to the north,'' the narrator of the novella ''New Year's Day'' reflects, recalling his parents' incredulity at the way new houses ''advanced steadily Parkward, outstripping the 30th Streets, taking the Reservoir at a bound.''
 Fifth Avenue is where the wealthy arrivistes are building mansions, like the Beauforts' place in ''The Age of Innocence'' and the Trenors' house, with its wide white marble facade and separate ballroom, which Lily Bart, in ''The House of Mirth,'' is inconveniently seen to leave at a time when Mr. Trenor, but not Mrs., is known to be in residence. Even more lavish is the house, an exact replica of the Pitti Palace, built for Undine Spragg and Elmer Moffat, her third husband (or her fourth; she was married to him years ago, long before he made his billions, only nobody knows about it), at 5009 Fifth, a mythical address that, if it really existed, would be at 274th Street.

Easy Street Is East
 Besides the north-south axis, the other great demarcation in Wharton's New York is the one dividing east from west. The East Side is where the fashionable young people live, like Lawrence Selden from ''The House of Mirth,'' who has rooms at the Benedick, at 50th and Madison, or Newland and May Archer, who after their wedding settle in a brand-new house on East 39th, a neighborhood both remote and a little experimental, where the younger architects are beginning to use ''ghastly greenish yellow stone . . . as a protest against the brownstone of which the uniform hue coated New York like a cold chocolate sauce.''
 The West Side is where the vulgar hotels are; it's also where the poor and the oddballs live, like the inhabitants of the strange little neighborhood on West 23rd where Madame Olenska briefly resides in ''The Age of Innocence'': ''small dressmakers, bird-stuffers and 'people who wrote.' '' The farther west you go, apparently, the more things run down; Lily Bart's downfall is so complete that she winds up living in a boarding house so many blocks west of Sixth that the railings are no longer painted and garbage is carelessly strewn around.
 Not a lot of real work gets done in Wharton's New York -- except by the seamstresses in the workroom at Madame Regina's renowned millinery establishment, where Lily briefly finds employment. Some of the younger men, like Newland Archer, dabble at legal careers, but not so seriously that they can't take months off to go to Europe or to Newport. This is a world that is financed for the most part by inherited wealth, and where people from the middle and working classes are seldom glimpsed. Even the servants are invisible, and so is the bustle of immigrant life that so impressed Wharton's contemporary William Dean Howell. 
 Nor is Wharton's New York a very sexy place, and not just because the publishing conventions of the time (about which Wharton complained bitterly) were so fastidious about sexual description. Wealthy married men and women, like Gus Trenor and Bertha Dorset, both from ''The House of Mirth,'' have routine affairs, but they seem like passionless undertakings. Lily Bart, for all her other missteps, remains chaste to the end. Newland Archer and Madame Olenska never get beyond a few kisses -- in part because he, like so many of Wharton's men, seems more than a little repressed. It's Undine Spragg, a quick study, who discovers what's really erotic in Wharton's New York: money and power. 
 Undine is turned on by both, and so, it turns out, are even some of the snobs down in Washington Square, who are fascinated (even as they pretend to be appalled) by figures like slimy Elmer Moffat, Undine's first and last husband, the sleazy young man from Acme City who winds up amassing a fortune, and the smarmy, socially ambitious Sim Rosedale, the financier from ''The House of Mirth,'' who we are always reminded is a Jew but whose instincts about the stock market are unerring.

New Money Turns Old
 What makes these figures so alluring is their almost magical ability to make money, the thing that is on everyone's mind even if it's not always mentioned, and this in turn gives them a vigor, an earthiness -- a physical presence -- that seems denied to the Newland Archers of that world.
 By the end of their respective novels, Moffat and Rosedale are well on their way to being not just accepted but also admired, and in this respect Wharton's New York proves to be exactly like our own. New money quickly turns old (the Dagonets and the Mingotts, Wharton suggests, were no doubt a little sleazy themselves just a few generations ago), while even newer, fresher money pours in.
 This process of transfusion and transformation -- of turning dollars into both social capital and an aphrodisiac -- is part of what makes New York New York, and though she moved away to escape it, Wharton couldn't help being fascinated and a little turned on herself.

The New York Is Book Country Festival

This year, the 26th New York Is Book Country festival will move from its customary Midtown Manhattan location on Fifth Avenue downtown to Washington Square Park and the surrounding Greenwich Village streets, as well as the campus of New York University. The event is sponsored by New York Is Book Country, in association with The New York Times. The traditional street fair, with more than 120 exhibitor booths, featuring publishers, book retailers and literacy organizations, will be held tomorrow from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Related events, including panels, discussions, readings, author signings and children's activities, are planned both tomorrow and Sunday, with events on Sunday running until 5 p.m. Special stages will be set up in the park for adult and children's events, including appearances by authors and personalities like Julie Andrews, Jamie Lee Curtis, R. L. Stine, Mary Pope Osborne, Mary Engelbreit and Mike Berenstain. There will also be a special pavilion devoted to the graphic novel, featuring displays of DC, Drawn and Quarterly and Marvel Comics. New York University will be the site of free panel discussions with Jimmy Breslin, Pete Hamill and Frank McCourt, as well as author readings and exhibitions of fine art, books, documents and photographs. Free tickets to the panels are available at the New York Is Book Country ticket booth on Schwartz Plaza. (Washington Square South and Washington Square West). Festival information: www.nyisbookcountry.com.A sampling of events:

Tomorrow

BOOKS INTO FILM. A discussion with Michael Kantor and Laurence J. Maslon, authors of the book ''Broadway: The American Musical,'' with clips from the six-part PBS documentary series ''Broadway: The American Musical,'' to be broadcast Oct. 19 to 21. New York University Cantor Film Center, 36 East Eighth Street, 2 p.m.

BOOK CELEBRATION AND DISCUSSION. ''The Breath of a Wok: Unlocking the Spirit of Chinese Wok Cooking Through Recipes and Lore.'' A discussion with Grace Young, a writer and chef, and Alan Richardson, a photographer, in conjunction with ''Wok Hay: The Breath of a Wok,'' a photography exhibition. New York University Asian/Pacific/American Studies Program & Institute, 269 Mercer Street, Suite 609, noon; the gallery will be open until 3 p.m.

BIG ONION WALKING TOUR OF GREENWICH VILLAGE, focusing on the literary roots of the area, meeting at 1 p.m. at the Washington Arch. Fee: $12; $10 for students, 63+ and members of the New-York Historical Society. Also Sunday, same time. Information: (212) 439-1090.

''CREATE EXTRAORDINARY BEADS FROM ORDINARY MATERIALS,'' New York Public Library, Donnell Library Central Children's Room, 20 West 53rd Street, Manhattan. A workshop in making paper beads with Tina Casey, an author and artist. 3 to 4 p.m. Information: (212) 621-0636.

''GRANDMOTHER'S STORIES AND READ-ALOUD DAY.'' Lefferts Historic House Museum, Flatbush Avenue, Prospect Park, Brooklyn. Storytelling and illustration workshops. 1 to 4 p.m. Also free books will be provided by the Brooklyn Reading Council. Free. Information: (718) 789-2822.

''SEVEN DAYS OF POSSIBILITIES,'' Bloomingdale Branch Library, 150 West 100th Street, Manhattan. A reading and discussion with Anemona Hartcollis, an education reporter for The New York Times,, who will speak about the Finnish jazz singer Johanna Glussner, who formed a gospel choir for underprivileged students in the Bronx. 2 to 3 p.m. Information: (212) 222-8030.

WRITERS AND READERS TOGETHER. Mid-Manhattan Library, 455 Fifth Avenue, at 40th Street. A lecture by Colson Whitehead, author of ''John Henry Days.'' 2 to 4 p.m. Information: (212) 340-0913.

''REVERSE FESTIVAL.'' Bronx Museum of the Arts, 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morissania. Celebrating independent thought, media and literature. 4 to 8 p.m. Information: (718) 681-6000, Ext. 120; www.bxma.org.

Sunday

TWO LITERARY EVENTS. Two special literary events sponsored by The New York Times will take place on Sunday at New York University in the Rosenthal Pavilion, Kimmel Center, 60 Washington Square South. From 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., a brunch will feature a discussion with the authors David Baldacci, Terry Gross, Alexander McCall Smith, Esmeralda Santiago and Anita Shreve; tickets, $125. A tea follows at 4 p.m., with Maureen Dowd, an Op-Ed columnist for The New York Times and author of ''Bushworld: Enter at Your Own Risk,'' and Jill Abramson, managing editor of The New York Times; tickets, $75. Reservations necessary: (888) 698-1870; http://nytimes.com/marketing/timestalks/brunch.

CHILDREN'S AUTHOR AND ILLUSTRATOR BREAKFAST, the Essex House, 160 Central Park South. From 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., a celebration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of Dr. Seuss (Theodor Seuss Geisel). It features readings, along with entertainment by the Yale Whiffenpoofs. Participants include Al Roker, the NBC personality, and Deborah Roberts, an ABC News correspondent. Sponsored by the Books for Kids Foundation. Admission: $60; $200 for a family of four. Reservations are required: (212) 252-9168.

BOOKS INTO FILM. A screening of the film ''Joyce to the World,'' with Diana J. Wynne, author of the script. N.Y.U. Cantor Film Center, 36 East Eighth Street, 1 p.m.

''WHAT EVERY AUTHOR SHOULD KNOW ABOUT FINDING AN AGENT AND GETTING A PUBLISHER. A discussion with the literary agents Jane Dystel, Ellen Geiger, and Manie Baron. N.Y.U. Kimmel Center for University Life, Room 804, 60 Washington Square South. 1:30 to 2:30 p.m. Information: (212) 992-3235.

''WHAT AUTHORS CAN DO TO HELP MAKE THEIR BOOKS MORE SUCCESSFUL.'' Center for Publishing, N.Y.U. Kimmel Center for University Life, 60 Washington Square South, Room 808. A discussion with Keith Kahla, a senior editor with St. Martin's Press; Lissa Warren, senior director of publicity, Da Capo Press; and Meryl L. Moss, head of Meryl L. Moss Media Relations Inc. 3 to 4:30 p.m. Information: (212) 992-3235.

''PORT CULTURES: DEFINING ASIAN ATLANTIC.'' N.Y.U. Asian/Pacific/American Studies Program & Institute, Kimmel Center for University Life, Room 804. A discussion on diasporic cultures and communities with the authors Meena Alexander (''Raw Silk''), Sukhdev Sandhu (''London Calling: How Black & Asian Writers Imagined a City'') and John Kuo Wei Tchen (''New York Before Chinatown: Orientalism and the Shaping of American Culture, 1776-1882''), 1 to 2 p.m.; free tickets required.

''THE ART OF THE BOOK,'' Museum of Arts & Design, 40 West 53rd Street, Manhattan. A storytelling workshop, using imagery, text and three-dimensional materials, noon to 4 p.m. Information: (212) 956-3535, Ext. 159; fee, $3.

''VIVA FRIDA!.'' Brooklyn Children's Museum, 145 Brooklyn Avenue, at St. Marks Avenue, Crown Heigths. A self-portrait workshop in celebration of Latino heritage. 3 to 4 p.m. Free with museum admission: $4. Information: (718) 735-4400, Ext. 144.

''MEET THE ILLUSTRATOR/AUTHOR.'' The New York Public Library, Donnell Library, Central Children's Room, 20 West 53rd Street, Manhattan. A discussion with Melanie Hope Greenberg, illustrator of ''A City Is,'' written by Norman Rosten, and ''On My Street,'' written by Eve Merriam. 3 to 4 p.m. Information: (212) 621-0636.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 9, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Weekend on Oct. 1 about Edith Wharton's New York misstated the name of the hometown of Elmer Moffat, a character in her novel ''The Custom of the Country.'' It is Apex City, not Acme City.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Nancy Stahl)(pg. E27, E35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (78%); FAMILY (78%); LITERATURE (75%); WRITERS (75%); GRANDPARENTS (69%) Books and Literature

PERSON: Edith (1862-1937) Wharton; Charles Mcgrath

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (72%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



18 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 87 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Canada: Economic Growth Slows

BYLINE: By Ian Austen (NYT)

 BODY:
The gross domestic product of Canada grew 0.1 percent in July compared with the previous month, a lower increase than expected. Many economists had predicted that a 0.3 percent gain would follow June's 0.4 percent increase. Statistics Canada, a government agency, cited several factors, among them reduced tourism caused by unseasonably cool weather in much of the country and concerns about slow crossings at the United States border. Also, growth slowed in the construction, mining, oil and gas sectors. Ian Austen (NYT)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); TRENDS (88%); STATISTICS (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Gross Domestic Product

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



19 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 77 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Japan: Industrial Output Up

BYLINE: Reuters

 BODY:
Industrial production in Japan rose last month for the first time since May, but only by 0.3 percent as manufacturers curbed output to avoid building inventories amid signs of slowing exports. The rise in August from July was weaker than the 0.5 percent increase forecast by economists. Rising industrial output, helped by exports, has supported Japan's recovery. But China's efforts to cool its economy and slowing demand in the United States are causing concern.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (84%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (83%) International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



20 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft Asks Appeals Court In Europe to Delay Punishment

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

DATELINE: LUXEMBOURG, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
Microsoft, seeking to stave off legal sanctions aimed at hindering its ability to dominate markets for desktop media players and server software, warned a European appeals court on Thursday that software developers and consumers would face dire consequences should it be penalized.
 Speaking at the start of a two-day hearing before the European Court of First Instance, Microsoft's general counsel, Brad Smith, asked the court to delay until the end of the appeals process moves aimed at forcing the company to change its practices drastically. That process is expected to last at least two years.
 The European Commission in March demanded that Microsoft share secret information about Windows to allow rivals to design products that can interoperate with its ubiquitous operating system; it also forced the company to sell a stripped-down version of its Windows operating system in Europe without its own media player. 
 ''The path chosen by the European Commission is a path that will harm hundreds of European companies, thousands of European software developers and millions of European consumers,'' Mr. Smith told journalists before the hearing. He also said the commission's penalties would ''hinder innovation and slow economic growth, especially in Europe.''
 Judge Bo Vesterdorf, who is also president of the appeals court, is expected to rule within two months on whether Microsoft will have to comply with the sanctions during the appeals process.
 In the the court's largest hall, Judge Vesterdorf listened as lawyers in white wigs sought to sway the outcome of the most drastic antitrust remedies ever imposed on the company, which according to the European Commission has more than 95 percent of the market for global desktop software and more than 40 percent of the market for work-group server software in Europe.
 ''The commission is attempting to redesign the structure of the company,'' said Ian S. Forrester, a lawyer with the Brussels office of the law firm of White & Case, which represents Microsoft. ''This is the first time in history a company would be compelled to draw up a description of its secret technology and deliver it to competitors.''
 The hearing drew more than 100 lawyers to Luxembourg, many representing Microsoft's competitors, who sense a rare opportunity in Europe to break the software maker's stranglehold on desktop operating systems and halt its dominance in the software market for servers that link multiple personal computers.
 Edward J. Black, president of the Computer and Communications Industry Association, a lobbying group in Washington that represents Verizon Communications, Nortel Networks, Sun MicroSystems, Oracle and others, said a decision against Microsoft could have major consequences, and not just in Europe.
 ''This is the leading front in an ongoing global debate over what constitutes intellectual property,'' said Mr. Black, whose association supports the sanctions against Microsoft. ''If Microsoft loses here, the company for the very first time will be forced to significantly change the way it does business.''
 The hearing's first day focused on a single issue: whether Microsoft should be forced to disclose parts of its source code to competitors, who claim the failure to publish the information prevents competing server products from working as well as Microsoft's with desktop personal computers that run Windows.
 Walter Molls, a lawyer representing the European Commission, said the legal demand to share information is intended to prevent Microsoft from using its virtual monopoly in desktop systems to amass a similar dominance in the server market.
 ''The European Commission considers Microsoft's arguments to be long on speculation and short on fact,'' Mr. Molls said.
 Competitors scoffed at the company's claim that Microsoft would suffer ''irreparable harm'' -- the standard it must show under European Union law to postpone the sanctions -- if it is forced to divulge its ''interoperative protocols'' to competitors. The protocols are the numerical building blocks that make up the alphabet used by servers to communicate with each other and with personal computers.
 David Evans, an economist at LECG in Berkeley, Calif., who was hired by Microsoft, said the company faced stiff competition from servers using Linux software, which had 9 percent of the global market in 2003, according to Mr. Evans, and is expected to have 19 percent by 2008.
 ''Linux's continuing growth shows that access to Microsoft's secret protocols isn't necessary,'' Mr. Evans said. ''Competing technologies have emerged without Microsoft having to divulge its own secrets.''
 While the bulk of the day's testimony focused on arcane computer engineering details, the outcome of the debate could have major consequences for Microsoft.
 ''The outcome of this would be huge, and set a precedent for redefining the limits and protections of intellectual property,'' said Laurent A. Ruessmann, a partner at Sidley Austin Brown & Wood in Brussels. Mr. Ruessmann is representing the Association for Competitive Technology, a lobbying group in Washington that is aiding Microsoft's defense.
 During his questioning, Judge Vesterdorf appeared to be trying to goad the two sides into a compromise; one that would force Microsoft to divulge enough information to help competitors' software interoperate with its products, but not enough to let them produce wholesale copies.
 Judge Vesterdorf also asked commission lawyers whether they would consider putting a time limit on Microsoft's obligation to share information with competitors. ''If these remedies were imposed eternally, that could discourage the company from devoting their resources to other areas,'' Judge Vesterdorf said.
 On Friday, the court will hear arguments on whether Microsoft should be forced to strip its Windows Media Player from its operator systems in Europe to give competitors like RealNetworks better access to the global desktop market. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPEALS COURTS (92%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (90%); APPEALS (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); NETWORK SERVERS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); LAWYERS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION COURTS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (66%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); LOBBYING (60%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (51%) Computers and the Internet; Computer Software

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (61%); WHITE & CASE LLP (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); COMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION OF JAPAN (51%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (83%) Microsoft Corp

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: Kevin J O'Brien

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LUXEMBOURG (73%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



21 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Car Bombs Kill 41, Most of Them Children
A pair of car bombs tore through a street celebration marking the opening of a new sewer plant, killing 41 Iraqis, at least 34 of them children, and wounding and maiming 139 more, in one of the most horrific attacks in Baghdad since the fall of Saddam Hussein. A1

American and Iraqi soldiers launched a military assault on Samarra, in what appeared to be the first major operation to retake areas from rebels before elections. A6

The Bush administration is pressing wealthy countries to come up with money to help fill the gap created by its recent decision to divert funds in Iraq from reconstruction into security and job creation. A6

Eroding Kurdish Gains in Turkey
Kurds have begun to achieve a modicum of economic progress and cultural freedom, but at the same time, Kurdish militants have taken up arms in southeastern Turkey. A8

31 Killed in Israeli Offensive
At least 28 Palestinians and three Israelis were killed as Israeli troops pushed into a refugee camp in the Gaza Strip and battled militants. The fighting, combined with warnings from Israeli officials, pointed to the possibility of a large-scale military offensive in Gaza directed at the Palestinian factions responsible for almost daily attacks. A3

Russian Global Warming Treaty
Russia's cabinet endorsed the long-delayed Kyoto Protocol on global warming treaty and sent it to parliament. A1

Secretary General Front-runner
Thailand's foreign minister, Surakiart Sathirathai, has emerged as an early favorite to succeed Kofi Annan as United Nations secretary general when his term ends in 2006. A6

NATIONAL A12-24

Bush and Kerry Clash Over Iraq in Debate
Senator John Kerry, in his first face-to-face encounter with President Bush, argued last night that Mr. Bush had made a ''colossal error of judgment'' in invading Iraq, while Mr. Bush belittled Mr. Kerry as a weak leader whose shifting opinions would embolden America's foes. A1

Panel Critical of DeLay
The House ethics committee determined that the majority leader, Tom DeLay, should be admonished for improperly trying to win the vote of a Michigan lawmaker during a floor fight over a health bill. A1

Airport Security Increased
Officials began photographing and electronically fingerprinting travelers from 27 industrialized nations, including England and France. A13

Drug Bills Vetoed in California
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger vetoed several bills that would have made the state the middleman in large-scale purchases of prescription drugs from Canada. A12

Cuban Scholars Denied Visas
The Bush administration has denied entry to all 61 Cuban scholars scheduled to participate in an international congress in Las Vegas. A15

Ban on Gay Unions Blocked
A proposed constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage failed in the House of Representatives, a defeat the measure's Republican backers promptly vowed to wield against Democrats in the November election. A14

Deportation Delayed for Hamdi
The administration postponed deporting Yaser E. Hamdi, the Saudi-American captured in Afghanistan in 2001, because of Saudi government objections to requirements that it monitor him for five years. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Mayor Demands Inquiry Into Ex-Senator's Release
Mayor Bloomberg said he asked the New York City Department of Investigation to examine how a city commission run by mayoral appointees granted former State Senator Guy J. Velella an early release from jail. B1

Law Firms Must Defend Fees
A New York State judge told law firms that they must justify the contingency fees they charged to represent families before the federal September 11th Victim Compensation Fund. She left open the possibility that she might reduce them. B3

Woman, 76, Fatally Stabbed
A 76-year-old Brooklyn woman fought back against a robber who stabbed her half a dozen times, but died after staggering two blocks into a police station and collapsing on the floor, the authorities said. B1

FASHION B9

WEEKEND E1-26;E27-36

ESCAPES F1-14

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-6

OBITUARIES A25

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Obesity Deemed Societal Ill
A report on the causes and solutions for childhood obesity in the United States calls for a societal strategy, including healthier meals in schools and restaurants. A24

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

Arthritis Drug Withdrawn
Merck said it would stop selling its arthritis and pain medication Vioxx because a new study found that it doubled patients' risk of heart attack and strokes. A1

U.S. Willing to Forgive Debt
The United States and is nearing an agreement with international financial institutions to forgive all the government debts of many of the world's poorest countries. C1

Trade Dispute Unresolved
Top trade officials for the United States and the European Union failed to resolve their dispute over government subsidies to aircraft manufacturers, inching closer to a clash. C5

Fannie Mae Investigation
The Justice Department started an investigation of Fannie Mae in response to a report accusing executives of sloppy accounting practices, a government official said. C3

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: The first debate; ending the cycle of debt; demise of a blockbuster drug; not in America.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E26
TV Listings E25
Public Lives B4
Weather D7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); VETO (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (74%); MARRIAGE (73%); FINGERPRINTING (73%); AVIATION SECURITY (73%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); REFUGEES (69%); AIRPORTS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); ETHICS (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); MARRIAGE LAW (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); TURKEY (92%); FRANCE (79%); ENGLAND (74%); THAILAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



22 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Ending the Cycle of Debt

 BODY:
One of the biggest reasons that very poor countries can't provide decent education and health care is that they are stuck in a cycle of debt owed to the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and regional development banks, much of it dating to the 1970's. Most have paid back in interest more than they originally borrowed but haven't been able to touch the principal, and the cycle continues. Nigeria, for example, borrowed $5 billion, has paid back $16 billion and still owes $32 billion on the same debt.
 Everyone involved agrees that this is unjust, and the members of the club of nations known as the G-8, whose finance ministers are meeting in Washington on Friday, have endorsed the concept of debt relief. But concrete proposals have been lacking until very recently. Now the United States is proposing to cancel the debts of the world's 30 poorest countries, and Britain has joined in. The rest of the G-8 should endorse this plan. 
 One motivation for President Bush's efforts in this area is that he wants the world to greatly reduce Iraq's debt. He has run into objections from other nations who rightly do not want to see a country like Iraq, with the world's second-largest oil reserves, treated better than, say, Burkina Faso. But Mr. Bush's proposal is also consistent with his longstanding campaign to get the banks to give money, rather than lend it, to the poorest nations.
 Current efforts to reduce these debts are failing. The Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative began in 1996, and was expanded in 1999, with the purpose of eliminating $100 billion in debt from dozens of poor nations. But it has been too slow and limited. It has not reduced debts to manageable levels.
 Poor countries deserve more help to get out from under loans made by banks awash in oil money; a great deal of that loan money went to corrupt dictators. Today, sub-Saharan Africa pays $1.30 in debt service for every dollar it gets in aid, four times what it spends on health care. 
 Rich countries have yet to agree on who should pay. Britain has offered to contribute 10 percent of the needed money, but other G-8 countries are not likely to be similarly generous. The Bush administration's solution, that the I.M.F. and the World Bank cover the costs, is the best one. Surprisingly, leaders of those institutions, who had previously opposed financing debt cancellation, now say they are willing. One reason is that the I.M.F. owns more than 103 million ounces of gold, a holdover from the gold standard days that it values at about 10 percent of the market price. By selling a small part of that gold at market rates or by simply revaluing it, the I.M.F. could finance debt cancellation painlessly. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); GOLD MINING (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Editorials; Credit; Third World and Developing Countries

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); BURKINA FASO (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



23 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Board of Troubled Hospital Is Seen as Ripe for Change

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
As boards of directors in Westchester County go, it is not the most glamorous and certainly not the cushiest. But it does get more attention than any other, overseeing, as it does, the financially embattled Westchester Medical Center.
 The board, which hires the chief executive and approves the hospital's budget, may soon undergo a shake-up. Of the seven directors whose seats are controlled by the county, the terms of six have expired, and the county Board of Legislators has spent the past two weeks interviewing those seeking reappointment and outside candidates. 
 For the Westchester County executive, Andrew J. Spano, the turnover is an opportunity to attract new blood and tap areas of expertise that could prove helpful to the medical center, which has struggled with huge deficits and rounds of layoffs. The legislature plans to recommend candidates for the vacancies in early October, subject to Mr. Spano's approval.
 ''These are not lifetime appointments,'' said Larry Schwartz, the deputy county executive. ''It's a healthy process for the medical center, especially in grappling with their financial challenges, to bring in a fresh pair of eyes.''
 Mr. Spano and the chairman of the legislature, William J. Ryan, both Democrats, have indicated their support for at least two new candidates: Richard L. Weill, the former president of MBIA, a leading bond insurer, and Dennis Mehiel, a multimillionaire businessman and state chairman of Senator John Kerry's presidential campaign. Mr. Mehiel is currently a nonvoting member of the board.
 Even though the medical center became independent of the county in 1998, ties between the two remain. The county guarantees a large portion of the hospital's debt, for instance, and the county executive controls the makeup of almost half the board, which has 15 voting members.
 The other eight voting members are appointed by the governor, and the terms of two of those board members expired two years ago, while that of a third is set to expire in early October. Typically, board members continue to serve after their terms expire, as they have in this case, and they are reappointed, or until a new appointment is made.
 The medical center, a 1,000-bed hospital in Valhalla that offers highly advanced care and serves the Hudson Valley, faces a projected $41 million deficit for this year, hospital officials say, down from an $83 million loss last year, and they predict that the medical center will turn the corner in 2006.
 Earlier this year, the hospital eliminated a dozen top management positions, along with 144 lower-level jobs, and it suspended its heart transplant program. The hospital's credit rating has been repeatedly downgraded, most recently to the equivalent of junk, and the New York State comptroller's office has begun an in-depth audit of the hospital.
 Overseeing the financial crisis is the board of directors. The board voted to bring in an outside management firm and then prodded the interim president it provided, Mary Brown, to be even more aggressive in her financial improvement plan, members said.
 Despite the stresses of being in the hot seat, five of the six board members whose terms have expired want another five-year term. Against a more favorable financial backdrop, reappointment would be practically assured, county and hospital officials say privately.
 But because of the crisis, even such prominent Westchester figures on the board as Alfred B. DelBello have had to make their case to the legislature. Mr. DelBello was county executive when the hospital was built in the 1970's. He was also a lieutenant governor and mayor of Yonkers.
 In an interview, Mr. DelBello called the board's work grueling, but satisfying. ''It's been very tough,'' he said. ''But those of us who have been involved in trying to turn it around feel an obligation to see it through.''
 The one board member who is not seeking reappointment by the county is Dr. George E. Reed, the center's former medical director. Dr. Reed, 81, said he was ready to spend more time with his family. 
 Martin D. Arrick, a managing director at Standard & Poor's, the credit-rating agency, encouraged the county to take advantage of the turnover. ''I would agree with any move to enhance the overall strength of the board in terms of professionalism and skill sets,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); BONDS (70%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (70%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



24 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Its Recruitment Goals Pressing, the Army Will Ease Some Standards

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
To help meet its recruiting goals at a time when its forces are strained by operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Army has lowered some requirements for recruits.
 The changes are among the clearest signs yet of the military's growing problems in recruiting and retaining soldiers. They mean that many hundreds of prospective recruits who would have been rejected in the past could be enlisted.
 Army officials characterize the changes as modest, reasonable and well within quality standards mandated by the Pentagon and Congress. But they amount to the first relaxation in Army recruiting standards since 1998, when a strong economy hurt military recruiting. 
 Army officials said Thursday that for the recruiting year that started this week, at least 90 percent of new recruits must be high school graduates, compared with 92 percent last year. And up to 2 percent of recruits can be enlisted even if they scored in the lowest acceptable range on a service aptitude test, compared with 1.5 percent last year.
 Given the total of 101,200 incoming soldiers whom the Army and the Army Reserve say they need this year, the changes mean that as many as 2,000 or so recruits who would have previously been rejected could be enlisted.
 ''In difficult recruiting environments, it is inevitable that either quality standards or recruiting resources be subject to adjustment,'' said Richard I. Stark Jr., a retired Army colonel who is a military personnel specialist at the Center for Strategic and International Studies here. ''The Army has been forced to adjust to both.''
 The Army's decision to loosen standards comes amid calls for the House Armed Services Committee to investigate accusations by some Iraq war veterans that, nearing the end of their enlistments, they are being pressured to choose between re-enlisting on one hand and being sent back to Iraq with another unit on the other. Army officials have denied using any such approach to encourage re-enlistment.
 In another sign of strains within the Army, more than 35 percent of nearly 3,900 former soldiers mobilized for yearlong assignments in a little-used wartime program have resisted their call-up, seeking delays or exemptions. Some of the former soldiers, members of the Individual Ready Reserve, may face criminal charges for failing to report, Army officials said.
 The strains of Iraq and Afghanistan have energized a bipartisan effort in Congress to increase the size of the Army by 20,000 to 30,000 soldiers, have helped to spur calls by Senator John Kerry to enlarge the Army by 40,000 and have prompted many lawmakers to warn of a tough challenge for recruiters.
 ''Recruiting for the United States Army is going to be a major challenge in the days ahead,'' Representative Ike Skelton of Missouri, the senior Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee, said this week. ''You are wearing them out.''
 Officials said Thursday that the Army met most of its goals for the 2004 recruiting year, which ended on Monday. The active-duty Army exceeded its recruiting target of 77,000 soldiers by 587, and the Army Reserve exceeded its goal of 21,200 by 78, according to Douglas Smith, spokesman for the Army Recruiting Command, at Fort Knox, Ky. But the Army National Guard missed its recruiting target of 56,000 soldiers by 5,000, the first shortfall by the Guard since 1994.
 One main reason the Army has changed its quality standards is that it is entering the new 12-month recruiting cycle from one of its worst starting points in a decade.
 Typically, the Army wants to enter each recruiting cycle with a cushion of incoming volunteers whose entry has been deferred from the previous year -- about 35 percent of the service's overall goal for the year. But several weeks ago the Army projected that it would reach only 25 percent, and officials said Thursday that the cushion was 18 percent.
 As is typical in years when it starts with so few recruits already identified, the Army is adopting a range of incentives including bonuses, educational benefits and choice base assignments to help meet recruiting and retention goals. In addition, it is bringing on 1,000 new recruiters.
 At the same time, aides to two Colorado lawmakers, Representatives Diana DeGette, a Democrat, and Joel Hefley, a Republican, say their offices have received calls from several soldiers at Fort Carson, Colo., as well as Fort Riley, Kan., and Fort Lewis, Wash., complaining of pressure to re-enlist with the alternative being deployment to Iraq.
 One sergeant at Fort Carson, who served nearly a year in Iraq with the Fourth Infantry Division's Third Brigade and whose enlistment is to end in February 2006, said Thursday that rather than re-enlist, he would risk the chance of being reassigned to a unit bound for Iraq.
 ''I can understand we're in a war, and extraordinary things happen in war, but the Army is moving the goal posts on me,'' the sergeant said in a telephone interview, speaking on condition of anonymity.
 A spokesman for Fort Carson, Lt. Col. Dave Johnson, said a new Army program to create more-stable units whose members will stay together for three years required troops whose enlistments end before December 2007 to re-enlist, extend their current enlistments a bit or take no action and possibly be assigned to another unit.
 But Colonel Johnson said the Army was looking closely at each soldier's record and was not using the threat of Iraq deployment to increase re-enlistments. ''We're not strong-arming anyone,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A recruiter for the Army had very little company the other day at the Armed Forces Career Center in downtown Oakland, Calif. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)
 Recruiters, like this one in Philadelphia, are offering a variety of inducements, like bonuses, educational benefits and choice base assignments. (Photo by Ryan Donnell for The New York Times)Chart: ''In Search of Recruits''Typically, the Army tries to begin each recruiting year with about 35 percent of its overall goal for the year filled with incoming soldiers recruited the previous year. For 2005, the Army is beginning with only 18 percent of the goal filled.Graph tracks percentage of goal filled at start of recruiting year since 1994.(Source by U.S. Army Recruiting Command)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (96%); MILITARY RECRUITING (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); VETERANS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (55%); HIGH SCHOOLS (54%) United States Armament and Defense; Draft and Recruitment (Military); Admissions Standards; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); IKE SKELTON (55%) Eric Schmitt

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



25 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 13930 words

HEADLINE: Transcript of the Candidates' First Debate in the Presidential Campaign

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of the presidential debate last night in Coral Gables, Fla., between President Bush and Senator John Kerry, as recorded by The New York Times. The moderator was Jim Lehrer of the Public Broadcasting Service.

Mr. Lehrer -- Good evening from the University of Miami Convocation Center in Coral Gables, Fla. I'm Jim Lehrer of ''The NewsHour'' on PBS, and I welcome you to the first of the 2004 presidential debates between President George W. Bush, the Republican nominee, and Senator John Kerry, the Democratic nominee.
 These debates are sponsored by the Commission on Presidential Debates. Tonight's will last 90 minutes following detailed rules of engagement worked out by representatives of the candidates. I have agreed to enforce their rules on them. The umbrella topic is foreign policy and homeland security, but the specific subjects were chosen by me, the questions were composed by me, the candidates have not been told what they are nor has anyone else. 
 For each question there can only be a two-minute response, a 90-second rebuttal and, at my discretion, a discussion extension of one minute. A green light will come on when 30 seconds remain in any given answer, yellow at 15, red at 5 seconds and then flashing red means time's up. There is also a backup buzzer system if needed. Candidates may not direct a question to each other, there will be two-minute closing statements but no opening statements.
 There is an audience here in the hall but they will remain absolutely silent for the next 90 minutes except for now when they join me in welcoming President Bush and Senator Kerry.
 Good evening, Mr. President, Senator Kerry. As determined by a coin toss, the first question goes to you, Senator Kerry. You have two minutes.
 Do you believe you could do a better job than President Bush in preventing another 9/11-type terrorist attack on the United States?

Mr. Kerry -- Yes, I do. But before I answer further, let me thank you for moderating. I want to thank the University of Miami for hosting us. And I know the president will join me in welcoming all of Florida to this debate. You've been through the roughest weeks anybody could imagine. Our hearts go out to you, and we admire your pluck and perseverance.
 I can make America safer than President Bush has made us. And I believe President Bush and I both love our country equally, but we just have a different set of convictions about how you make America safe. I believe America is safest and strongest when we are leading the world and when we are leading strong alliances. I'll never give a veto to any country over our security, but I also know how to lead those alliances. This president has left them in shatters across the globe, and we're now 90 percent of the casualties in Iraq and 90 percent of the costs. I think that's wrong, and I think we can do better. 
 I have a better plan for homeland security. I have a better plan to be able to fight the war on terror by strengthening our military, strengthening our intelligence, by going after the financing more authoritatively, by doing what we need to do to rebuild the alliances, by reaching out to the Muslim world, which the president has almost not done, and beginning to isolate the radical Islamic Muslims, not have them isolate the United States of America.
 I know I can do a better job in Iraq where I have a plan to have a summit with all of the allies, something this president has not yet achieved, not yet been able to do to bring people to the table. 
 We can do a better job of training the Iraqi forces to defend themselves and I know that we can do a better job of preparing for elections.
 All of these and especially homeland security, which we'll talk about a little bit later.

Mr. Lehrer -- Ninety-second rebuttal.

Mr. Bush -- I too thank the University of Miami and say our prayers are with the good people of this state who've suffered a lot.
 Sept. 11 changed how America must look at the world. And since that day our nation has been on a multipronged strategy to keep our country safer. We've pursued Al Qaeda wherever Al Qaeda tries to hide. Seventy-five percent of known Al Qaeda leaders have been brought to justice. The rest of them know we're after them.
 We've upheld the doctrine that said if you harbor a terrorist you're equally as guilty as the terrorist -- the Taliban no longer in power, 10 million people have registered to vote in Afghanistan in the upcoming presidential election.
 In Iraq we saw a threat and we realized that after Sept. 11 we must take threats seriously before they fully materialize. Saddam Hussein now sits in a prison cell. America and the world are safer for it.
 We continue to pursue our policy of disrupting those who proliferate weapons of mass destruction. Libya has disarmed. The A.Q. Khan network has been brought to justice.
 And as well we're pursuing a strategy of freedom around the world. Because I understand free nations will reject terror. Free nations will answer the hopes and aspirations of their people. Free nations will help us achieve the peace we all want.

Mr. Lehrer -- New question, Mr. President. Two minutes. Do you believe the election of Senator Kerry on Nov. 2 would increase the chances of the U.S. being hit by another 9/11-type terrorist attack?

Mr. Bush -- I don't believe it's going to happen. I believe I'm going to win because the American people know I know how to lead. I've shown the American people I know how to lead. I have -- I understand everybody in this country doesn't agree with the decisions that I've made. And I've made some tough decisions. But people know where I stand. People out there listening know what I believe. And that's how best it is to keep the peace.
 This nation of ours has got a solemn duty to defeat this ideology of hate. And that's what they are, this is a group of killers who will not only kill here but kill children in Russia. That will attack unmercifully in Iraq hoping to shake our will. We have a duty to defeat this enemy. We have a duty to protect our children and grandchildren. 
 The best way to defeat them is to never waver, to be strong, to use every asset at our disposal. It's to constantly stay on the offensive. And at the same time spread liberty. And that's what people are seeing now is happening in Afghanistan. Ten million citizens have registered to vote. It's a phenomenal statistic. That if given a chance to be free they will show up at the polls. Forty-one percent of those 10 million are women.
 In Iraq, no doubt about it, it's tough. It's hard work. It's incredibly hard. You know why? Because an enemy realizes the stakes. The enemy understands a free Iraq will be a major defeat in their ideology of hatred. That's why they're fighting so vociferously. 
 They showed up in Afghanistan when they were there because they tried to beat us and they didn't. And they're showing up in Iraq for the same reason. They're trying to defeat us and if we lose our will we lose. But if we remain strong and resolute we will defeat this enemy. 

Mr. Lehrer -- Ninety-second response, Senator Kerry.

Mr. Kerry -- I believe in being strong and resolute and determined. And I will hunt down and kill the terrorists wherever they are. But we also have to be smart, Jim. And smart means not diverting your attention from the real war on terror in Afghanistan against Osama bin Laden and taking it off to Iraq where the 9/11 commission confirms there was no connection to 9/11 itself and Saddam Hussein. And where the reason for going to war was weapons of mass destruction, not the removal of Saddam Hussein.
 This president has made, I regret to say, a colossal error of judgment. And judgment is what we look for in the president of the United States of America.
 I'm proud that important military figures are supporting me in this race. Former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff John Shalikashvili. Just yesterday General Eisenhower's son, General John Eisenhower endorsed me. Adm. William Crowe, Gen. Tony McPeak, who ran the Air Force war so effectively for his father, all believe I would make a stronger commander in chief. 
 And they believe it because they know I would not take my eye off of the goal, Osama bin Laden. Unfortunately, he escaped in the mountains of Tora Bora. We had him surrounded. But we didn't use American forces, the best trained in the world, to go kill him. The president relied on Afghan warlords that he outsourced that job to. That's wrong. 

Mr. Lehrer -- New question, two minutes, Senator Kerry. Colossal misjudgments, what colossal misjudgments, in your opinion, has President Bush made in these areas?

Mr. Kerry -- Well, where do you want me to begin? First of all, he made the misjudgment of saying to America that he was going to build a true alliance, that he would exhaust the remedies of the United Nations and go through the inspections. In fact, he first didn't even want to do that. And it wasn't until former Secretary of State Jim Baker and General Scowcroft and others pushed publicly and said, you've got to go to the U.N., that the president finally changed his mind -- his campaign has a word for that -- and went to the United Nations. Now once there, we could have continued those inspections. We had Saddam Hussein trapped.
 He also promised America that he would go to war as a last resort. Those words mean something to me, as somebody who's been in combat: last resort. You've got to be able to look in the eyes of families and say to those parents, ''I tried to do everything in my power to prevent the loss of your son and daughter.'' I don't believe the United States did that. And we pushed our allies aside. And so today we are 90 percent of the casualties and 90 percent costs -- $200 billion, $200 billion that could have been used for health care, for schools, for construction, for prescription drugs for seniors. 
 And it's in Iraq. And Iraq is not even the center of the focus on the war on terror. The center is Afghanistan where, incidentally, there were more Americans killed last year than the year before, where the opium production is 75 percent of the world's opium production, where 40 to 60 percent of the economy of Afghanistan is based on opium, where the elections have been postponed three times. The president moved the troops there, he's got 10 times the number of troops in Iraq than he has in Afghanistan where Osama bin Laden is. Does that mean that Saddam Hussein was 10 times more important than Osama bin -- than, excuse me -- Saddam Hussein more important than Osama bin Laden? I don't think so.

Mr. Lehrer -- Ninety-second response, Mr. President.

Mr. Bush -- My opponent looked at the same intelligence I looked at and declared in 2002 that Saddam Hussein was a grave threat. He also said in December of 2003 that anyone who doubts that the world is safer without Saddam Hussein does not have the judgment to be president. I agree with him. The world is better off without Saddam Hussein.
 I was hoping diplomacy would work. I understand the serious consequences of committing our troops into harm's way. It's the hardest decision a president makes. So I went to the United Nations. I didn't need anybody to tell me to go to the United Nations. I decided to go there myself. And I went there hoping that once and for all the free world would act in concert to get Saddam Hussein to listen to our demands. They passed a resolution that said disclose, disarm or face serious consequences. I believe when an international body speaks, it must mean what it says. But Saddam Hussein had no intention of disarming. Why should he? He had 16 other resolutions and nothing took place. As a matter of fact, my opponent talks about inspectors. The facts are that he was systematically deceiving the inspectors. That wasn't going to work. That's kind of a pre-Sept. 10 mentality, the hope that somehow resolutions and failed inspections would make this world a more peaceful place. He was hoping we'd turn away. But there's, fortunately, others beside myself who believed that we ought to take action; we did. The world is safer without Saddam Hussein.

Mr. Lehrer -- New question, Mr. President. Two minutes. What about Senator Kerry's point, the comparison he drew between the priorities of going after Osama bin Laden and going after Saddam Hussein?

Mr. Bush -- Jim, we've got the capability of doing both. As a matter of fact, this is a global effort. We're facing a group of folks who have such hatred in their heart they'll strike anywhere, with any means. And that's why it's essential that we have strong alliances, and we do. That's why it's essential that we make sure that we keep weapons of mass destruction out of the hands of people like Al Qaeda, which we are.
 But to say that there's only one focus on the war on terror doesn't really understand the nature of the war of terror. Of course we're after Saddam Hussein -- I mean bin Laden. He's isolated. Seventy-five percent of his people have been brought to justice. The killer in, the mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks, Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, is in prison. We're making progress.
 But the front on this war is more than just one place. The Philippines. We've got help, we're helping them there to bring, to bring Al Qaeda affiliates to justice there. 
 And of course Iraq is a central part of the war on terror. That's why Zarqawi and his people are trying to fight us. Their hope is that we grow weary and we leave. The biggest disaster that could happen is that we not succeed in Iraq. We will succeed. We've got a plan to do so. And the main reason we'll succeed is because the Iraqis want to be free. 
 Had the honor of visiting the Prime Minister Allawi. He's a strong, courageous leader. He believes in the freedom of the Iraqi people. He doesn't want U.S. leadership, however, to send mixed signals, to not stand with the Iraqi people. He believes, like I believe, that the Iraqis are ready to fight for their own freedom. They just need the help to be trained. There will be elections in January. We're spending reconstruction money. And our alliance is strong. That's the plan for victory. And when Iraq is free America will be more secure.

Mr. Lehrer -- Senator Kerry, 90 seconds.

Mr. Kerry -- The president just talked about Iraq as a center of the war on terror. Iraq was not even close to the center of the war on terror before the president invaded it. The president made the judgment to divert forces from under Gen. Tommy Franks from Afghanistan before the Congress even approved it, to begin to prepare to go to war in Iraq.
 And he rushed to war in Iraq without a plan to win the peace. Now that is not the judgment that a president of the United States ought to make. You don't take America to war unless you have a plan to win the peace. You don't send troops to war without the body armor that they need. 
 I've met kids in Ohio, parents in Wisconsin, places, Iowa, where they're going out on the Internet to get the state-of-the-art body gear to send to their kids. Some of them got them for birthday presents. I think that's wrong. Humvees, 10,000 out of 12,000 Humvees that are over there aren't armored. And you go visit some of those kids in the hospitals today who were maimed because they don't have the armament. 
 This president just, I don't know if he sees what's really happening there. But it's getting worse by the day. More soldiers killed in June than before. More in July than June. More in August than July. More in September than in August. 
 And now we see beheadings. And we've got weapons of mass destruction crossing the border every single day. And they're blowing people up. And we don't have enough troops there. 

Mr. Bush -- Can I respond?

Mr. Lehrer -- Let's do one of these one-minute extensions. You have 30 seconds.

Mr. Bush -- Thank you, sir. First of all, what my opponent wants you to forget is that he voted to authorize the use of force. And now says it's the wrong war at the wrong time at the wrong place.
 I don't see how you can lead this country to succeed in Iraq if you say wrong war, wrong time, wrong place. What message does that send our troops? What messages does that send our allies? What message does that send the Iraqis? 
 No, the way to win this is to be steadfast and resolved and to follow through on the plan that I just outlined. 

Mr. Lehrer -- Thirty seconds, Senator.

Mr. Kerry -- Yes, we have to be steadfast and resolved. And I am. And I will succeed for those troops now that we're there. We have to succeed. We can't leave a failed Iraq. But that doesn't mean it wasn't a mistake of judgment to go there and take the focus off of Osama bin Laden. It was. Now we can succeed. But I don't believe this president can. I think we need a president who has the credibility to bring the allies back to the table and to do what's necessary to make it so America isn't doing this alone.

Mr. Lehrer -- We'll come back to Iraq in a moment. But I want to come back to where I began on homeland security. This is a two-minute new question, Senator Kerry. As president, what would you do specifically in addition to or differently to increase the homeland security of the United States than what President Bush is doing?

Mr. Kerry -- Jim, let me tell you exactly what I'll do. And there are a long list of things. First of all, what kind of mixed message does it send when you've got $500 million going over to Iraq to put police officers in the streets of Iraq and the president is cutting the cops program in America? What kind of message does it send to be sending money to open firehouses in Iraq but we're shutting firehouses, who are the first responders here in America? The president hasn't put one nickel -- not one nickel -- into the effort to fix some of our tunnels and bridges and most exposed subway systems. That's why they had to close down the subway in New York when the Republican convention was there. We haven't done the work that ought to be done.
 The president -- 95 percent of the containers that come into the ports, right here in Florida, are not inspected. Civilians get onto aircraft and their luggage is X-rayed, but the cargo hold is not X-rayed. Does that make you feel safer in America?
 This president thought it was more important to give the wealthiest people in America a tax cut rather than invest in homeland security. Those aren't my values. I believe in protecting America first. And long before President Bush and I get a tax cut -- and that's who gets it -- long before we do, I'm going to invest in homeland security and I'm going to make sure we're not cutting cops programs in America and we're fully staffed in our firehouses and that we protect the nuclear and chemical plants.
 The president, also unfortunately, gave in to the chemical industry, which didn't want to do some of the things necessary to strengthen our chemical plant exposure. And there's an enormous undone job to protect the loose nuclear materials in the world that are able to get to terrorists. That's a whole other subject. 
 But I see we still have a little bit more time. Let me just quickly say, at the current pace, the president will not secure the loose material in the Soviet Union, former Soviet Union, for 13 years. I'm going to do it in four years. And we're going to keep it out of the hands of terrorists.

Mr. Lehrer -- Ninety-second response, Mr. President.

Mr. Bush -- I don't think we want to get to how he's going to pay for all these promises. It's like a huge tax gap and -- anyway, that's for another debate.
 My administration has tripled the amount of money we're spending on homeland security to $30 billion a year. My administration worked with the Congress to create the Department of Homeland Security so we could better coordinate our borders and ports. We've got 1,000 extra borders and ports. We've got 1,000 extra Border Patrol on the southern border, more than 1,000 on the northern border. We're modernizing our borders. We spent $3.1 billion for fire and police -- $3.1 billion. 
 Now, we're doing our duty to provide the funding, but the best way to protect this homeland is to stay on the offense. You know, we have to be right 100 percent of the time, and the enemy only has to be right once to hurt us. There's a lot of good people working hard. And by the way, we've also changed the culture of the F.B.I. to have counterterrorism as its No. 1 priority. We're communicating better. We're going to reform our intelligence services to make sure that we get the best intelligence possible. The Patriot Act is vital -- it's vital that the Congress renew the Patriot Act, which enables our law enforcement to disrupt terrorist cells.
 But again, I repeat to my fellow citizens, the best way to protect you is to stay on the offense.

Mr. Lehrer -- Yes, 30 seconds.

Mr. Kerry -- The president just said the F.B.I. changed its culture. We just read on the front pages of America's papers that there are over a hundred-thousand hours of tapes unlistened to. On one of those tapes may be the enemy being right the next time.
 And the test is not whether you're spending more money. The test is are you doing everything possible to make America safe. We didn't need that tax cut. America needed to be safe.

Mr. Bush -- Of course we're doing everything we can to protect America. I wake up every day thinking about how best to protect America. That's my job. I work with Director Mueller of the F.B.I. He comes into my office when I'm in Washington every morning talking about how to protect us. There's a lot of really good people working hard to do so. It's hard work
 But again I want to tell the American people: We're doing everything we can at home, but you better have a president who chases these terrorists down and brings them to justice before they hurt us again.

Mr. Lehrer -- New question, Mr. President. Two minutes. What criteria would you use to determine when to start bringing U.S. troops home from Iraq?

Mr. Bush -- Uh, let me first tell you that the best way for Iraq to be safe and secure is for Iraqi citizens to be trained to do the job. And that's what we're doing. We've got a hundred thousand trained now, 125,000 by the end of this year, over 200,000 by the end of this year. That is the best way.
 We'll never succeed in Iraq if the Iraqi citizens do not want to take matters into their own hands to protect themselves. I believe they want to. Prime Minister Allawi believes they want to.
 And so the best indication about when we can bring our troops home, which I really want to do--but I don't want to do so for the sake of bringing them home, I want to do so because we've achieved an objective--is to see the Iraqis perform, is to see the Iraqis step up and take responsibility.
 And so the answer to your question is when our generals on the ground and Ambassador Negroponte tells me that Iraq is ready to defend herself from these terrorists, that elections will have been held by then, that there's stability and that they're on their way to, you know, a nation of, that's free. That's when.
 And I hope it's as soon as possible. But I know putting artificial deadlines won't work. My opponent at one time said, well, get me elected, I'll have them out of there in six months. That's, you can't do that and expect to win the war on terror.
 My message to our troops is thank you for what you're doing. We're standing with you strong. We'll give you all the equipment you need. And we'll get you home as soon as the mission's done. 
 Because this is a vital mission. A free Iraq will be an ally in the war on terror. And that's essential. A free Iraq will set a powerful example in the part of the world that is desperate for freedom. A free Iraq will help secure Israel. A free Iraq will enforce the hopes and aspirations of the reformers in places like Iran. A free Iraq is essential for the security of this country.

Mr. Lehrer -- Ninety seconds, Senator Kerry.

Mr. Kerry -- Thank you, Jim. My message to the troops is also thank you for what they're doing. But it's also help is on the way. I believe those troops deserve better than what they are getting today.
 You know, it's interesting, when I was in a rope line just the other day coming out here from Wisconsin a couple of young returnees were in the line, one active duty, one from the Guard. And they both looked at me and said, ''We need you. You've got to help us over there.'' 
 Now I believe there's a better way to do this. You know the president's father did not go into Iraq into Baghdad beyond Basra. And the reason he didn't is he said, he wrote in his book because there was no viable exit strategy. And he said our troops would be occupiers in a bitterly hostile land. That's exactly where we find ourselves today. There's a sense of American occupation.
 The only building that was guarded when the troops went into Baghdad was the oil ministry. We didn't guard the nuclear facilities. We didn't guard the foreign office where you might have found information about weapons of mass destruction. We didn't guard the borders. 
 Almost every step of the way our troops have been left on these extraordinarily difficult missions. I know what it's like to go out on one of those missions where you don't know what's around the corner. And I believe our troops need other allies helping. I'm going to hold that summit. I will bring fresh credibility, a new start. And we will get the job done right. 

Mr. Bush -- Jim.

Mr. Lehrer -- All right, go ahead, yes, sir.

Mr. Bush -- I think it's worthy for a follow-up if you don't mind.

Mr. Kerry -- Let's change the rules we can have a--

Mr. Lehrer -- We can do 30 seconds each here.

Mr. Bush -- All right. My opponent says help is on the way, but what kind of message does that say to our troops in harm's way? Wrong war, wrong place, wrong time. That's not a message a commander in chief gives. Or this is a great diversion.
 As well, help is on the way, but it's certainly hard to tell it when he voted against the $87 billion supplemental to provide equipment for our troops. And then said he actually did vote for it before he voted against it. It's not what a commander in chief does when you're trying to lead troops. 

Mr. Lehrer -- Senator Kerry, 30 seconds.

Mr. Kerry -- Well, you know when I talked about the $87 billion I made a mistake in how I talk about the war. But the president made a mistake in invading Iraq. Which is worse?
 I believe that when you know something's going wrong you make it right. That's what I learned in Vietnam. When I came back from that war I saw that it was wrong. Some people don't like the fact that I stood up to say no. But I did. And that's what I did with that vote. And I'm going to lead those troops to victory.

Mr. Lehrer -- All right, new question, two minutes, Senator Kerry. Speaking of Vietnam, you spoke to Congress in 1971 after you came back from Vietnam and you said, ''How do you ask a man to be the last man to die for a mistake?'' Are Americans now dying in Iraq for a mistake?

Mr. Kerry -- No, and they don't have to, providing we have the leadership that we put--that I'm offering. I believe that we have to win this. The president and I have always agreed on that. And from the beginning I did vote to give the authority because I thought Saddam Hussein was a threat, and I did accept that intelligence.
 But I also laid out a very strict series of things we needed to do in order to proceed from a position of strength. And the president, in fact, promised them. He went to Cincinnati and he gave a speech in which he said, ''We will plan carefully. We will proceed cautiously. We will not make war inevitable. We will go with our allies.'' 
 He didn't do any of those things. They didn't do the planning. They left the planning of the State Department in the State Department desks. They avoided even the advice of their own general, General Shinseki, the Army chief of staff, said, you're going to need several hundred-thousand troops. Instead of listening to him, they retired him.
 The terrorism czar, who has worked for every president since Ronald Reagan, said invading Iraq in response to 9/11 would be like Franklin Roosevelt invading Mexico in response to Pearl Harbor. That's what we have here. 
 And what we need now is a president who understands how to bring these other countries together to recognize their stakes in this. They do have stakes in it. They've always had stakes in it. The Arab countries have a stake in not having a civil war. The European countries have a stake in not having total disorder on their doorstep. 
 But this president hasn't even held the kind of statesman-like summits that pull people together and get them to invest in those stakes. In fact, he's done the opposite. He pushed them away.
 When the secretary general, Kofi Annan, offered the United Nations, he said, ''No, no, we'll go do this alone.'' To save for Halliburton the spoils of the war, they actually issued a memorandum from the Defense Department saying, if you weren't with us in the war, don't bother applying for any construction. That's not a way to invite people.

Mr. Lehrer -- Ninety seconds.

Mr. Bush -- That's totally absurd. Of course the U.N. was invited in. And we support the U.N. efforts there. They pulled out after Sergio de Mello got killed. But they're now back in helping with elections.
 My opponent says we didn't have any allies in this war? What's he say to Tony Blair? What's he say to Aleksander Kwasniewski of Poland. I mean you can't expect to build alliances, when you denigrate the contributions of those who are serving side by side with American troops in Iraq.
 Plus, he says the cornerstone of his plan to succeed in Iraq is to call upon nations to serve. So what's the message going to be? Please join us in Iraq for a grand diversion? Join us for a war that is the wrong war at the wrong place at the wrong time. I know how these people think. I deal with them all the time. I sit down with the world leaders frequently and talk to them on the phone frequently. They're not going to follow somebody who says this is the wrong war at the wrong place at the wrong time. They're not going to follow somebody who's core convictions keep changing because of politics in America.
 And finally, he says we ought to have a summit where there are summits being held. Japan is going to have a summit for the donors. There's $14 billion pledged and Prime Minister Koizumi is going to call countries to account to get them to contribute. And there's going to be an Arab summit of the neighborhood countries and Colin Powell helped -- helped set up that summit.

Mr. Lehrer -- Thirty seconds, Senator.

Mr. Kerry -- The United Nations, Kofi Annan, offered help after Baghdad fell, and we never picked them up on that and did what was necessary to transfer authority and to transfer reconstruction. It was always American-run.
 Secondly, when we went in there were three countries: Great Britain, Australia and the United States. That's not a grand coalition. We can do better.

Mr. Lehrer -- Thirty seconds, Mr. President.

Mr. Bush -- Well, actually you forgot Poland. And now there's 30 nations involved--standing side by side with our American troops. And I honor their sacrifices. And I don't appreciate it when a candidate for president denigrates the contributions of these brave, brave soldiers. It's--you cannot lead the world if you do not honor the contributions of those who are with us. He called them the coerced and the bribed. That's not how you bring people together.
 Our coalition is strong, it'll remain strong for my--so long as I'm the president.

Mr. Lehrer -- New question, Mr. President. Two minutes. You have said there was a ''miscalculation'' of what the conditions would be in post-war Iraq. What was the miscalculation? And how did it happen?

Mr. Bush -- No, what I said was that because we achieved such a rapid victory more of the Saddam loyalists were around. Other words, we thought we'd whip more of them going in.
 But because Tommy Franks did such a great job in planning the operations, we moved rapidly. And a lot of the Baathists and Saddam loyalists laid down their arms and disappeared. I thought we would, they would stay and fight. But they didn't. And now we're fighting them now.
 It's--and it's hard work. I understand how hard it is. I get the casualty reports every day. I see on the TV screens how hard it is. But it's necessary work.
 And I'm optimistic. See, I think you can be realistic and optimistic at the same time. I'm optimistic we'll achieve. I know we won't achieve if we send mixed signals. I know we're not going to achieve our objective if we send mixed signals to our troops, our friends, the Iraqi citizens.
 We've got a plan in place. The plan says there'll be elections in January, and there will be. The plan says we'll train Iraqi soldiers so they can do the hard work, and we are. 
 And it's not only just America, but NATO is now helping, Jordan's helping train police, U.A.E. is helping train police. We've allocated $7 billion over the next months for reconstruction efforts. And we're making progress there.
 And our alliance is strong. I just told you there's going to be a summit of the Arab nations. Japan will be hosting a summit. 
 We're making progress. It is hard work. It is hard work to go from a tyranny to a democracy. It's hard work to go from a place where people get their hands cut off or executed to a place where people are free. But it's necessary work. And a free Iraq is going to make this world a more peaceful place.

Mr. Lehrer -- Ninety seconds, Senator Kerry.

Mr. Kerry -- What I think troubles a lot of people in our country is that the president has just sort of described one kind of mistake. But what he has said is that even knowing there were no weapons of mass destruction, even knowing there was no imminent threat, even knowing there was no connection of Al Qaeda, he would still have done everything the same way. Those are his words.
 Now I would not. So what I'm trying to do is just talk the truth to the American people and to the world. The truth is what good policy is based on. It's what leadership is based on. 
 The president says that I'm denigrating these troops. I have nothing but respect for the British and for Tony Blair and for what they've been willing to do. But you can't tell me that when the most troops any other country has on the ground is Great Britain with 8,300. And below that the four others are below 4,000. And below that there isn't anybody out of the hundreds. That we have a genuine coalition to get this job done. 
 You can't tell me that on the day that we went into that war and it started it wasn't principally the United States of America and Great Britain and one or two others. That's it. 
 And today we are 90 percent of the casualties and 90 percent of the costs. And meanwhile North Korea has gotten nuclear weapons. Talk about mixed messages. The president is the one who said we can't allow countries to get nuclear weapons. They have. I'll change that.

Mr. Lehrer -- New question, Senator Kerry, two minutes. You have repeatedly accused President Bush, not here tonight but elsewhere before, of not telling the truth about Iraq, essentially, of lying to the American people about Iraq. Give us some examples of what you consider to be his not telling the truth.

Mr. Kerry -- Well, I've never ever used the harshest word as you did just then and I try not to. I've been -- but I'll nevertheless tell you that I think he has not been candid with the American people. And I'll tell you exactly how. First of all, we all know that in his State of the Union message he told Congress about nuclear materials that didn't exist. We know that he promised America that he was going to build this coalition. I just described the coalition. It is not the kind of coalition we were described when we were talking about voting for this.
 The president said he would exhaust the remedies of the United Nations and go through that full process. He didn't. He cut it off, sort or arbitrarily. And we know that there were further diplomatic efforts under way. They just decided the time for diplomacy is over and rushed to war without planning for what happens afterwards. 
 Now he misled the American people in his speech when he said we will plan carefully. They obviously didn't.
 He misled the American people when he said we'd go to war as a last resort. We did not go as a last resort. And most Americans know the difference. 
 Now this has cost us deeply in the world. I believe that it is important to tell the truth to the American people. I've worked with those leaders the president talks about. I've worked with them for 20 years, for longer than this president. And I know what many of them say today and I know how to bring them back to the table. 
 And I believe that a fresh start, new credibility, a president who can understand what we have to do to reach out to the Muslim world to make it clear that this is not -- you know, Osama bin Laden uses the invasion of Iraq in order to go out to people and say America has declared war on Islam. 
 We need to be smarter about how we wage a war on terror. We need to deny them the recruits. We need to deny them the safe havens. We need to rebuild our alliances. I believe that Ronald Reagan, John Kennedy and others did that more effectively. And I'm going to try to follow in their footsteps. 

Mr. Lehrer -- Ninety seconds, Mr. President.

Mr. Bush -- My opponent just said something amazing. He said Osama bin Laden uses the invasion of Iraq as an excuse to spread hatred for America. Osama bin Laden isn't going to determine how we defend ourselves. Osama bin Laden doesn't get to decide. The American people decide. I decided. The right action was in Iraq. My opponent calls it a mistake. It wasn't a mistake. He said I misled on Iraq. I don't think he was misleading when he called Iraq a grave threat in the fall of 2002. I don't think he was misleading when he said that it was right to disarm Iraq in the spring of 2003. I don't think he misled you when he said that, you know, if -- anyone who doubted whether the world was better off without Saddam Hussein in power didn't have the judgment to be president. I don't think he was misleading.
 I think what is misleading is to say you can lead and succeed in Iraq if you keep changing your positions on this war, and he has. As the politics change, his positions change. And that's not how a commander in chief acts.
 I--let me finish. The intelligence I looked at was the same intelligence my opponent looked at. It's the very same intelligence. And when I stood up there and spoke to the Congress, I was speaking off the same intelligence he looked at to make his decision to support the authorization of force.

Mr. Lehrer -- Ninety--30 seconds. We'll do a 30-second here.

Mr. Kerry -- I wasn't misleading when I said he was a threat. Nor was I misleading on the day that the president decided to go to war when I said that he had made a mistake in not building strong alliances and that I would have preferred that he did more diplomacy.
 I've had one position, one consistent position: that Saddam Hussein was a threat, there was a right way to disarm him and a wrong way. And the president chose the wrong way.

Mr. Lehrer -- Thirty seconds, Mr. President.

Mr. Bush -- The only consistent about my opponent's position is that he's been inconsistent. He changes positions. And you cannot change positions in this war on terror if you expect to win. And I expect to win. It's necessary we win.
 We're being challenged like never before, and we have a duty to our country and to future generations of America to achieve a free Iraq, a free Afghanistan and to rid the world of weapons of mass destruction.

Mr. Lehrer -- New question, Mr. President. Two minutes. Has the war in Iraq been worth the cost in American lives: 1,052 as of today?

Mr. Bush -- Every life is precious. Every life matters. You know my hardest, the hardest part of the job is to know that I committed the troops in harm's way and then do the best I can to provide comfort for the loves ones who lost a son or a daughter or husband and wife.
 And, you know, I think about Missy Johnson, fantastic young lady I met in Charlotte, N.C., she and her son, Brian. They came to see me. Her husband, P.J., got killed--been in Afghanistan, went to Iraq. You know, it's hard work to try to love her as best as I can knowing full well that the decision I made caused her, her loved one to be in harm's way.
 I told her, after we prayed and teared up and laughed some, that I thought her husband's sacrifice was noble and worthy. Because I understand the stakes of this war on terror. I understand that we must find Al Qaeda wherever they hide, we must deal with threats before they fully materialize, and Saddam Hussein was a threat, and that we must spread liberty because in the long run the way to defeat hatred and tyranny and oppression is to spread freedom.
 Missy understood that. That's what she told me her husband understood. So you say was it worth it? It wasn't--it's--every life is precious. That's what distinguishes us from the enemy. Everybody matters.
 But I think it's worth it, Jim. I think it's worth it because I think, I know in the long term a free Iraq, a free Afghanistan will set such a powerful example in a part of the world that's desperate for freedom. It will help change the world. That we can look back and say we did our duty.

Mr. Lehrer -- Senator, 90 seconds.

Mr. Kerry -- I understand what the president it talking about because I know what it means to lose people in combat. And the question, Is it worth the cost?, reminds me of my own thinking when I came back from fighting in that war. And it reminds me that it is vital for us not to confuse the war--ever--with the warriors. That happened before.
 And that's one of the reasons why I believe I can get this job done. Because I am determined for those soldiers and for those families, for those kids who put their lives on the line. That is noble. That's the most noble thing that anybody can do. And I want to make sure the outcome honors that nobility.
 Now we have a choice here. I've laid out a plan by which I think we can be successful in Iraq: with a summit, by doing better training faster, by cutting -- by doing what we need to do with respect to the U.N. and the elections. There's only 25 percent of the people in there. They can't have an election right now. The president's not getting the job done. 
 So the choice for America is you can have a plan that I've laid out in four points, each of which I can tell you more about or you can go to johnkerry.com and see more of it; or you have the president's plan, which is four words: more of the same. I think my plan is better. And my plan has a better chance of standing up and fighting for those troops. I will never let those troops down. And we'll hunt and kill the terrorists wherever they are.

Mr. Lehrer -- All right, sir, go ahead, 30 seconds.

Mr. Bush -- Yeah, I understand what it means to be the commander in chief. And if I were to ever say this is the wrong war at the wrong time at the wrong place, the troops would wonder how could I follow this guy? You cannot lead the war on terror if you keep changing positions on the war on terror. And say things like well, this is just a grand diversion. It's not a grand diversion. This is an essential that we get it right. And so I, I, the plan he talks about simply won't work.

Mr. Lehrer -- Senator Kerry, you have 30 seconds. Then a new question.

Mr. Kerry -- Secretary of State Colin Powell told this president the Pottery Barn rule, if you break it you fix it. Now if you break it, you made a mistake. It's the wrong thing to do. But you own it. And then you've got to fix it and do something with it. Now that's what we have to do. There's no inconsistency.
 Soldiers know over there that this isn't being done right yet. I'm going to get it right for those soldiers because it's important to Israel, it's important to America, it's important to the world. It's important to the fight on terror. But I have a plan to do it. He doesn't.

Mr. Lehrer -- Speaking of your plan, new question, Senator Kerry, two minutes. Can you give us specifics in terms of a scenario, timelines, etc., for ending major U.S. military involvement in Iraq?

Mr. Kerry -- The timeline that I've set out, and again, I want to correct the president because he's misled again this evening on what I've said. I didn't say I would bring troops out in six months. I said if we do the things that I've set out and we are successful we could begin to draw the troops down in six months.
 And I think a critical component of success in Iraq is being able to convince the Iraqis and the Arab world that the United States doesn't have long-term designs on it. As I understand it we're building some 14 military bases there now. And some people say they've got a rather permanent concept to them. 
 When you guard the oil ministry but you don't guard the nuclear facilities the message to a lot of people is maybe well, maybe they're interested in our oil. 
 Now the problem is that they didn't think these things through properly. And these are the things you have to think through. What I want to do is change the dynamics on the ground. And you have to do that by beginning to not back off of Fallujah and other places and send the wrong message to the terrorists. You have to close the borders. You've got to show you're serious in that regard. But you've also go to show that you're prepared to bring the rest of the world in and share the stakes. 
 I will make a flat statement. The United States of America has no long-term designs on staying in Iraq. And our goal in my administration would be to get all of the troops out of there with the minimal amount you need for training and logistics as we do in some other countries in the world after a war to be able to sustain the peace. 
 But that's how we're going to win the peace. By rapidly training the Iraqis themselves. Even the administration has admitted they haven't done the training. Because they came back to Congress a few weeks ago and asked for a complete reprogramming of the money. Now what greater admission is there, 16 months afterwards, oops, we haven't done the job. We've got to start to spend the money now. Will you guys give us permission to shift it over into training?

Mr. Lehrer -- Ninety seconds.

Mr. Bush -- There's 100,000 troops trained: police, guard, special units, border patrol. There's going to be 125,000 trained by the end of this year. Yeah, we're the job done. It's hard work. Everybody knows it's hard work because there's a determined enemy that's trying to defeat us.
 Now, my opponent says he's going to try to change the dynamics on the ground. Well, Prime Minister Allawi was here, he is the leader of that country. He's a brave, brave man. And when he came, after giving a speech to the Congress, my opponent questioned his credibility. You can't change the dynamics on the ground if you've criticized the brave leader of Iraq. One of his campaign people alleged that Prime Minister Allawi was like a puppet. That's no way to treat somebody who's courageous and brave, that is trying to lead his country forward.
 The way to make sure that we succeed is to send consistent sound messages to the Iraqi people that when we give our word, we will keep our word. That we stand with you. That we believe you want to be free. And I do. I believe that the 25 million people, the vast majority, long to have elections. I reject this notion. And I'm not suggesting that my opponent says it, but I reject the notion that some say that if you're Muslim, you can't be free, you don't deserve freedom. I disagree, strongly disagree with that.

Mr. Lehrer -- Thirty seconds.

Mr. Kerry -- I couldn't agree more that the Iraqis want to be free and that they could be free. But I think the president, again, still hasn't shown how he's going to go about it the right way. He has more of the same.
 Now, Prime Minister Allawi came here and he said the terrorists are pouring over the border. That's Allawi's assessment. The national intelligence assessment that was given to the president in July said: Best-case scenario, more of the same of what we see today; worst-case scenario, civil war.
 I can do better.

Mr. Bush -- Yeah, let me --

Mr. Lehrer -- Yes, 30 seconds.

Mr. Bush -- The reason why Prime Minister Allawi said they're coming across the border is because he recognizes that this is a central part of the war on terror. They're fighting us because they're fighting freedom. They understand that a free Afghanistan or a free Iraq will be a major defeat for them. And those are the stakes. And that's why it is essential we not leave. That's why it's essential we hold the line. That's why essential we win. And we will under my leadership. We're going to win this war in Iraq.

Mr. Lehrer -- Mr. President, new question, two minutes. Does the Iraq experience make it more likely or less likely that you would take the United States into another pre-emptive military action?

Mr. Bush -- I would hope I never have to. Understand how hard it is to commit troops. I never wanted to commit troops. I never -- when I was running -- when we had the debate in 2000, never dreamt I'd be doing that, but the enemy attacked us, Jim, and I have a solemn duty to protect the American people, to do everything I can to protect us.
 I think that by speaking clearly and doing what we say and not sending mixed messages, it is less likely we'll ever to use troops. But a president must always be willing to use troops, as a last resort. I was hopeful diplomacy would work in Iraq. It was falling apart. There was no doubt in my mind that Saddam Hussein was hoping that the world would turn a blind eye. And if he had been in power -- in other -- we just said, let's the inspectors work or let's -- you know, hope to talk him out, maybe the 18th resolution would work, he'd have been stronger and tougher and the world would have been a lot worse off. There's just no doubt in my mind. We would rue the day had we -- if Saddam Hussein been in power. 
 So we use diplomacy every chance we get, believe me. And I hope to never have to use force. But by speaking clearly and sending messages that we mean what we say, we've affected the world in a positive way. Look at Libya. Libya was a threat. Libya is now peacefully dismantling its weapons programs. Libya understood that America and others will enforce doctrine. And the world is better for it.
 So to answer your question, I would hope we never have to. I think by acting firmly and decisively it'll -- it's less likely use -- it's less likely we have to use force.

Mr. Lehrer -- Senator Kerry, 90 seconds.

Mr. Kerry -- Jim, the president just said, extraordinarily revealing and, frankly, very important in this debate. In answer to your question about Iraq and sending people into Iraq he just said, the enemy attacked us. Saddam Hussein didn't attack us. Osama bin Laden attacked us. Al Qaeda attacked us. And when we had Osama bin Laden cornered in the mountains of Tora Bora, 1,000 of his cohorts with him in those mountains, with American military forces nearby and in the field, we didn't use the best trained troops in the world to go kill the world's No. 1 criminal and terrorist. They outsourced the job to Afghan warlords who only, a week earlier, had been on the other side fighting against us, neither of whom trusted each other. That's the enemy that attacked us, that's the enemy that was allowed to walk out of those mountains. That's the enemy that is now in 60 countries with stronger recruits.
 He also said Saddam Hussein would have been stronger. That is just factually incorrect. Two-thirds of the country was a no-fly zone when we started this war. We would have had sanctions. We would have had the U.N. inspectors. Saddam Hussein would have been continually weakening. If the president had shown the patience to go through another round of resolution, to sit down with those leaders, say, What do you need? What do you need now? How much more will it take to get you to join us? We'd be in a stronger place today.

Mr. Bush -- First, listen --

Mr. Lehrer -- Thirty seconds.

Mr. Bush -- Of course I know Osama bin Laden attacked us. I know that. And secondly, to think that another round of resolutions would have caused Saddam Hussein to disarm, disclose, is ludicrous, in my judgment. It just shows a significant difference of opinion. We tried diplomacy, we did our best. He was hoping to turn a blind eye and, yes, he would have been stronger had we not dealt with him. He had the capability of making weapons and he would have made weapons.

Mr. Lehrer -- Thirty seconds, Senator.

Mr. Kerry -- Thirty-five to 40 countries in the world had a greater capability of making weapons at the moment the president invaded than Saddam Hussein. And while he's been diverted with 9 out of 10 active duty divisions of our army, either going to Iraq, coming back from Iraq or getting ready to go, North Korea has gotten nuclear weapons and the world is more dangerous. Iran is moving towards nuclear weapons. And the world is more dangerous. Darfur has a genocide. The world is more dangerous. I'd have made a better choice.

Mr. Lehrer -- New question, two minutes, Senator Kerry. What is your position on the whole concept of pre-emptive war?

Mr. Kerry -- The president always has the right and always has had the right for pre-emptive strike. That was a great doctrine throughout the cold war. And it was always one of the things we argued about with respect to arms control. No president through all of American history has ever ceded and nor would I the right to pre-empt in any way necessary to protect the United States of America.
 But if and when you do it, Jim, you've got to do it in a way that passes the test. That passes the global test where your countrymen, your people understand fully why you're doing what you're doing. And you can prove to the world that you did it for legitimate reasons. 
 Here we have our own secretary of state who's had to apologize to the world for the presentation he made to the United Nations. I mean we can remember when President Kennedy and the Cuban missile crisis sent his secretary of state to Paris to meet with de Gaulle. And in the middle of the discussion to tell them about the missiles in Cuba he said, here, let me show you the photos. And de Gaulle waved him off and said, no, no, no. The word of the president of the United States is good enough for me. How many leaders in the world today would respond to us as a result of what we've done in that way? 
 So what is at test here is the credibility of the United States of America and how we lead the world. And Iran and North Korea are now more dangerous. Now whether pre-emption is ultimately what has to happen or not I don't know yet. But I'll tell you this as president I'll never take my eye of that ball. 
 I've been fighting for proliferation--antiproliferation the entire time I've been in the Congress. And we've watched this president actually turn away from some of the treaties there were on the table. You don't help yourself with other nations when you turn away from the global warming treating, for instance. Or when you refuse to deal at length with the United Nations. You have to earn that respect. And I think we have a lot of earning back to do. 

Mr. Lehrer -- Ninety seconds.

Mr. Bush -- Let me--I'm not exactly sure what you mean: passes the global test. You take pre-emptive action if you pass a global test? My attitude is you take pre-emptive action in order to protect the American people. That you act in order to make this country secure.
 My opponent talks about me not signing certain treaties. Let me tell you one thing I didn't sign and I think it shows the difference of our opinion, the difference of opinions. And that is I wouldn't join the International Criminal Court. This is a body based in The Hague where unaccountable judges, prosecutors, could pull our troops, our diplomats up for trial. And I wouldn't join. And I understand that in certain capitals of, around the world that that wasn't a popular move. But it's the right move not to join a foreign court that could, where our people could be prosecuted. My opponent is for joining the International Criminal Court. 
 I just think trying to be popular kind of in the global sense, if it's not in our best interest, makes no sense. I'm interested in working with other nations and do a lot of it. But I'm not going to make decisions that I think are wrong for America.

Mr. Lehrer -- New question, Mr. President. Do you believe that diplomacy and sanctions can resolve the nuclear problems with North Korea and Iran, taking them in any order you would like?

Mr. Bush -- North Korea first, I do. Let me say I certainly hope so. Before I was sworn in the policy of this government was to have bilateral negotiations with North Korea. And we signed an agreement with North Korea that my administration found out that was not being honored by the North Koreans.
 And so I decided that a better way to approach the issue was to get other nations involved, just besides us. And in Crawford, Tex., Jiang Zemin and I agreed that the, a nuclear-weapons-free North Korea peninsula was in his interest and our interest and the world's interest. And so we began a new dialogue with North Korea, one that included not only the United States but now China. And China's got a lot of influence over North Korea. In some ways more than we do.
 As well we included South Korea, Japan and Russia. So now there are five voices speaking to Kim Jong Il, not just one. And so if Kim Jong Il decides again to not honor an agreement he's not only doing injustice to America, be doing injustice to China as well.
 And I think this will work. It's not going to work if we open up a dialogue with Kim Jong Il. That's what he wants. He wants to unravel the six-party talks or the five-nation coalition that's sending him a clear message.
 On Iran, I hope we can do the same thing: continue to work with the world to convince the Iranian mullahs to abandon their nuclear ambitions. We've worked very closely with the foreign ministers of France, Germany and Great Britain, who have been the folks delivering the message to the mullahs that if you expect to be part of the world of nations, get rid of your nuclear programs. The I.A.E.A. is involved. There's a special protocol recently been passed that allows for instant inspections. I hope we can do it. And we've got a good strategy.

Mr. Lehrer -- Senator Kerry, 90 seconds.

Mr. Kerry -- With respect to Iran, the British, French and Germans were the ones who initiated an effort, without the United States regrettably, to begin to try to move to curb the nuclear possibilities in Iran. I believe we could have done better. I think the United States should have offered the opportunity to provide the nuclear fuel, test them, see whether or not they were actually looking for it for peaceful purposes. If they weren't willing to work a deal then we could have put sanctions together. The president did nothing.
 With respect to North Korea, the real story: We had inspectors and television cameras in the nuclear reactor in North Korea. Secretary Bill Perry negotiated that under President Clinton. And we knew where the fuel rods were. And we knew the limits on their nuclear power. Colin Powell, our secretary of state, announced one day that we were going to continue the dialogue and work with the North Koreans. The president reversed him, publicly, while the president of South Korea was here. And the president of South Korea went back to South Korea bewildered and embarrassed because it went against his policy. And for two years, this administration didn't talk at all to North Korea. While they didn't talk at all, the fuel rods came out, the inspectors were kicked out, the television cameras were kicked out and today there are four to seven nuclear weapons in the hands of North Korea. 
 That happened on this president's watch. Now that, I think, is one of the most serious sort of reversals or mixed messages that you could possibly send. 

Mr. Lehrer -- I want to make sure--

Mr. Bush -- I--

Mr. Lehrer -- Yes sir, we--but in this one minute, I want to make sure that we understand -- that the people watching here understand the differences between the two of you on this. You want to continue the multinational talks. Correct?

Mr. Bush -- Right.

Mr. Lehrer -- And you want -- you're willing to do it.

Mr. Kerry -- Both. I want bilateral talks which put all of the issues from the armistice of 1952, the economic issues, the human rights issues, the artillery disposal issues, the D.M.Z. issues and the nuclear issues on the table.

Mr. Lehrer -- And you're opposed to that, sir. Right?

Mr. Bush -- The minute we have bilateral talks, the six-party talks will unwind. It's exactly what Kim Jong Il wants. And by the way, the breach on the agreement was not through plutonium. The breach on the agreement is highly enriched uranium. That's what we caught him doing. That's where he was breaking the agreement.
 Secondly he said -- my opponent said he'd work to put sanctions on Iran. We've already sanctioned Iran. We can't sanction them anymore. There are sanctions in place on Iran. 
 And finally, we were a party to the convincing -- to working with Germany, France and Great Britain to send their foreign ministers into Iran. 

Mr. Lehrer -- New question, two minutes. Senator Kerry, you mention Darfur, the Darfur region of Sudan, 50,000 people have already died in that area, more than a million are homeless. It has been labeled an act of ongoing genocide, yet neither one of you or anyone else connected with your campaigns or your administration that I can find has discussed the possibility of sending in troops. Why not?

Mr. Kerry -- Well, I'll tell you exactly why not, but I first want to say something about those sanctions on Iran. Only the United States put the sanctions on alone. And that's exactly what I'm talking about. In order for the sanctions to be effective, we should have been working with the British, French and Germans and other countries. And that's the difference between the president and me. And there, again, he sort of slid by the question.
 Now, with respect with Darfur, yes, it is a genocide. And months ago, many of us were pressing for action. I think the reason that we're not saying send American troops in at this point is several fold. No. 1, we can do this through the African Union, providing we give them the logistical support. Right now all the president is providing is humanitarian support. We need to do more than that. They've got to have the logistical capacity to go in and stop the killing. And that's going to require more than is on the table today.
 I also believe that it is -- one of the reasons we can't do it is we're overextended. Ask the people in the armed forces today. We've got guards in reserves who are doing double duties. We've got a backdoor draft taking place in America today. People with stop-loss programs where they're told you can't get out of the military. Nine out of our 10 active duty divisions committed to Iraq one way or the other, either going, coming or preparing. So this is the way the president has overextended the United States.
 That's why, in my plan, I add two active-duty divisions to the United States Army, not for Iraq but for our general demands across the globe. I also intend to double the number of special forces so that we can do the job we need to do with respect to fighting the terrorists around the world. And if we do that, then we have the ability to be able to respond more rapidly. 
 But I'll tell you this, as president, if it took American forces to some degree to coalesce the African Union, I'd be prepared to do it because we could never allow another Rwanda. It's a moral responsibility for us in the world.

Mr. Lehrer -- Ninety seconds.

Mr. Bush -- Back to Iran just for a second. It was not my administration that put the sanctions on Iran. That happened long before I arrived in Washington, D.C.
 In terms of Darfur, I agree it's genocide. And Colin Powell so stated. We've committed $200 million worth of aid. We're the leading donor in the world to help the suffering people there. We will commit more over time to help. We were very much involved at the U.N. on the sanction policy of the Bashir government in the Sudan. Prior to Darfur Ambassador Jack Danforth had been negotiating a north south agreement that we would hope would have brought peace to the Sudan.
 I agree with my opponent that we shouldn't be committing troops. That we ought to be working with the African Union to do so. Precisely what we did in Liberia. We helped stabilize the situation with some troops. And when the African Union came we moved them out. 
 My hope is that the African Union moves rapidly to help save lives. Fortunately, the rainy season will be ending shortly which will make it easier to get aid there and help the long-suffering people there. 

Mr. Lehrer -- New question, President Bush. There are clearly, as we have heard, major policy differences between the two of you. Are there also underlying character issues that you believe, that you believe are serious enough to deny Senator Kerry the job as commander in chief of the United States?

Mr. Bush -- Whew. That's a loaded question. First of all, I admire Senator Kerry's service to our country. I admire the fact that he is a great dad. I appreciate the fact that his daughters have been so kind to my daughters in what has been a pretty hard experience for I guess young girls seeing their dads out there campaigning.
 I admire the fact that he's served for 20 years in the Senate. Although I'm not so sure I admire the record. 
 I won't hold it against him that he went to Yale. Nothing wrong with that. 
 My concerns about the senator is that in the course of this campaign I've been listening very carefully to what he says. And he changes positions on the war in Iraq. Changed positions on something as fundamental as what you believe in your core, in your heart of hearts is right for, in Iraq. 
 You cannot lead if you send mixed messages. Mixed messages send the wrong signals to our troops. Mixed messages send the wrong signal to our allies. Mixed messages send the wrong messages to the Iraqi citizens. And that's my biggest concern about my opponent. 
 I admire his service. But I'm, I just know how this world works. And that in the counsels of government there must be certainty from the U.S. president. Of course, we change tactics when need to but we never change our beliefs, the strategic beliefs that are necessary to protect this country and the world.

Mr. Lehrer -- Ninety-second response, Senator.

Mr. Kerry -- Well, first of all, I appreciate enormously the personal comments the president just made, and I share them with him. I think only if you've -- if you're doing this, and he's done it more than I have in terms of the presidency, can you begin to get a sense of what it means to your families. And it's tough. And so I acknowledge -- his daughters, I've watched them, I've chuckled a few times at some of their comments. And--

Mr. Bush -- Trying to put a leash on them.

Mr. Kerry -- Well, I know-- I've learned not to do that. And I have great respect and admiration for his wife. I think she's a terrific person--

Mr. Bush -- Thank you.

Mr. Kerry -- --and a great first lady. But we do have differences. I'm not going to talk about a difference of character. I don't think that's my job or my business. But let me talk about something that the president just sort of finished up with. Maybe someone would call it a character trait, maybe somebody wouldn't. But this issue of certainty: It's one thing to be certain, but you can be certain and be wrong. It's another to be certain and be right or be certain and be moving in the right direction or be certain about a principle and then learn new facts and take those new facts and put them to use in order to change and get your policy right.
 What I worry about with the president is that he's not acknowledging what's on the ground. He's not acknowledging the realities of North Korea, he's not acknowledging the truth of the science of stem cell research or of global warming and other issues. And certainty sometimes can get you in trouble.

Mr. Lehrer -- Thirty seconds.

Mr. Bush -- Well, I think -- listen I fully agree that, uh, that one should shift tactics and we will. In Iraq our commanders have got all the flexibility to do what is necessary to succeed. But what I won't do is change my core values because of politics or because of pressure. And it is, ah, it's one of the things I've learned in the White House is that there's enormous pressure on the president and you cannot wilt under that pressure otherwise the world won't be better off.

Mr. Lehrer -- Thirty seconds.

Mr. Kerry -- I have no intention of wilting. I've never wilted in my life. And I've never wavered in my life. I know exactly what we need to do in Iraq and my position has been consistent. Saddam Hussein is a threat. He needed to be disarmed. We needed to go to the U.N. The president needed the authority to use force in order to be able to get him to do something because he never did it without the threat of force. But we didn't need to rush to war without a plan to win the peace.

Mr. Lehrer -- New question. Two minutes, Senator Kerry. If you are elected president, what will you take to that office thinking is the single-most serious threat to the national security of the United States?

Mr. Kerry -- Nuclear proliferation. Nuclear proliferation. There are some 600-plus tons of unsecured materials still in the former Soviet Union, in Russia. At the rate that the president is currently securing that it'll take 13 years to get it.
 I did a lot of work on this. I wrote a book about it several years ago, maybe six or seven years ago, called ''The New War,'' which saw the difficulties of this international criminal network. 
 And back then we intercepted a suitcase in a Middle Eastern country with nuclear materials in it. And the black market sale price was about $250 million.
 Now there are terrorists trying to get their hands on that stuff today. And this president, I regret to say, has secured less nuclear material in the last two years, since 9/11, than we did in the two years preceding 9/11.
 We have to do this job. And to do the job you can't cut the money for it. The president actually cut the money for it. You have to put the money into it and the funding and the leadership. 
 And part of that leadership is sending the right message to places like North Korea. Right now the president is spending hundreds of millions of dollars to research bunker-busting nuclear weapons. The United States is pursuing a new set of nuclear weapons. It doesn't make sense. 
 You talk about mixed messages: We're telling other people you can't have nuclear weapons but we're pursuing a new nuclear weapons that we might even contemplate using.
 Not this president. I'm going to shut that program down. And we're going to make it clear to the world we're serious about containing nuclear proliferation. And we're going to get the job of containing all of that nuclear material in Russia done in four years. And we're going to build the strongest international network to prevent nuclear proliferation.
 This is the scale of what President Kennedy set out to do with the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. It's our generation's equivalent and I intend to get it done.

Mr. Lehrer -- Ninety seconds, Mr. President.

Mr. Bush -- Actually, we've increased funding for, for dealing with nuclear proliferation. About 35 percent since I've been the president.
 Secondly, we've set up what's called the -- well, first of all, I agree with my opponent that the biggest threat facing this country is weapons of mass destruction in the hands of a terrorist network. And that's why we've put proliferation as one of the centerpieces of a multiprong strategy to make the country safer. 
 My administration started what's called the proliferation security initiative. Over 60 nations involved with disrupting the transshipment of information and or weapons of mass destruction materials. And we're, been effective. 
 We busted the A.Q. Khan network. This was a proliferator out of Pakistan that was selling secrets to places like North Korea and Libya. We convinced Libya to disarm, it's a essential part of dealing with weapons of mass destruction and proliferation. 
 I tell you another way to help protect America in the long run is to continue with missile defenses. And we've got a robust research and development program that has been ongoing during my administration. We'll be implementing a missile defense system relatively quickly. and that is another way to help deal with the threats that we face in the 21st century. My opponent is opposed to the missile defenses.

Mr. Lehrer -- Just for this one-minute discussion here, is it -- just for whatever seconds it takes: so it's correct to say that if somebody's listening to this, that both of you agree -- if you're re-elected, Mr. President, and if you are elected, the single most serious threat you believe -- both of you believe is nuclear proliferation.

Mr. Bush -- I do -- in the hands of a terrorist enemy.

Mr. Kerry -- Weapons of mass destruction, nuclear proliferation. But again, the test of the difference between us: the president's had four years to try to do something about it. And North Korea's got more weapons. Iran is moving toward weapons. And at his pace it'll take 13 years to secure those weapons in Russia.
 I'm going to do it in four years and I'm going to immediately set out to have bilateral talks with North Korea. 

Mr. Lehrer -- Your response to that.

Mr. Bush -- Yeah, I, again, I can't tell you how big a mistake I think that is to have bilateral talks with North Korea. It's precisely what Kim Jong Il wants. It'll cause the six-party talks to evaporate. It means that China no longer is involved in convincing, along with us, for Kim Jong Il to get rid of his weapons. It's a big mistake to do that. We must have China's leverage on Kim Jong Il, besides ourselves. And if you enter bilateral talks, they'll be happy to walk away from the table. I don't think that'll work.

Mr. Lehrer -- All right, Mr. President, this is the last question.

Mr. Lehrer -- All right. Mr. President, this is the last question and two minutes. It's a new subject, new question and it has to do with President Putin and Russia. Did you misjudge him or are you -- do you feel that what he is doing in the name of anti-terrorism by changing some democratic processes is O.K.?

Mr. Bush -- No, I don't think it's O.K. and said so publicly. I think that there needs to be checks and balances in a democracy. And made that very clear, that by consolidating power in a central government, he's sending a signal to the Western world and United States that perhaps he doesn't believe in checks and balances. And I've told him that.
 He's also a strong ally in the war on terror. He is, listen, they went through a horrible situation in Beslan where these terrorist gunned down young school kids. But it's nature of the enemy. By the way, that's why we need to be firm in resolve in bringing them to justice. It's precisely what Vladimir Putin understands as well.
 I've got a good relation with Vladimir. And it's important that we do have a good relation because that enables me to better comment to him and to better to discuss with him some of the decisions he makes. I found that in this world, that it's important to establish good personal relationships with people so that when you have disagreements, you're able to disagree in a way that is effective. And so I've told him my opinion. I look forward to discussing it more with him as time goes on.
 Russia's a country in transition. Vladimir's -- is going to have to make some hard choices, and I think it's very important for the American president, as well as other Western leaders, to remind him of the great benefits of democracy, that democracy will best, uh, help the people realize their hopes and aspirations and dreams. And I will continue working with him over the next four years.

Mr. Lehrer -- Ninety seconds, Senator Kerry.

Mr. Kerry -- Well, let me just say quickly that I had an extraordinary experience of watching, up close and personal, that transition in Russia because I was there right after the transformation and I was probably one of the first senators, along with Senator Bob Smith of New Hampshire, former senator, to go down into the K.G.B. underneath Treblinka Square and see reams of files with names in them. And it sort of brought home the transition to democracy that Russia was trying to make.
 I regret what's happened in these past months. And I think it goes beyond just the response to terror. 
 Mr. Putin now controls all the television stations. His political opposition is being put in jail. 
 And I think it's very important for the United States, obviously, to have a working relationship that is good. This is a very important country to us, and we want a partnership. 
 But we always have to stand up for democracy. As George Will said the other day, freedom on the march, not in Russia right now. 
 Now, I'd like to come back for a quick moment if I can to that issue about China and the talks because that's one of the most critical issues here -- North Korea. Just because the president says it can't be done, that you'd lose China, doesn't mean it can't be done. 
 I mean this is the president who said there were weapons of mass destruction, said mission accomplished, said we could fight the war on the cheap; none of which were true. 
 We can have bilateral talks with Kim Jong Il and we can get those weapons at the same time as we get China because China has an interest in the outcome too.

Mr. Lehrer -- Thirty seconds, Mr. President.

Mr. Bush -- You know my opinion on North Korea. I can't say it any more plainly.

Mr. Lehrer -- Right, well, what -- he used the word truth again.

Mr. Bush -- Pardon me?

Mr. Lehrer -- Talking about the truth of the matter. Used the word truth again. Did that raise any hackles with you?

Mr. Bush -- I'm a pretty calm guy. I mean, I don't take it personally. But, you know, look, we looked at the same intelligence. And came to the same conclusion. That Saddam Hussein was a grave threat. And I don't hold it against him that he said grave threat. I don't, I'm not going to go around the country saying he didn't tell the truth when he looked at the same intelligence I did.

Mr. Kerry -- It was a threat. That's not the issue. The issue is what you do about it. The president said he was going to be build a true coalition, exhaust the remedies of the U.N. and go to war as a last resort. Those words really have to mean something. And unfortunately, he didn't go to war as a last resort. Now we have this incredible mess in Iraq, two hundred billion dollars. It's, it's not what the American people thought they were getting when they voted.

Mr. Lehrer -- All right. That brings us to closing statements. And as, and again as determined by a coin toss, Senator Kerry, you go first and you have two minutes.

Mr. Kerry -- Thank you, Jim, very much. Thank you very much to the university again. Thank you, Mr. President.
 My fellow Americans, as I said at the very beginning of this debate, both President Bush and I love this country very much. There's no doubt, I think, about that. But we have a different set of convictions about how we make our country stronger here at home and respected again in the world.
 I know that for many of you sitting at home, parents of kids in Iraq, you want to know who's the person who could be a commander in chief who can get your kids home and get the job done and win the peace -- and for all the rest of the parents in America who are wondering about their kids going to a school or anywhere else in the world what kind of world they're going to grow up in -- let me look you in the eye and say to you: I defended this country as a young man in war and I will defend it as president of the United States.
 But I have a difference with this president. I believe we're strongest when we reach out and lead the world and build strong alliances. I have a plan for Iraq. I believe we can be successful. I'm not talking about leaving. I'm talking about winning. And we need a fresh start, a new credibility, a president who can bring allies to our side.
 I also have a plan to win the war on terror -- funding homeland security, strengthening our military, cutting off finances, reaching out to the world, again, building strong alliances.
 I believe America's best days are ahead of us because I believe that the future belongs to freedom, not to fear. That's the country that I'm going to fight for. And I ask you to give me the opportunity to make you proud. I ask you to give me the opportunity to lead this great nation so that we can be stronger here at home, respected again in the world and have responsible leadership that we deserve. Thank you and God bless America.

Mr. Lehrer -- Mr. President, two minutes.

Mr. Bush -- Thank you very much tonight, Jim. Thank you, senator. If America shows uncertainly or weakness in this decade, the world will drift toward tragedy. That's not going to happen so long as I'm your president. In the next four years, we will continue to strengthen our homeland defenses, we will strengthen our intelligence gathering services, we will reform our military -- military will be an all-volunteer army. We will continue to stay on the offense. We will fight the terrorists around the world so we do not have to face them here at home. We'll continue to build our alliances. I'll never turn over America's national security needs to leaders of other countries as we continue to build those alliances.
 And we'll continue to spread freedom. I believe in the transformational power of liberty. I believe that a free Iraq is in this nation's interests. I believe a free Afghanistan is in this nation's interests, and I believe both a free Afghanistan and a free Iraq will serve as a powerful example for millions who plead in silence for liberty in the broader Middle East.
 We've done a lot of hard work together over the last three and a half years. We've been challenged and we've risen to those challenges. We've climbed the mighty mountain. I see the valley below, and it's a valley of peace. By being steadfast and resolute and strong, by keeping our word, by supporting our troops, we can achieve the peace we all want.
 I appreciate your listening tonight. I ask for your vote. And may God continue to bless our great land.

Mr. Lehrer -- And that ends tonight's debate. A reminder, the second presidential debate will be week from tomorrow, Oct. 8, from Washington University in St. Louis. Charles Gibson of ABC will moderate a town hall type event. Then on Oct. 13 from Arizona State University in Tempe, Bob Schieffer of CBS News will moderate. And an exchange on domestic policy that will be similar in format to tonight. Also, this coming Tuesday at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, the vice presidential candidates, Vice President Cheney and Senator Edwards, will debate with my PBS colleague Gwen Ifill moderating. For now, thank you, Senator Kerry, President Bush. From Coral Gables, Fla., I'm Jim Lehrer. Thank you and good night.


GRAPHIC: Photo: THE WIVES -- Laura Bush, left, and Teresa Heinz Kerry before the debate started last night at the University of Miami Convocation Center in Coral Gables, Fla. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); TRANSCRIPTS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL DEBATES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (88%); VETO (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating; Election Issues; Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Presidential Election of 2004; Atomic Weapons

COMPANY: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (91%)

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (90%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%) Iraq; North Korea; China

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



26 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Denies Cuban Scholars Entry to Attend a Meeting

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
The Bush administration has denied entry to all 61 Cuban scholars scheduled to participate in the Latin American Studies Association's international congress in Las Vegas next week, deeming them ''detrimental to the interests of the United States.'' 
 The last-minute move, which comes on the heels of new restrictions on travel by Americans to Cuba, is provoking anger and dismay among leading American academics, who called it an unprecedented effort to sever scholarly exchanges that have been conducted since 1979. 
 Darla Jordan, a spokeswoman for the State Department, said that the decision reflected the stricter policies toward Cuba announced last year by President Bush as a strategy to hasten the end of Fidel Castro's government. Citing 68 members of the opposition in Cuba who remain in prison there after being arrested in 2003, she said, ''We will not have business as usual with the regime that so outrageously violates the human rights of the peaceful opposition.'' 
 But organizers of the conference, to be held next Thursday through Saturday, said they learned of the denial only on Tuesday, after months of assurances by State Department officials that the visas were on track. Those rejected include poets, sociologists, art historians and economists, among them a professor who was a visiting scholar at Harvard last fall and others who have frequently lectured at leading American universities.
 ''This is attacking one of the fundamental principles of academic life in the United States, which is freedom of inquiry, '' said Marysa Navarro, a historian at Dartmouth who is president of the association, the world's largest academic organization for individuals and institutions that study Latin America. ''I asked when was the decision made, and I was told that it was very recent and it was very high up, so it was either the secretary of state or the White House.''
 ''It's an election year,'' she added, ''and I think we're being held hostage to satisfy that sector of the U.S. electorate which is against any kind of relations with Cuba.''
 The Bush administration has undertaken tough measures against Cuba in the pre-election season that administration officials say are intended to help establish Cuba as a democratic free-market state. But critics say the measures are chiefly devised to strengthen the incumbent's backing among Cuban-Americans in Florida, a swing state. 
 ''Restricting access of Cuban academics to the United States is consistent with the overall tightening of our policy,'' Ms. Jordan said, noting that Cuban academic institutions are state run. ''Our policy is not about restricting academic exchanges or freedom of expression. It is the Castro regime that does that through its restrictive issuance of passports and exit permits only to those academics on whom it can rely to promote its agenda of repression and misrepresentation about Cuba and the United States.''
 But this characterization of the invited Cuban academics was angrily rejected by John Coatsworth, director of the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies at Harvard. ''I can tell you with a certainty that that's a lie,'' Professor Coatsworth said, noting that among the scholars denied visas are five contributing authors to a book on the Cuban economy in the early 20th century, which the center is publishing next month. 
 He said that one, Omar Everleny Perez Villanueva, who was a visiting scholar at Harvard last fall, even wrote his dissertation on the benefits of direct foreign investment in Cuba.
 ''They are honest, they're courageous, they do superb work,'' Professor Coatsworth said. ''These are the kind of people who let the Soviet Union become Russia. This policy of restricting people-to-people contacts only benefits those who would benefit from violent change instead of a peaceful transition.''
 Professor Navarro said that the United States had not imposed blanket restrictions on scholars from other countries where political dissidents are jailed. Among the presenters at the conference are four scholars from China who apparently had no difficulty with visas, she said. 
 Though 75 percent of the association's 5,000 members live in the United States, its international congress, held every 18 months, draws participants from all over the world. Forty-five sessions out of 600 will have to be canceled, organizers said, including panels on contemporary Cuban poetry, gender in Cuban literature, and Cuban agriculture.
 The message it confirms to the rest of the world, said Kristin Ruggiero, a historian who directs the Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies at the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, ''is that the borders are closing.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (86%); HISTORY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); ART HISTORY (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); ARRESTS (54%) United States International Relations; Travel Restrictions; Cuban-Americans; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: Latin American Studies Assn

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%) Nina Bernstein; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (97%); LATIN AMERICA (73%) Cuba; Cuba

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004



27 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: It's a Trend: Births Out of Wedlock Are Falling Statewide

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
For the first time in a generation, New York State has had sustained declines in out-of-wedlock births, state officials said yesterday. Indeed, from 1999 to 2002, New York experienced the greatest numerical reduction in births to unwed mothers of any state in the country.
 In New York, births to unwed mothers of all ages dropped from 95,033 in 2000 to 90,746 in 2001 and to 89,840 in 2002, the most recent years for which data was available. They were the first two years of consecutive declines in the state since 1974, officials said. Even measured as a percentage of population, the pace of the drop, 2.4 percent, was second only to that of the District of Columbia, federal officials said. 
 While there is considerable debate among sociologists and policy makers about the causes of the decline, almost everyone agrees that the remarkable reversal in a state long beset by the problem is indisputably a good thing for the welfare of children.
 ''There is extensive research indicating that children born and raised by married parents have numerous advantages, including fewer behavior problems, greater education success and face fewer safety risks like physical abuse,'' said Kristine Moore, senior scholar at Child Trends, a nonpartisan research group in Washington. ''It means more children will have better prospects in life.''
 While New York's drop was not exactly a surprise -- the growth in out-of-wedlock births had slowed in the 1990's and births to teenage mothers had been dropping nationally since 1991 -- the state's decrease came as births to unwed mothers had actually begun to climb again nationally. New York did experience a one-year statistical drop in such births between 1996 and 1997, although that was attributed by state officials to a change in the way births were recorded in New York City.
 State officials said they were confident that the most important factor in the reversal was the sweeping welfare reform legislation passed in 1996, which placed a five-year lifetime limit on cash assistance to poor mothers. As poor mothers, who often received additional benefits for each additional child, began to realize they would eventually have to support their families without government support, they began adjusting their behavior, state officials assert.
 ''Whatever nonproductive incentives there were to have children out of wedlock have been ended,'' said Robert Doar, commissioner of the state's Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance. ''Now people are making more rational choices.''
 Mr. Doar also said research showed that New York's aggressive child-support enforcement policy had had a particularly potent effect on the willingness of men to father children outside of marriage.
 Academics and social researchers, however, said they doubted any straight line could be drawn between the decline and any single government policy, at least until much more information had been gathered. Sanders Korenman, an economist at the School of Public Affairs at Baruch College who has written extensively about how fertility and marriage have been affected by welfare reform, said the reasons for the decline were impossible to decipher without knowing more about the underlying demographics of the city.
 For example, he said, if everything else stayed the same and married couples had greater numbers of children, that might be enough to explain the change. An increase in immigrant populations who valued birth in marriage or a decrease in the number of women in child-bearing years in certain ethnic groups could also have a profound effect, he said.
 In Washington, he said, his research showed that the decline in out-of-wedlock births was primarily caused by an exodus from the city of African-American women in their 20's.
 Dr. Allan Rosenfield, dean of the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University and an obstetrician, said that in his own experience the most powerful force responsible for declining out-of-wedlock births in the city was a ''significant increase in contraceptive use among teenagers, particularly the increased availability of emergency contraception.''
 In part, he said, the rise was attributable to increased awareness of how to avoid AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases, and in part by improvements in contraception. Young women who have unprotected sex in the middle of their menstrual cycles can fairly easily get injections that prevent pregnancy from resulting, something not common even five years ago.
 Whatever the cause, however, the decrease in births out of wedlock was significant enough to win New York a $25 million grant from the Department of Health and Human Services in Washington. As part of the 1996 welfare reform legislation, the federal agency began giving states that achieved the largest decline in out-of-wedlock births, without a corresponding increase in abortion rates, cash awards. 
 Although this is the sixth year the federal awards have been given, it is the first time New York State has been on the list of recipients. To receive the grant, New York had to show not only that had out-of-wedlock births had declined, but also that abortions had not increased. In fact, the number of abortions in New York, while still very high, declined steadily to 123,048 in 2002, the most recent year for which data is available, from 134,405 in 1995.
 New Hampshire, the District of Columbia and Maryland also received $25 million grants for their decreases.
 The Bush administration, however, wants to abolish the grant program.
 Dr. Wade F. Horn, the federal agency's assistant secretary for children and families, said, ''We don't really have a clear answer as to why one state goes up and another goes down.''
 As a result of this vagueness, he said, the administration was proposing elimination of the reward for reducing out-of-wedlock births and using the money instead to finance new programs designed to support healthy two-parent marriages. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); SINGLE PARENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TRENDS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (89%); SOCIOLOGY (88%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (77%); PARENTS (77%); STATISTICS (75%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); MARRIAGE (72%); FAMILY (72%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (72%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (71%); LEGISLATION (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (67%); CHILD WELFARE (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004



28 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: China Promises Currency Shift but Gives No Date

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
In the face of growing international pressure, Chinese officials told top United States officials on Friday that they would continue to push ahead with plans to float or revalue their currency, but avoided giving a date to begin the transformation.
 This commitment fell short of the immediate action recommended this week by the International Monetary Fund and of the demands being made by Democrats and Republicans alike. Some academic experts see reasons for China not to revalue.
 After a day of meetings, the Group of 7 industrial nations failed to agree on a program to give full debt relief to impoverished nations despite growing support for a British proposal to use gold reserves at the International Monetary Fund to underwrite the program. 
 Pressure has been building for the Chinese to announce a change at the meetings here of the I.M.F. or at meetings with representatives of the G-7 who met with China for the first time at a dinner on Friday. Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said afterward that he told the Chinese that ''we want the pace to accelerate.''
 ''We're not satisfied, you know,'' Mr. Snow said, ''but I think we do have to acknowledge progress is being made.''
 Like the United States, the other members of the Group of 7 -- Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan -- have all said that continued, stable global economic growth requires China to relax its currency exchange rate immediately.
 The dinner invitation has been seen as the first step for China's eventual inclusion in the group. And a senior Treasury official said after the dinner that the G-7 would have more engagements with China.
 In return, the industrialized world is hoping the Chinese will begin to adopt a more flexible currency exchange rate and start to right what is seen as an imbalance in global currency rates that has hurt Europe as well as the United States.
 Admission to the Group of 7 would be the final confirmation that China's economic growth has lifted the country to the center of the global elite. The only Asian country in the group is Japan.
 But in what is becoming a familiar ritual, China's first response on Friday was a joint communique promising greater efforts, but no timetable.
 ''The Chinese side reaffirmed China's commitment to further advance reform and to push ahead firmly and steadily to a market-based flexible exchange rate,'' the two nations said in the communique. The statement was issued after the Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, and the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, met with Jin Renqing, the Chinese finance minister, and Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of the central bank of China.
 James Mann, a China expert and visiting scholar at the Johns Hopkins University School for Advanced International Studies, said the Chinese had used this strategy for decades to avoid improving their policies on human rights in Tibet, missile nonproliferation and protecting intellectual property rights.
 ''They have a long track record of diverting attention away from doing something now or immediately by arriving at the beginning of a meeting and announcing what they plan to do way off in the future,'' Mr. Mann said. ''Sometimes, in the end, they may actually do it.''
 Changing China's currency has become a focal point for those worried about the record United States trade deficit and the loss of manufacturing jobs overseas. This week senior Democratic lawmakers led by Representative Sander M. Levin of Michigan filed a petition in advance of this weekend's meetings asking the administration to sue China at the World Trade Organization. The suit would contend that China's current inflexible exchange rate, 8.28 yuan to the dollar, amounts to unfair trading practices.
 By pegging its currency to the dollar, China has kept the prices of its exports low and flooded the American market with cheap goods while keeping the price of imports high, choking competition, the lawmakers charged
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, wrote a letter with Mr. Levin to the administration on Friday to complain that it had ''once again failed to address in a meaningful way this issue that is so vital to American businesses, workers and farmers.''
 At the opening of the I.M.F. meeting here on Thursday, Rodrigo Rato, the new managing director, argued that it would be in China's best interest to float its currency immediately. Reform is always easier when times are good, and China is enjoying extraordinary growth, he said. Moreover, a currency revaluation could help damp the possibility for inflation and cool the economy if it goes into overdrive again.
 But some academics cite reasons that may make China reluctant to revalue. Prosperity has created a huge division between the rich and poor in China and created a political problem for the Chinese Communists who have promised that economic growth will benefit the country as a whole.
 ''China has to worry about the impact a revaluation of the yuan will have on the poor, mobile population that work in the factories that depend on exports,'' said Nayan Chanda, Asian scholar and director of publications at Center for the Study of Globalization at Yale. 
 Several relief agencies issued statements of disappointment after the G - 7 failed to agree on debt relief.
 ''It is a real shame that the richest nations were divided over how to cover the minimal cost of impoverished country debt to wealthy creditors like the I.M.F. and the World Bank, '' said Marie Clarke, of Jubilee USA network. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (60%) Currency; United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends; Credit; Gold

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%) Group of Seven; International Monetary Fund 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%) Elizabeth Becker; John W (Sec) Snow

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (74%); FRANCE (74%) China; Great Britain; China

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004



29 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Production and Construction Gain

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Manufacturing activity remained strong in September and construction spending surged to a record in August, according to a pair of reports issued yesterday.
 The Institute for Supply Management said its manufacturing index registered 58.5 in September, down from 59 in August but slightly higher than the 58.3 reading forecast by analysts. 
 A reading of 50 or above means the manufacturing sector is expanding, while a figure below 50 represents a contraction. The index has been above 50 since June 2003. 
 The Commerce Department reported yesterday that construction spending jumped in August to the highest level ever. The 0.8 percent increase, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $1.02 trillion, reflects continued strength in the housing market. 
 The increase was double what economists had forecast, and July's figure was revised to reflect an even stronger month than previously estimated. 
 ''This was an extremely strong and encouraging report,'' said Kenneth Simonson, chief economist at Associated General Contractors of America. 
 The upbeat manufacturing and construction reports contrasted somewhat with the University of Michigan's index of consumer confidence for September, also released yesterday. That reading declined to 94.2 last month from 95.9 in August, lower than had been expected by economists. 
 Automakers were also reporting car and truck sales for September. Ford Motor said its sales fell nearly 7 percent as car sales dragged down overall results. Nissan North American, however, said total United States sales of Nissan and Infiniti vehicles grew 11 percent in September. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); AUTOMAKERS (71%) United States Economy; Production; Building (Construction); Records and Achievements

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF AMERICA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%) Institute for Supply Management; Commerce Department

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004



30 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Ford Lays Out A Move to Cut Auto Emissions

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
Top executives at the Ford Motor Company have privately endorsed an aggressive goal of reining in emissions from the automaker's vehicles by 2030, joining companies like BP and Toyota in approaching the issue as a business opportunity rather than a regulatory chore. 
 Ford's goal, according to its own internal projections, would require an improvement of about 80 percent in the fuel economy of its cars and trucks by 2030, according to people who have been informed of the plan. 
 The goal was laid out by the company's chairman, William Clay Ford Jr., and other executives at a meeting on Aug. 3 at their headquarters in Dearborn, Mich. 
 Companies including Ford have used computer models to assess how their current emissions contribute to concentrations of carbon and other gases linked by scientific organizations to a global warming trend. Some companies have also modeled how they would have to reduce their own emissions to proportionally scale back the environmental impact. 
 Ford's plan envisions carbon concentrations in the atmosphere that are significantly above current levels but well below what they would be by 2030 if left unchecked. The company is studying long-range product-development strategies to reach its goal and has not yet established shorter-range targets. Among those strategies could be more reliance on hybrid technology or other advances, like cleaner diesel engines and hydrogen fuel cells.
 The company's senior executive team attended the August meeting, among them Mr. Ford; James Padilla, the chief operating officer; Allan Gilmour, the vice chairman; James Vella, Mr. Ford's chief of staff; and Philip Martens, executive vice president for product creation. 
 The company had not planned to publicize the strategy because it is a long-term objective subject to change and because Ford has recently been the focus of stinging attacks from environmental groups for falling short of previously stated objectives. Most recently, the company said it was abandoning a commitment made in 2000 to improve the fuel economy of its sport utility vehicles by 25 percent over five years.
 ''This is a stunning change of direction for Ford, whose emissions are greater than all of Mexico,'' said Daniel Becker, the top global warming strategist at the Sierra Club, which has long been pressuring the company to improve its automotive emissions and fuel economy. ''This really is a better idea. We will continue to work with them to ensure that they implement this commitment.'' 
 Asked about the meeting, Carolyn Brown, a Ford spokeswoman, said: ''It's a group of senior high-level Ford executives that meet to discuss a sensible approach to the issues of climate change, energy security and fuel economy. The work of the group is intended to help Ford drive its product-development strategies for the future.''
 ''Beyond that I don't want to get into any specifics of internal meetings,'' she added. 
 The August meeting came soon before California adopted a regulation that will force automakers to reduce global warming emissions in the state by 30 percent by the 2016 model year. Ford and other automakers, including Toyota and Honda, have argued that the California regulation moves too far too fast, and the industry is expected to sue to block the measure. 
 Ford's internal strategy, by contrast, would call for a reduction in emissions of about 45 percent, equivalent to a roughly 80 percent improvement in fuel economy, according to its projections. 
 Government has long regulated smog-forming particles released from tailpipes, but the California regulation is the first in the United States to tackle global warming emissions. 
 Fred Webber, the industry's top lobbyist, cast doubt on a presentation on global warming by the staff of the state's air resources board at a hearing last month. The board cited a variety of hazards from climate changes, including rising sea levels that would threaten coastlines and fresh water supplies, an increase in asthma problems and poor crop irrigation because of the premature melting of mountain snow. 
 Mr. Webber called the topic ''a big if.'' 
 Mr. Ford has been outspoken in Detroit on environmental issues and has long said that global warming is a matter of concern. His company even published a newspaper advertisement in 2001 that read: ''Global warming. There. We said it.''
 In a May interview, citing ''The Day After Tomorrow,'' a doomsday movie about climate change, Mr. Ford said, ''If you look at where society is headed, whether it's the Kyoto compact, whether it's the Hollywood movie that's coming out this summer on global warming, all of those things will truly have an impact on the debate.'' 
 ''I don't want Ford to be caught unaware or for us to be always saying, 'No, we can't do something,''' he added. 
 This year, the company has feuded with environmentalists over its decisions to stop making vehicles powered by natural gas and over plans, now abandoned, to destroy a few hundred electric-powered vehicles it had once leased to drivers and had decided posed future liability issues. 
 At the same time, Ford has begun to market a hybrid electric version of its Escape sport utility vehicle, becoming the third automaker, after Toyota and Honda, to sell a hybrid that offers fuel economy gains of 40 percent or more. 
 Since becoming chief executive in 2001, Mr. Ford, 47, has been uneasily balancing his oft-stated environmental goals with a frequently bleak industrial task: righting his great-grandfather's company after a $5.5 billion loss that year. Since then, the company has recovered to post steady, if modest, profits, and Mr. Ford has said he wants to be more aggressive in setting long-range goals. 
 He and some other senior executives at the company -- though certainly not all of them -- see environmental initiatives as a critical part of the company's business strategy and are particularly concerned about Toyota's aggressive strategy to lead in fuel-efficient technologies as regulations around the world tighten. In its most recent fiscal year, Toyota more than doubled the combined earnings of Ford, General Motors and DaimlerChrysler.
 ''This is becoming an investment issue for two reasons,'' said John Casesa, an analyst at Merrill Lynch who was recently the host of a conference call assessing the potential cost of complying with tougher car regulations worldwide. 
 ''First, there is some evidence that there is natural market demand for more fuel-efficient, less-polluting automobiles,'' he said. ''The second reason is that we are entering a world where we will have a more conservation-oriented energy policy and that will require companies to comply, or face the cost of not complying.''
 Ford's strategy, somewhat similar to an approach used by BP, incorporates a goal of reducing its emissions to contribute to a stable global level of carbon concentration in the atmosphere of 550 parts per million by 2030. While that is significantly above the current level of about 370 parts per million, it is also significantly below where it could be by then if emissions are left unchecked.


GRAPHIC: Photo: William Clay Ford Jr., chairman and chief executive of Ford Motor, at a forum in September. (Photo by Bill Pugliano/Getty Images)(pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (88%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); TRENDS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (71%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (66%); DEREGULATION (66%) Air Pollution; Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Fuel Efficiency; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Air Pollution

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co; Bp Plc; Toyota Motor Corp

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%)

PERSON: William Clay Jr Ford; Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004



31 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Violence Breaks Out for a Second Day in Haiti's Struggling Capital

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
Violence erupted Friday in the Haitian capital, a day after three police officers were killed in a clash with protesters demanding the return of Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the ousted president.
 Demonstrators who appeared to be Aristide supporters fired in the air, blocked a highway with burning tires and smashed car windows in the Martissant neighborhood of Port-au-Prince, witnesses said.
 In the sprawling seaside slum of Cite Soleil, a gunman told a reporter that two street gangs loyal to Aristide were shooting it out, and one gang leader was killed overnight. 
 Several main roads in downtown Port-au-Prince were blocked by flaming barricades and piles of rocks. The usually bustling marketplace was empty.
 ''Everybody is afraid,'' said Fritz Jean, 43, who sells used televisions. ''There's no security here.''
 Joanel Louis, a 30-year-old unemployed customs officer, said Aristide supporters ordered vendors to stay off the streets on Friday. ''They told everybody to stay home,'' he said.
 Tensions have exploded in Haiti as the country struggles to recover from floods caused by Tropical Storm Jeanne two weeks ago. The storm killed more than 1,550 people and left 900 missing, most of them presumed dead. Almost all the victims were in the northwestern city of Gonaives.
 The storm's aftermath has tied up some 750 of the 3,000 United Nations troops in Haiti.
 Mr. Aristide's party, Lavalas Family, on Thursday began three days of commemoration of the coup in 1991 that unseated him the first time. It demanded an end to ''the occupation'' and ''the invasion'' by foreign troops -- referring to the American-led force that followed Mr. Aristide's ouster in February and the United Nations peacekeeping troops who have taken over since June.
 On Thursday, pro-Aristide demonstrators marching in Port-au-Prince shot and killed three police officers, and were believed to have kidnapped a fourth, Justice Minister Bernard Gousse said.
 The violence erupted during a march by supporters of Mr. Aristide, now in exile in South Africa, to commemorate the 13th anniversary of his ouster in 1991 by the Haitian Army. Thousands of slum dwellers wound through downtown Port-au-Prince, chanting, ''Like it or not, Aristide will return!'' Protesters passed through a plaza in front of the National Palace and were a few blocks away when shots rang out.
 Mr. Aristide has accused American agents of kidnapping him when he was flown out of Haiti on a American-chartered jet on Feb. 29. The United States insists that he left of his own free will.
 Mr. Aristide, a former priest, became Haiti's first freely elected president in 1990. He was ousted within months by the army, restored to power by American troops in 1994, then forced to step down by United States pressure and a term limit. But he was re-elected in 2000.
 In February, a street gang in Gonaives known as the Cannibal Army rose up against Aristide, sparking a rebellion joined by soldiers from the army that Aristide disbanded in 1995.
 American troops arrived as Mr. Aristide left but did little to disarm rebels, who are demanding the reinstatement of the army and have friendly relations with the American-installed interim government.
 While violence flared in the capital, the hungry and some of the 200,000 homeless in Gonaives were growing impatient with the slow pace of relief efforts. Hungry residents have repeatedly mobbed relief trucks and looted supplies.
 The United Nations on Friday began an appeal for $32 million in aid for Haiti. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); COUPS (90%); RIOTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); WEATHER (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); ARMIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (76%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (76%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); GANGS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PEACEKEEPING (73%); POLITICS (72%); HURRICANES (71%); TROPICAL STORMS (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%) Jeanne (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Coups D'Etat and Attempted Coups D'Etat; Politics and Government; Demonstrations and Riots

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: Jean-Bertrand Aristide

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%) Haiti; Port-Au-Prince (Haiti); Haiti

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004



32 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Sudan Agrees to Allow 3,500 African Union Troops Into Darfur

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: KHARTOUM, Sudan, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
Sudan has agreed to allow 3,500 African Union troops into war-ravaged western Darfur as a means of building confidence among civilians who, United Nations officials have repeatedly said, no longer trust their own government. Among other things, the African Union monitors will be allowed to police the Sudanese police.
 The agreement represents the largest step taken by this government to comply with the demands of the United Nations Security Council. It is already under biting international pressure, most notably the threat of sanctions, should it fail to act to restore security in Darfur. 
 The war in the west has killed tens of thousands of people and displaced nearly 1.5 million, mostly black Africans, from their homes. It began in early 2003 with a rebel uprising that demanded greater political and economic rights for the long-marginalized west. The Arab-led government cracked down, using its own military and arming private Arab militias.
 The United States has called the government's actions genocide. The United Nations Security Council, in a resolution passed in September, ordered an inquiry commission to determine whether the violence in Darfur met the criteria for genocide.
 The government's decision comes as the Security Council prepares to review a report next week on Sudan's progress made by the secretary general's special representative on Sudan, Jan Pronk. The swift expansion of African Union troops and the broadening of their mandate has been among his crucial demands. ''We need many thousands of African Union troops with a broad mandate, quick deployment, big numbers,'' Mr. Pronk said in an interview last week.
 Until now, Sudan has resolutely opposed any foreign intervention in security matters and allowed only a handful of African Union soldiers to monitor a cease-fire agreement; in the western region roughly the size of France, there are 68 unarmed monitors and 308 armed troops to protect them.
 In a speech to the Council on Foreign Relations in New York on Friday, the Sudanese foreign minister, Mustafa Osman Ismail, said his government had asked the African Union to work with its security forces in Darfur ''so that we will make sure that there is no violation of human rights, there is no killing, there is building of confidence.''
 ''We need to expand their mandate and to give them more mandates, for protection, mandate for checking, mandate for investigating, and yes, they need such mandates,'' he added.
 Adam Thiam, the spokesman for the chairman of the African Union Commission in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, said in a telephone interview on Friday evening that deployment would begin as soon as possible. Both Nigeria and Rwanda have committed the necessary number of troops, but logistical support like trucks and helicopters remain an obstacle.
 Mr. Pronk's spokeswoman, Radhia Achour, welcomed the government's move as a ''major step forward.''
 ''We do believe it will help a great deal in restoring the confidence between the population of Darfur and the government of Sudan and between Sudan and the international community,'' she said in an interview here. ''We would call on the government of Sudan to maintain this spirit of cooperation and to sustain this level of cooperation once this mission is deployed.''
 The broadened mandate of the African Union would include monitoring the Sudanese police, but would fall significantly short of authorization to protect civilians. That kind of mandate, under Chapter 7 of the United Nations Charter, has not been discussed and is unlikely to be accepted by Sudan, United Nations officials have said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (93%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); INTERVIEWS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); GENOCIDE (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); HELICOPTERS (50%) Security and Warning Systems

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN UNION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%) African Union; United Nations

PERSON: Somini Sengupta; Jan Pronk

GEOGRAPHIC: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (79%); KHARTOUM, SUDAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) SUDAN (99%); AFRICA (95%); NIGERIA (92%); RWANDA (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%) Sudan; Darfur Province (Sudan); Nigeria; Rwanda; Sudan

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004



33 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: California Screaming

BYLINE: By LEE JENKINS

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif., Oct. 1 

 BODY:
A little less than a three-hour drive south of Network Associates Coliseum and a little more than three hours north of Dodger Stadium, the peanut shells will be flying all weekend.
 The natural stopping point for anyone traveling Highway 1 between Los Angeles and the San Francisco Bay Area is the city of San Luis Obispo, tucked between the Pacific Ocean and the Sierra Madre Mountains, and aptly nicknamed S.L.O. If California were two states, a notion many of its baseball fans seem to support, San Luis Obispo would be the border town.
 This weekend, with two teams from Northern California facing two teams from Southern California and all four in contention for a playoff spot, the heart of the border war beats at the Shack Sports Bar and Grill, where peanuts are served in barrels and are not meant only to be eaten.
 ''We put the peanuts out there, and on a weekend like this, people just start throwing them at each other,'' said Stephen Aggarwal, the owner. ''We are smack in the middle of L.A. and San Francisco, so we get the hard cores from both the north and the south. This is the melting point right here.'' 
 Next to one television will be fans of the Oakland Athletics and the Anaheim Angels, who were tied for the lead in the American League West, before Anaheim won, 10-0, on Friday night. Next to another television will be followers of the Los Angeles Dodgers and the San Francisco Giants, rivals since they played in New York. The Giants defeated the Dodgers, 4-2, moving within two games of them for the National League West lead and remaining tied with Houston in the wild-card race.
 ''California is like two different states,'' said Troy Percival, the Angels' closer. ''There is no love lost between Northern California and Southern California. When these teams get together, it's sort of like Yankees-Red Sox, except we're still just one state.''
 The Athletics and the Angels are not exactly traditional rivals -- they have never played a series of such significance in the last 10 days of a season -- but this weekend could change their relationship. Not since 1980 have two teams tied for a division lead met in the final series. For the past week, travel and ticket packages to Oakland have been advertised in Southern California.
 ''When the schedule came out, I think a lot of us looked at the last weekend and figured this was a possibility,'' said Bobby Crosby, the Oakland shortstop, who hit a game-ending home run in the ninth inning on Thursday to beat Seattle, 3-2. ''Everyone thought it would be us and the Angels down the stretch. If anything can prepare you for the intensity of the playoffs, it's this series.''
 For as many years as the Dodgers and the Giants have despised each other, only once have they met in the final weekend with both teams chasing a playoff spot. In 1982, the Dodgers eliminated the Giants on the second-to-last day of the season, and the Giants turned around and eliminated the Dodgers on the last day. Likewise, the Giants eliminated the Dodgers in the final weekend in 1991, and the Dodgers did it to the Giants in 1993 and 2001.
 This has been going on since the Dodgers were playing at Ebbets Field and the Giants at the Polo Grounds. In 1951, the Dodgers blew a 13 1/2-game lead to the Giants, and now fans in Los Angeles will interrupt a regular-season game against the Colorado Rockies with derogatory chants against the Giants. In San Francisco, similarly profane chants are directed due south. One Bay Area business has even made degrading Los Angeles part of its billboard advertising campaign. 
 ''This is a divided state, and it goes back to Brooklyn and New York,'' said Bud Black, who was born in San Francisco and pitched for the Giants, but is now the Angels' pitching coach and lives in San Diego. ''The people are just different. In Northern California, they are more edgy. In Southern California, they're more casual. In Northern California, they're wearing sweaters all the time. In Southern California, they're in shorts and T-shirts.''
 Scott Spiezio is Seattle's first baseman, but he previously played for the Angels and the Athletics. ''I know it's crazy, but there's a lot of truth to that stuff,'' he said. ''The attitudes are totally opposite, and they go along with the climate. One is really bundled up, and the other is, 'Hey dude, what's going on?'''
 As with other sports and other locales, the stereotypes fuel the vitriol. To hear So-Cal fans tell it, Northern Californians are always at a protest or a concert in the park. To hear Nor-Cal fans tell it, Southern Californians are always at the beach or the mall. No one seems to care that some of their team's best players come from the opposite region.
 The Dodgers have not made the postseason since 1996 and have not won a playoff game since they captured the World Series in 1988 against Oakland. They are playing without the suspended outfielder Milton Bradley, just as the Angels are missing Jose Guillen, but Anaheim responded by reaching first this week for the first time since June. 
 In recent years, the balance of power in California rested in the north, but the tectonic plates may be shifting. Though the Giants and the Athletics have made the playoffs a combined seven of the past eight seasons, both are being severely tested for supremacy in their own state.
 Not only are the Dodgers aiming to clinch the N.L. West, they are also hoping to knock the Giants out of the wild-card race. Likewise, the winner of the A.L. West will receive the added pleasure of watching firsthand as the other team is knocked out. The personal nature of these showdowns is adding to the intrigue.
 ''There has been a lot of great baseball played in California for years,'' said Brent Mayne, the Dodgers' catcher, who also played for the Giants. ''But I think this is the high point for the whole state.''
 The weekend also represents a potential spike in the economy of California's central coast, which could get even more traffic than usual coming down from San Francisco and up from Orange County. Anyone looking for a ballgame just has to slow down and watch out for the people pelting each other with peanuts.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Angels' David Eckstein and Bobby Crosby of the Athletics. (Photo by Mark J. Terrill/Associated Press)(pg. D1)
 David Ross and the Dodgers were trying to protect their National League West lead in this weekend's series against the Giants. (Photo by Lucy Nicholson/Reuters)(pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); TOUR PACKAGES (72%); MOUNTAINS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ANAHEIM ANGELS (82%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (82%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (59%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (59%); OAKLAND A'S (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (72%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004



34 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: European Judge Questions Moves Against Microsoft

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

DATELINE: LUXEMBOURG, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
The judge in Microsoft's appeal of the antitrust measures imposed by the European Commission questioned the wisdom of those moves as the two-day hearing wound up Friday. 
 Judge Bo Vesterdorf of the European Court of First Instance appeared skeptical of the open-ended nature and practical effect of the sanctions as he questioned lawyers for Microsoft, its competitors and the European Commission. 
 On March 24, the European Commission demanded that Microsoft share secret information about its Windows operating system to allow its competitors to design and offer products that can interoperate with it. It also ordered the company to sell a stripped-down version of the Windows system in Europe without its own media player. 
 ''Isn't it inadequate to impose a remedy when you don't know what the effect is going to be?'' Judge Vesterdorf asked lawyers for the commission on Friday.
 The commission's lawyers reiterated that the sanctions would give Microsoft's competitors a better chance of selling their products because the company would not be able to distribute its own media player to almost every computer user in the world. 
 Antoine Winckler, a lawyer representing RealNetworks, a Microsoft competitor, said the practice of bundling media players into Windows' software ''forecloses competition and stifles innovation.''
 ''Any direct damage to Microsoft as a result of these sanctions would be at most negligible,'' he said.
 Microsoft, based in Redmond, Wash., has asked the court to delay the commission's sanctions until its appeals are completed, a process that would take at least two years. Judge Vesterdorf is expected to rule on that request in two months.
 The judge can decide to put the commission's sanctions into effect immediately, suspend them until Microsoft completes its appeal, or set interim sanctions that would take immediate effect while that appeal is heard.
 Complying with the commission's sanctions would be a radical departure for Microsoft. The company has successfully fought off attempts to force it to change its Windows software, which runs more than 95 percent of personal computers around the world.
 Should Microsoft decide to challenge Judge Vesterdorf's ultimate decision, it would have one last appeal -- to the president of the European Court of Justice, Europe's highest court. Horacio Gutierrez, Microsoft's top lawyer in Europe, said Judge Vesterdorf's ultimate decision would determine whether the company pursued that option. 
 Edward J. Black, president of the Computer and Communications Industry Association, a Washington lobbying group representing several companies and Microsoft rivals that support the sanctions, said he thought Microsoft would pursue every possible legal appeal. ''Their history is to appeal everything so as to delay,'' Mr. Black said.
 On Thursday, Microsoft's general counsel, Brad Smith, told the court that the company would need only three to four weeks to make its source coding for server software available to competitors. Microsoft has also said it will take only a few weeks to prepare a version of Windows without its media player.
 The hearing on Friday focused on whether to compel Microsoft to sell the Windows operating software without Media Player. Microsoft and its competitors presented radically conflicting data on the issue of Microsoft's dominance of media software.
 According to Microsoft, Windows Media Player had 38 million unique users in April 2004, while RealNetworks, its next biggest competitor, had 20 million and smaller competitors like QuickTime, 10 million or fewer. A former chief economist of the Federal Trade Commission, Frederic Scherer, who was hired by RealNetworks, cited a study that found Microsoft's media player format on 54 percent of its sampling taken in July this year, with RealNetworks present on 20 percent, and 26 percent having both products.
 Mr. Winckler, the lawyer for RealNetworks, said his client had a global market share of more than 80 percent before Microsoft began selling its Windows operating system with its own media player in May 1999.
 RealNetworks has since fallen far behind Microsoft, said Mr. Winckler, a partner at Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton in Brussels.
 ''If there was ever a case for regulatory intervention, this is it,'' Mr. Winckler said. 
 Jean-Francois Bellis, a Microsoft lawyer and a partner at Van Bael & Bellis in Brussels, said that forcing Microsoft to strip out Media Player would cause enormous technical problems for users and impose huge costs for application and Web page designers, who would have to change their products to allow them to function with Microsoft's new version.
 A group supporting Microsoft's case, the Association for Competitive Technology, presented a study that said that European software application and Web designers would incur more than 5 billion euros ($6.2 billion) in extra costs over three years to adapt their products to the stripped-down Windows version.
 Microsoft's opponents dismissed the claim, saying the company routinely required designers to upgrade their own third-party software products to conform to regular changes, fixes and upgrades in Microsoft's desktop operating systems.
 Microsoft reiterated that it was quietly making plans to alter radically the way it does business in Europe, including sharing confidential software code with competitors and selling Windows without its trademark Media Player.
 ''If these remedies aren't suspended, we have made preparations to comply,'' Mr. Gutierrez, the Microsoft lawyer, said in an interview during a break in the court hearing. ''Our first objective is to absolutely comply with any judicial order. We are not going to ignore a direct order by a high-ranking judge in the European Union.''
 Microsoft gets about a third of its global sales from Europe, the Middle East and Africa. The company does not disclose financial data solely for Europe, where it employs about 10,000 people.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Judge Bo Vesterdorf is hearing Microsoft's appeal of antitrust actions taken against it in Europe. (Photo by Francois Lenoir/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION COURTS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); APPEALS (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); LITIGATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); LOBBYING (60%) Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Suits and Litigation; Antitrust Actions and Laws

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); COMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION OF JAPAN (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union; European Court of First Instance; Microsoft Corp

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%)

PERSON: Kevin J O'Brien; Bo Vesterdorf

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); LUXEMBOURG (58%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004



35 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Car Sales Up 5.6% in Month, With G.M. and Toyota in Lead

BYLINE: By FARA WARNER

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
Auto sales rose 5.6 percent in September from last year, with General Motors and Toyota posting double-digit gains, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank.
 The strong September, which came after a disappointing August, was indicative of the roller coaster trend the industry, in particular the domestic automakers, has encountered for several months. Often, a sluggish sales month has been followed by a big surge as automakers come back with higher cash and financing incentives and more inventive marketing programs. 
 Sales at G.M. jumped 19.9 percent, after a decline of 7 percent in August, a gain stemming partly from a program that offered consumers no-interest financing on a six-year loan. 
 The sales increase gave G.M. one of its highest monthly market shares -- 31.8 percent -- in several years. That surge, however, came after a 7 percent decline in sales for G.M. in August. Through the first nine months of the year, G.M.'s sales increased 1.2 percent, unadjusted for differing numbers of selling days each month, and the company controlled a 27.7 percent share of the American market, according to the Autodata Corporation of Woodcliff Lake, N.J.
 In addition to the financing incentives, G.M. spent heavily to promote its no-interest loan program on television and in newspaper advertising.
 The move bolstered some G.M. brands. ''Chevrolet and GMC did far better than we expected,'' said Jesse Toprak, director of pricing and market analysis at Edmunds.com, an online car-research site. ''That tells me that this event worked for them, it increased the urgency of the deal and worked better than it did for Ford.'' 
 Chevrolet's sales increased 36 percent, to 283,264 cars and trucks in September.
 Ford also offered no-interest loans, but the No. 2 automaker's sales declined 9.2 percent, according to Ward's. Even so, Ford's F-150 truck continues to sell well, with an increase of 22 percent over last year.
 Despite the strong September sales, industry executives remain somewhat cautious about the months ahead. G.M. said it would make 10,000 fewer vehicles in the fourth quarter, its second reduction in production for the fourth quarter. Ford had previously announced that it would cut production in the fourth quarter by 7.8 percent. Ford has made no further revisions to its production estimates.
 But Jarlath Costello, the United States economist for Ford, said that rising energy costs and weaker job creation in the third quarter ''were providing an element of caution in their planning.''
 To maintain September's momentum, G.M. and Ford have announced enhanced incentives in October, said Mr. Toprak of Edmunds.com. G.M. is offering rebates of $6,000 on many of its 2004 vehicles, and $2,500 on some of its new 2005 model year vehicles. Ford is offering up to $2,000 on some of its 2005 vehicles. 
 Both companies continue to have large inventories of vehicles, more than 1.1 million for G.M and 786,000 for Ford, although those stockpiles are down from July.
 Any change in the incentives is likely to force others to rethink their strategies once again. Gary Dilts, senior vice president for sales at the Chrysler Group, said in a telephone conference call that next week the company would announce revisions to its incentives, which have included $1,000 cash back if consumers use the company's financing unit for their loans. 
 Chrysler's sales increased 8.77 percent, with continued strong sales of the 300C and an increase in minivan sales. Sales of the Chrysler Town & Country were up 19 percent. Dodge Caravan sales rose 30 percent.
 Toyota sales were up 10.35 percent in September, according to Ward's. And through the first nine months of the year, Toyota's market share was 12.1 percent, up from 11.2 percent a year ago.
 Nissan sales jumped 10.95 percent in September, helped by a 24 percent increase in sales of its Altima sedan. Autodata reported Nissan's market share at 5.7 percent in the first nine months of 2004, compared with 4.7 percent in the period a year earlier.
 According to Autodata, through the first nine months of this year, Asian brands, including Hyundai and Kia, controlled 34.3 percent of the United States market compared with 59.1 percent for G.M., Ford and Chrysler combined. European brands hold the remaining 6.6 percent.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Auto Sales in September''ANNUAL SELLING RATEFor cars and light trucks (includes minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickups) sold in the United States.Graph tracks the annual selling rate for light trucks and cars from March 2003-Sept. 2004.INDUSTRY SALESFor vehicles sold in the United States.Cars2004: 605,8112003: 596,050CHANGE*: -2.4%Light trucks2004: 825,2702003: 705,188CHANGE*: +12.4Total2004: 1,431,0812003: 1,301,238CHANGE*: -5.6CAR SALESLeading U.S. sellers.G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 170,879CHANGE: + 2.9%MARKET SHARE: 28.1%ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 88,047CHANGE: +12.0MARKET SHARE: 14.5Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 70,683CHANGE: -22.2MARKET SHARE: 11.7HondaNUMBER SOLD: 64,199CHANGE: - 4.7MARKET SHARE: 10.6Daimler-ChryslerSNUMBER$ SOLD: 52,056CHANGE: + 5.5MARKET SHARE: 8.6NissanNUMBER SOLD: 44,362CHANGE: - 1.4MARKET SHARE: 7.3TOP-SELLING VEHICLESThe most popular vehicles and changes from a year earlier.Ford F-SeriesNUMBER SOLD: 99,720MARKET SHARE: +17.1%Chevrolet SilveradoNUMBER SOLD: 77,077MARKET SHARE: +46.1Toyota CamryNUMBER SOLD: 34,628MARKET SHARE: - 0.2Dodge RamNUMBER SOLD: 33,690MARKET SHARE: + 2.1Chevrolet ImpalaNUMBER SOLD: 30,776MARKET SHARE: +32.5Ford ExplorerNUMBER SOLD: 30,448MARKET SHARE: -20.3Honda AccordNUMBER SOLD: 30,346MARKET SHARE: -11.9Chevrolet TrailblazerNUMBER SOLD: 28,175MARKET SHARE: +56.8Toyota CorollaNUMBER SOLD: 26,246MARKET SHARE: + 3.6GMC SierraNUMBER SOLD: 23,588MARKET SHARE: +47.2Chevrolet MalibuNUMBER SOLD: 23,525MARKET SHARE: +41.5Honda CivicNUMBER SOLD: 22,041MARKET SHARE: - 7.3LIGHT TRUCK SALESLeading U.S. sellers.G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 284,169CHANGE: +33.1MARKET SHARE: 34.4%Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 205,145CHANGE: - 3.7MARKET SHARE: 24.9Daimler-ChryslerSNUMBER$ SOLD: 134,151CHANGE: + 10.1MARKET SHARE: 16.3ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 73,746CHANGE: + 8.5MARKET SHARE: 8.9HondaNUMBER SOLD: 44,271CHANGE: + 1.2MARKET SHARE: 5.4NissanNUMBER SOLD: 36,009CHANGE: +31.2MARKET SHARE: 4.4*Based on average daily sales, including fleet sales, adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month. +Includes Volvo and Land Rover sales. SIncludes$ Mercedes-Benz sales.(Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); MARKET SHARE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); TRENDS (78%); SALES REBATES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); JOB CREATION (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PRINT ADVERTISING (50%) Automobiles; Sales; International Trade and World Market; Automobiles

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Ward's Auto Info Bank; General Motors Corp; Toyota Motor Corp; Daimlerchrysler Ag; Ford Motor Co; Nissan Motor Co

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: Fara Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004



36 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Crude Oil Futures Top $50 On Concerns About Supply
Concerns about the interruption of supplies from the Gulf of Mexico because of Hurricane Ivan and threats to oil production because of unrest in Nigeria tipped crude oil over $50.
 The price of crude oil for November delivery rose 48 cents, or 1 percent, to $50.12 a barrel. The prices of gasoline and home heating oil also shot higher. [Page C3.]

Now that ConocoPhillips has acquired the Russian government's 7.59 percent stake in Lukoil, Vagit Y. Alekperov, the chief executive of Lukoil, is trying to transform the Russian oil company into an international oil giant. [C3.]

Auto Sales Strong in September
Auto sales rose 5.6 percent in September, with General Motors and Toyota posting double-digit increases. [C4.]

Corporate Pressure on the Air Force
When a legal office of the United States Air Force questioned possible ''unethical or overly aggressive'' sales tactics by First Command Financial Planning, the company did not like it one bit and fought back. Before all was said and done, the Air Force's second most powerful general was involved. [A1.]

A Lack of Shining Late-Night Stars
NBC's decision this week to settle the future of the ''Tonight'' show years before it was necessary demonstrated the surprising paucity of identifiable future late-night stars. [B7.]

Bill Would Control Medical Sales
The chairman and the ranking member of the Senate antitrust subcommittee jointly introduced a bill that would give the government new powers to regulate the sale of medical products to hospitals. [C12.]

New Doubts by Microsoft Judge
The judge in Microsoft's appeal of the antitrust measures imposed by the European Commission questioned the wisdom of the open-ended nature and practical effect of the sanctions. [C3.]

Chief of Northwest Air Resigns
Richard H. Anderson, left, has resigned as chief executive of Northwest Airlines to become an executive vice president at UnitedHealth. He will remain on the board of the airline. Northwest named its president, Douglas M. Steenland, 53, as its new chief executive. With Mr. Anderson's departure, all seven of the nation's major airlines have replaced their chief executives or announced their departure since September 2001. [C13.]

John Selvaggio, the president of the Song low-fare unit of Delta Air Lines, resigned to pursue personal interests. [C13.]

Fewer Wealthy People Paying Taxes
Nearly 3,400 of the tax returns reporting incomes of $200,000 or more showed they owed no federal income taxes in 2001, a rise of nearly 45 percent over 2000, according to government data. [C13.]

Some News Groups Leaving Iraq
News organizations from France, Germany, Italy and other European nations have scaled back their presence in Iraq, citing the danger and unpredictability of the insurgency. [A6.]

Stocks Rally to Begin 4th Quarter
Stock trading was heavy at the start of the fourth quarter with the Nasdaq composite index gaining 45.36 points, to 1,942.20. The Dow Jones industrial average surged 112.38 points, or 1.1 percent, to 10,192.65, while the S.&P. 500 index rose 16.92 points, to 1,131.50. [C4.]

Manufacturing activity remained strong in September and construction spending rose 0.8 percent in August. But the University of Michigan's index of consumer confidence for September was lower than had been expected by economists. [C3.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,192.65 up 112.38Nasdaq composite -- 1,942.20 up 45.3610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.19% up 0.07The euro -- $1.2407 down 0.0026The dollar -- 110.40 yen up 0.47Graph tracks crude oil prices (November contract), since Jan. 2004. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AIRLINES (89%); FUTURES (89%); HEATING OIL (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); HURRICANES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); LEGISLATION (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (64%); INCOME TAX (60%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); OAO LUKOIL (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (91%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); LKOH (RTS) (57%); LKOD (LSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); DAL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (53%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

PERSON: DOUGLAS M STEENLAND (79%); VAGIT ALEKPEROV (58%); RICHARD H ANDERSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%) EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (92%); NIGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); FRANCE (77%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004



37 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Bill Would Tighten Controls On Purchasing by Hospitals

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The chairman and the ranking member of the Senate antitrust subcommittee jointly introduced a bill yesterday that would give the government new powers to regulate the sale of medical products to hospitals, a part of the health care economy where numerous abuses have been uncovered in the last two years.
 Mike DeWine, an Ohio Republican, and Herb Kohl, a Wisconsin Democrat, said in a statement that their Senate bill was intended to prevent anticompetitive and unethical practices and to ensure that doctors and patients get the best available products at appropriate prices. 
 In a hearing last month, the two heard evidence of questionable dealings in the industry, even after two years of investigation and after calls for reform by the antitrust subcommittee and other federal and state agencies. 
 The subcommittee, a part of the Senate Judiciary Committee, began its investigation after a series of articles in The New York Times in 2002 called attention to the business practices of two large private companies that award group purchasing contracts on behalf of most of the nation's nonprofit hospitals.
 Hospitals have long banded together to purchase supplies, contending that they could negotiate better prices as a group. But over time, the purchasing alliances have evolved into for-profit companies, some of them very large, handling billions of dollars worth of transactions with little public or regulatory oversight. 
 Because the purchasing companies are financed by the same manufacturers whose products they are supposed to evaluate, they have been granted a ''safe harbor'' from the broad federal laws that usually preclude parties from paying or receiving money that could influence health care decisions. Many of the federal and state inquiries have been examining whether the industry's ''safe harbor'' waiver should be revoked entirely. 
 The Senate bill would take less drastic steps. It would allow the purchasing companies to keep receiving money from the medical supply industry. But it would limit the payments to 3 percent of the amount of the related hospital purchases -- the current limit is ambiguous -- and it would clarify other rules that are either mentioned vaguely or not at all by the present law.
 The bill would also direct the Department of Health and Human Services to monitor the purchasing companies and to certify whether they are in compliance with the rules. Companies found to be taking improper payments or committing other violations would lose their safe harbor protection, which could very likely put them out of business. 
 Hospitals and their purchasing companies have expressed mixed reactions to the Senate bill, which they had seen in draft form before today's introduction. The Health Industry Group Purchasing Association has testified that its members -- which include both the purchasing companies and the manufacturers -- are already improving their ethical standards voluntarily and need no further regulation. But some executives say that the many investigations have damaged the industry's image and that the Senate bill would be a reasonable way of resolving the questions about their business practices. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ETHICS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DEREGULATION (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (72%); EVIDENCE (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%) Medicine and Health; Ethics; Hospitals; Law and Legislation; Antitrust Actions and Laws; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

PERSON: HERB KOHL (78%) Mike (Sen) Dewine; Herbert H (Sen) Kohl; Mary Williams Walsh

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004



38 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC RUNNING MATE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: With His Own Debate Nearing, Edwards Focuses on Domestic Issues

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: ERIE, Pa., Oct. 1 

 BODY:
Seeking to turn attention to domestic issues with his vice-presidential debate just days away, Senator John Edwards on Friday delivered a scathing critique of the Bush administration's record on the economy and health care costs.
 Campaigning in Huber Heights, Ohio, just outside of Dayton, before arriving here for an evening lakefront rally, he asked an audience, ''Why in the world would the people of Ohio rehire a man who cost them hundreds of thousands of jobs?''
 Recent data shows nationwide job gains and a decline in the unemployment rate in August, but Mr. Edwards focused on overall job losses in manufacturing and other businesses in the past four years and a rise in the number of people without health insurance. Those numbers, he said, portray the nation, and specifically Ohio and Pennsylvania, in economic distress. 
 Kerry campaign officials said they viewed Mr. Edwards's debate with Vice President Dick Cheney on Tuesday in Cleveland, which will include both foreign and domestic topics, as an opportunity to attack Mr. Bush on the economy before his debate with Senator Kerry on Friday in St. Louis and another debate focusing on domestic concerns on Oct. 13 in Tempe, Ariz.
 Mr. Edwards hailed Mr. Kerry's performance in Thursday's debate, which focused on foreign policy, and he sought to rebut Mr. Bush's criticism of Mr. Kerry as sending ''mixed messages'' on terrorism and Iraq.
 ''I heard a very clear message from John Kerry,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''To our troops, we are with you. To terrorists, we will find and destroy you, and to the American people, we will keep you safe.''
 At the rally here and earlier at a town-hall-style meeting outside Dayton, Mr. Edwards turned to much of his standard remarks, blaming the Bush administration for higher costs of gasoline, child care and prescription drugs.
 Kevin Madden, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, said Mr. Bush's policies of tax cuts for small businesses and other measures were taking root and would fuel an economic turnaround in struggling states. 
 Mr. Madden said Mr. Kerry's policies would lead to a higher tax bite, ''smothering the economic recovery and making it bad for working families.''
 Mr. Edwards's appearance dovetailed with a television commercial the Democratic National Committee said it would run Friday in Ohio. The advertisement notes a high rate of home foreclosure and bankruptcies in the state, blaming Republicans but not explaining how. 
 The Bush campaign responded with census figures showing an increase in home ownership and housing values in Ohio in the past few years.
 Mr. Edwards will spend the weekend at a retreat in Chautauqua, N.Y., to prepare for his debate. He plans to spar with Robert Barnett, a prominent Washington lawyer who played Mr. Cheney for Senator Joseph I. Lieberman's practice sessions in 2000 when Mr. Lieberman was the Democratic vice-presidential nominee.
 Mr. Cheney plans to practice at his home in Wyoming, with Representative Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, playing Mr. Edwards.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Edwards greeted Anita Spalla on Friday in Huber Heights, Ohio. A vice-presidential debate is scheduled for Tuesday. (Photo by David Kohl/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); FAMILY (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); TERRORISM (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); CENSUS (71%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); FORECLOSURE (63%); TAX LAW (61%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Debating; United States Economy; Labor; Unemployment; Presidential Election of 2004; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (93%); JOHN KERRY (89%); DICK CHENEY (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) Randal C Archibold; John (Sen) Edwards; George W (Pres) Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (88%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); ERIE, PA, USA (71%) OHIO, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%) Ohio

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004



39 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: CORRUPTION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: 3 Nations Reportedly Slowed Probe Of Oil Sales

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER

 BODY:
Congressional investigators say that France, Russia and China systematically sabotaged the former United Nations oil-for-food program in Iraq by preventing the United States and Britain from investigating whether Saddam Hussein was diverting billions of dollars. 
 In a briefing paper given yesterday to members of the House subcommittee investigating the program, the investigators said their review of the minutes of a United Nations Security Council subcommittee meeting showed that the three nations ''continually refused to support the U.S. and U.K. efforts to maintain the integrity'' of the program.
 The program, set up in 1996, was an effort to keep pressure on Mr. Hussein to disarm while helping the Iraqi people survive the sanctions imposed after the invasion of Kuwait in 1990. The briefing paper was prepared by the House Subcommittee on National Security, Emerging Threats and International Relations, before hearings scheduled for Tuesday on the scandal-ridden program. 
 The paper suggests that France, Russia and China blocked inquiries into Iraq's manipulation of the program because their companies ''had much to gain from maintaining'' the status quo. ''Their businesses made billions of dollars through their involvement with the Hussein regime and O.F.F.P.,'' the document states, using the initials for the program. No officials of the three governments could be reached for comment. 
 The paper also accuses the United Nations office charged with overseeing the program of having ''pressed'' contractors not to rigorously inspect Iraqi oil being sold and the foreign goods being bought. The program office, headed by Benan Sevan, who is also under investigation by a committee appointed by the United Nations, turned a blind eye to corruption charges, the paper says, because it apparently saw oil-for-food ''strictly as a humanitarian program.'' 
 Representative Christopher Shays, the Connecticut Republican who chairs the subcommittee, said in an interview that there was no doubt that the abuses were systemic and that blame for the widespread corruption must be shared by Security Council members, the United Nations office that administered the program, and the contractors hired by the United Nations to inspect Iraq's oil exports and aid purchases. 
 The briefing paper said the hearing would focus on Cotecna, the Switzerland-based company hired by the United Nations in 1999 to monitor goods shipped to Iraq, and Saybolt International B.V., the Dutch company that monitored Iraqi oil exports.
 Also under scrutiny will be BNP Paribas, the French bank that handled oil revenues under the program and which ''never initiated a review of the program or the reputation of those involved,'' the paper says. This ''apparent incuriosity,'' it adds, ''raises questions about its internal due diligence and ethical safeguards.''
 The paper said Mr. Hussein's government had influenced whom Saybolt and Cotecna employed and had made it hard for them to obtain the equipment and supplies they needed. ''This slowed the inspection process, making it difficult for the inspectors to carry out their duties and easier for the Iraqis to pressure the inspectors or sneak things past the inspection regime,'' the paper says.
 Cotecna, which monitored goods bought by Iraq, ''had no authority to force authentication or inspection on shipments coming across the border, nor did they have the practical authority to detain shipments that failed authentication or inspection.'' 
 The subcommittee paper called Cotecna a ''paper tiger.'' 
 The paper concludes that the program's greatest weakness was a lack of transparency. ''Most transactions involving the program were done behind closed doors or sometimes illicitly,'' it states. The lists of oil purchasers and aid providers were not known. The United Nations internal audits continue to be withheld from United Nations members and the public.
 A recent report issued in Washington by the Government Accountability Office, formerly the General Accounting Office, accused the Hussein government of having pocketed more than $10 billion from the six-year oil-for-food program, which used $64.2 billion in Iraqi oil sales to pay for food, medicine and other goods from 1997 to 2003. Last February, a document from Iraqi ministries reportedly cited Mr. Sevan, the chief of the United Nations office that administered the program, as having received oil allotments himself. Mr. Sevan has denied the charges. 
 The Shays subcommittee is investigating all aspects of the program, as are several other Congressional panels and the United Nations-appointed panel, which is headed by Paul A. Volcker, former chairman of the Federal Reserve. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); ETHICS (75%); INTERVIEWS (67%); TERRORISM (59%) Ethics; Frauds and Swindling; Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Oil-for-Food Program (Un)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (58%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%) United Nations; Cotecna; Saybolt International Bv; Bnp Paribas Sa

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%); ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (59%) Judith Miller; Benan Sevan; Saddam Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) IRAQ (96%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); FRANCE (90%); KUWAIT (79%); NETHERLANDS (74%) Iraq; France; Russia; China; Iraq; Great Britain; Switzerland; Netherlands

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004



40 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: BUSH AND KERRY FOLLOW DEBATE WITH SHARP JABS

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and DAVID M. HALBFINGER; Elisabeth Bumiller reported from Manchester, N.H., for this article and David M. Halbfinger from Tampa, Fla. Todd S. Purdum contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Oct. 1 

 BODY:
A day after the first presidential debate, President Bush ripped into Senator John Kerry on Friday as an equivocator who denigrates American troops and who would subject national security decisions to vetoes ''by countries like France.''
 Mr. Kerry, with strategists in both parties saying he had helped himself in the first of three debates with Mr. Bush, acted at campaign rallies in Florida as though he had instantly taken the upper hand. He told thousands of screaming Democrats that Mr. Bush thought he could ''fool you all the time'' on everything from Iraq to the economy. He mocked Mr. Bush as a stammering Elmer Fudd who was misstating Mr. Kerry's position on Iraq: ''He keeps trying to say, 'Well, we're-not-we-don't-no-we-don't-you-know, we don't want somebody who wants to leave.'''
 As his crowd erupted in laughter, Mr. Kerry went on: ''He says, 'We don't, we don't want to wilt or waver,' and I don't know how many times I heard that. Well, Mr. President, nobody's talking about leaving, nobody's talking about wilting and wavering. We're talking about winning and getting the job done right.'' 
 Mr. Bush furiously stepped up his own attacks. At his first campaign stop of the day, an outdoor rally in Allentown, Pa., he devoted the first seven minutes of his speech to strong new criticism of Mr. Kerry as the candidate who could not be trusted to protect the nation from terrorist attacks.
 Campaigning in two swing states, the president also made fun of Mr. Kerry for saying in the debate that one solution to Iraq would be an international summit. ''I've been to a lot of summits,'' Mr. Bush said. ''I've never seen a meeting that would depose a tyrant, or bring a terrorist to justice.''
 Democrats spent their day in a jubilant mood as they cited three instant postdebate polls showing Mr. Kerry the victor and insisted that the senator now had the momentum in the race. Republicans conceded that Mr. Kerry had done well, but Bush aides claimed that he had widened his credibility gap to a ''canyon,'' as Ken Mehlman, Mr. Bush's campaign manager, told reporters.
 But in a sign that the Bush campaign suddenly found itself on the defensive, the president's chief political adviser, Karl Rove, who is normally elusive to the press, sought out reporters to push the campaign's argument that Mr. Kerry was a walking contradiction on Thursday night and that Mr. Bush was focused and pensive during the encounter, not peevish.
 ''That wasn't irritated,'' Mr. Rove said. ''I know irritated.''
 But Republicans outside the White House said it was Mr. Kerry who had stood out. Representative Peter T. King of New York said in an interview that ''people who thought Kerry was going to get knocked out of the box -- he's still in there.''
 ''I was never one who thought this was going to be an easy race,'' Mr. King said.
 One veteran Republican strategist who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of offending the White House said: ''Part of Bush's strength is his simplicity, but in that forum, it became shallowness. That was a high-minded debate and there was a lot more depth to Kerry and his points than to Bush.''
 ''He can recover,'' the strategist said, invoking Ronald Reagan's first underwhelming debate against Walter F. Mondale 20 years ago. ''Reagan had a week of pain, and then brought it back.''
 Throughout the day, the Democrats hammered away at the idea that Mr. Bush was angry and frustrated during his encounter with Mr. Kerry. The Democratic National Committee released a ''Faces of Frustration'' video of Mr. Bush's reactions and facial expressions as Mr. Kerry spoke Thursday night. And Joe Lockhart, a top Kerry strategist, told reporters in a conference call that Mr. Bush had seemed ''agitated, annoyed and fidgety.''
 Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, who traveled with Mr. Bush to the event in Allentown and another one in Manchester, N.H., sought to shore up the president, although he got off to an unusual start as Mr. Bush boarded Air Force One in Miami en route to Pennsylvania.
 Speaking to reporters on the tarmac about the performance of Mr. Kerry, a friend, Mr. McCain said: ''He presented himself well, John did. Kerry came out slugging. In the last six weeks, it was probably his brightest moment.''
 Mr. Bush, who held a lead in many national polls before the debate, pressed the themes of security, which have been a cornerstone of his campaign. 
 ''A crucial difference between my opponent and me is the most important question for voters this election: Who can lead this war against terror to victory?'' Mr. Bush said in a Pennsylvania park by the Little Lehigh River. ''Which candidate can best protect America's families and our national security?''
 He ridiculed Mr. Kerry's statement in the debate that he would only pre-emptively attack another nation in a way that ''passes the global test where your countrymen, your people understand fully why you're doing what you're doing, and you can prove to the world that you did it for legitimate reasons.''
 The president said Mr. Kerry ''wants our national security decisions subject to the approval of a foreign government.'' As the invited crowd booed, Mr. Bush added: ''Listen, I'll continue to work with our allies and the international community -- but I will never submit America's national security to an international test. The use of troops to defend America must never be subject to a veto by countries like France.''
 Mr. Kerry did not mention France in the Florida debate, although he did utter the words ''Charles de Gaulle'' in the context of the global test, saying that that French president accepted the word of President John F. Kennedy about crucial evidence during the Cuban missile crisis. The Bush White House, in the run-up to the Iraq war, was enraged by what it considered France's obstructionist behavior, and the Bush campaign and other Republicans have mocked Mr. Kerry for his distant French ancestry.
 Mr. Kerry, too, talked of national security issues and did not back away from his calls for more international support for United States efforts. In Tampa, he repeated his vow to hold a summit with leaders of Arab and Muslim nations.
 ''And I will personally attend it, lead it,'' he said. ''We will go to the region, we will do everything necessary to pull countries to the table to share in what the world has a stake in -- and I will fight a smarter, more effective war on terror that actually makes America safer in this world.''
 Mr. Kerry, who set off a cataclysmic round of applause and foot-stomping in a Tampa university arena, sounded relieved as he said the debate had finally given him a chance to stand side by side with Mr. Bush as ''two people -- no 30-second ads, no distortions, and talk about the truth to the American people.''
 Mr. Kerry noted that he had called attention during the debate to what he called the administration's domestic security failings -- that 95 percent of shipping containers coming through the nation's ports were not being inspected, for example. He seized on a report by the Homeland Security Department's inspector general criticizing the administration for failing to combine the various terrorist watch lists.
 ''This is the single biggest task of the Homeland Security Department, it's a complete failure, and yet this president stands there and pretends to America we're doing all we can,'' Mr. Kerry said. 
 The Bush campaign responded that the administration had created an extensive terrorist screening database available to state and local governments 24 hours a day and that it had a comprehensive plan in place to protect the nation's ports.
 As the crowd in Tampa yelled out that Mr. Kerry had bested Mr. Bush in the debate, the senator stopped them, saying it had just been one good night. 
 ''No, no, no, no, no, let me make it clear to everybody,'' he said. ''We have to win every day from now to Nov. 2.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: RAUCOUS CROWD IN TAMPA -- Senator John Kerry said yesterday, ''We have to win every day from now to Nov. 2.'' (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)
 HITTING BACK IN ALLENTOWN -- Senator John McCain joined President Bush at a postdebate rally yesterday. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TERRORISM (86%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); KARL ROVE (58%) Elisabeth Bumiller; David M Halbfinger; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Karl Rove

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (78%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (69%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (92%) Pennsylvania; New Hampshire; Florida; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004



41 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1696 words

HEADLINE: Artworks Rushed to Auctions As Houses Expect Heated Sales

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
Art collectors opening their mailboxes this month will find auction catalogs bursting with famous images. There is Brancusi's sculpture ''The Kiss,'' shown recently at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum; a Modigliani portrait so loved by its owner that she has repeatedly refused to lend it for any museum exhibitions; ''0 Through 9,'' a 1961 Jasper Johns drawing from one of the artist's best-known series; and Andy Warhol's 1963 Pop image of race riots in Birmingham, Ala. 
 Sensing that a heated market may soon reach its peak, collectors have consigned hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of artworks for the November sales at New York's auction houses. Sotheby's and Christie's say the estimated sales totals are the highest in nearly 15 years.
 Usually it is the so-called 3-D's -- death, divorce and debt -- that motivate people to sell at auction. But this fall, in addition to the many millions of dollars that the auction houses are estimating people will pay to get what some in the business call ''wall power,'' many collectors have simply decided that now is the moment to cash in. 
 While few sellers will acknowledge it, many seem to be asking themselves how much higher prices will go before the bubble bursts.
 Lord Hindlip, a former chairman of Christie's who is a private dealer, said, ''There's been terribly little on the market for years now, and people have been hanging on.
 ''Perhaps they think now is not such a bad time to sell,'' he added. ''It may not get a whole lot better.'' Officials at Sotheby's and Christie's report that the estimates for their evening sales of Impressionist, modern and contemporary art, which begin on Nov. 3, are the highest since May 1990, six months before the art market crashed. Sotheby's evening sale of Impressionist and modern art is expected to bring in $208.4 million to $290.6 million; Christie's, $111.9 million to $158.2 million. 
 Sotheby's predicts its contemporary art sales will fetch $80.7 million to $107.8 million, and Christie's puts its contemporary total at $69.1 million to $94.7 million.
 ''This is not just a blip,'' said Tobias Meyer, director of Sotheby's contemporary art department worldwide. ''The continuity of strong prices is confidence-building. In 1910, collectors were buying Gainsboroughs at what then seemed like astronomical prices. The same thing is happening now for 20th-century art.'' 
 The results of the twice-yearly auctions of Impressionist, modern and contemporary art in New York affect the entire art market because dealers price their inventories according to what people pay at those sales. Collectors watch the sales closely too, calculating the net worth hanging on their walls.
 The most recent round of New York evening sales, in May, when prices for postwar and contemporary art far exceeded expectations, have whetted sellers' eagerness. 
 Allan Schwartzman, a Manhattan art adviser, said the November sales would offer ''extraordinary opportunities that didn't exist even a few years ago'' as more and more rich collectors pursued an ever shrinking supply. 
 The list of sellers this season reads like a who's who of Impressionist, modern and contemporary collectors. The Hollywood executive David Geffen has entrusted Sotheby's to sell over $16 million worth of works by Johns and de Kooning that he has owned for years. Lew Manilow, a Chicago real estate developer, lawyer and philanthropist, is offering ''Three Sisters,'' a 1965 painting by Gerhard Richter with an estimate of $4 million to $5 million, at Sotheby's. The Manhattan real estate developer Richard Lane and his wife, Barbara, an interior designer, hope to get about $15 million at Christie's for their Warhol ''Birmingham Race Riot,'' a silkscreen on paper inspired by a 1963 newspaper photo.
 Baroness Marion Lambert, wife of Baron Philippe Lambert, a member of a Belgian banking family, is parting with her entire collection of contemporary photographs at a smaller auction house, Phillips de Pury & Company, in collaboration with Philippe Segalot, a Manhattan dealer. 
 ''It's a good time,'' said Dorothy Cherry, the widow of Wendell Cherry, chairman of Humana, the Louisville, Ky.-based health care company, who died in 1991. ''There were a lot of unstable times after 9/11, but the wheels have turned.''
 Mrs. Cherry is the owner of the prized Modigliani, ''Jeanne Hebuterne (in Front of a Door),'' a 1919 painting that is expected to go for $20 million to $30 million at Sotheby's. ''It's an interesting moment in the art market,'' she said. ''There are a lot of new and impressive collectors who know exactly what they are doing.''
 She has owned the painting since her husband bought it in the early 1980's. For years, Mrs. Cherry said, she rejected advances from auction house experts, dealers and collectors who coveted the work. 
 But now, she said, ''I want to take care of my children.'' 
 ''I always said if I had nothing left but a tent, I'd hang it in the tent -- but life changes,'' she said. ''I don't imagine the image will ever be out of my eyes.'' 
 Mrs. Cherry is one of the few sellers this season who have not asked Sotheby's or Christie's for financing. 
 Since selling at auction is always a gamble, like betting on horses or playing the stock market, the majority of sellers request a hefty financial commitment from each house in the form of a guarantee, an undisclosed sum that goes to the seller regardless of a sale's outcome. 
 ''The number of guarantees is substantially higher'' this time ''because we are as confident as our clients,'' said Brett Gorvy, a co-head of Christie's department of postwar and contemporary art. ''We're all being more aggressive because we have to.'' 
 And unlike sellers in November 2001 and in 2002, few collectors have sought a clause in their sales contracts stipulating that they can remove their works from an auction in the event of another terrorist attack. ''America's a culture of denial,'' Mr. Meyer said. What's more, he said, ''people today really believe in the strength of the market.''
 Particularly the American market. Christopher Eykyn, head of Christie's Impressionist and modern art in New York, said there were more European sellers this season, too. ''It is an obvious response to the strength of the euro against the dollar,'' he said. 
 Among the highlights of the Christie's sale is one of Monet's well-known images of London's Houses of Parliament, which is being sold by an unidentified Paris family. Painted in 1904, it is expected to get between $12 million to $18 million. 
 Most discretionary sellers refuse to be identified. Many, like Mr. Geffen and the Lanes, refuse to speak about the works they are selling, and their names appear nowhere in the auction catalogs. But over the years either their names have appeared in catalogs of exhibitions for which the works were lent, or their ownership was known to top dealers who keep track of such important works of art. 
 It is easy to tell whether Sotheby's or Christie's has a financial interest in art they sell because the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs requires that if a guarantee exists, that fact must be noted in the catalogs. While neither Christie's nor Sotheby's would discuss the details of such deals, both companies have invested heavily, often competing against each other to get the business. 
 The guarantees granted this season are particularly high. Experts in the field say that the Lanes, for example, received a $12 million guarantee from Christie's for their Warhol, which it is estimated will bring $15 million. Hester Diamond, widow of the modern art dealer Harold Diamond, received a guarantee of about $65 million from Sotheby's for a group of modern paintings and sculptures by such artists as Modigliani, Kandinsky and Brancusi, experts close to the negotiations said on the condition of anonymity. 
 Beyond the market's ups and downs, many sellers say they have other reasons for selling. 
 ''We're downsizing,'' said Mr. Manilow, who has owned the 1965 Richter painting since the 1980's. 
 ''Of course it's an incredible time in the market,'' he added. ''I've lived through the 1980's boom and the 1990's bust. There's bad news in the world every day, and still the art market goes up.'' 
 Ms. Diamond is selling the Brancusi ''Kiss'' along with a painting from Mondrian's famous ''New York/Boogie-Woogie'' series that is expected to sell for $20 million to $30 million. ''Sketch for Deluge II,'' a lyrical abstract painting by Kandinsky from 1912, is also supposed to sell for $20 million to $30 million. 
 ''I know it's a good moment to sell, but that's not what's moving me,'' she said. She said her interest had shifted toward Renaissance paintings and sculptures. 
 Even if her decision was not market driven, Ms. Diamond admits the artists she is selling are hot right now. ''Five years ago these pictures would be poison for the auction market,'' she said. ''But tastes have changed.'' 
 When it comes to popular taste, Baroness Lambert says she is not so sure her single-owner sale at Phillips on Nov. 8 and 9 will be a success, despite the house's $10 million estimate for the group of 300 contemporary photographs. Known as a pioneer who bought works by artists like Matthew Barney and Richard Prince before they were discovered, she calls the collection ''a time capsule, a unique moment in collecting.''
 Fifteen years ago she planned to have the collection exhibited in a bank in Geneva, but in the end the bank declined because it considered the works too shocking, she said. So she sent the collection traveling around the world. 
 She had intended the photographs to go to her children, she said, but her daughter died in 1997, and her son is not interested in collecting. 
 ''It may be too intellectual for America,'' she said of the works. 
 Asked if she was finally selling because the market for those artists is particularly strong now, she replied: ''I don't like all the hype. If you look at the world and see how things are falling apart, there's something almost unreal about spending so much money on art. Is this all we have to hold on to?''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 9, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Sunday about the abundance of valuable artworks to be offered for auction in New York this fall misstated the medium for a 1963 work by Andy Warhol depicting racial violence in Birmingham, Ala. It is silk-screen on canvas, not paper.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Baroness Marion Lambert, with the help of a Manhattan dealer, is putting her collection of contemporary photographs up for auction. (Photo by Alban Kakulya/Strates)
 Modigliani's ''Jeanne Hebuterne (in Front of a Door),'' left, could sell for at least $20 million at Sotheby's. ''The Kiss'' by Brancusi, above, is also on the market. (Photo by Sotheby's)(pg. 36)Graph: ''Auction House Sales Expected to Soar''Total sales for Sotheby's fall evening auction.Graph tracks the total sales of Impressionist and Contemporary art work from 1987-2004 projections.(Source by Sotheby's)(pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); ART DEALERS (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); RIOTS (55%) Art; Auctions; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Art

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (85%); SOTHEBY'S (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Sotheby's; Christie's

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (85%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%)

PERSON: Carol Vogel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (73%); ALABAMA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



42 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 2; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Before Applying, Check Out the Blogs

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN

 BODY:
GARY FELDMAN was vice president of strategic planning at 141 Worldwide, a Manhattan marketing and advertising agency, when he received an e-mail message last spring from HotJobs.com listing opportunities that might be of interest to him. Although he rarely gave such notices a second glance, he said, a position as director in the New York office of the marketing research and consulting firm Cheskin caught his eye. He followed a link to the company's Web log, or blog, and read the job description.
 ''It wasn't typical, it was cool,'' Mr. Feldman said. ''It sounded like the person who wrote it really knew what the job was and understood the business. It was written by someone you would want to talk to.'' 
 The blog entries of others at Cheskin intrigued him. ''I got the sense this was a company where the employees really enjoyed their work,'' said Mr. Feldman, who was hired in June. ''If I had not read the blog I doubt I would have applied.'' 
 Five years ago, few people had heard of blogs -- online journals that are commonly used to chronicle the lives and opinions of their authors. Now, more than two million Americans are blogging, according to a study by the Pew Internet and American Life Project -- and blogging is spreading in the job market, said hiring managers and experts who study blogging. 
 There is no conclusive data on the spread of blogs to the job market, largely because they are difficult to track, said Michael Gartenberg, a vice president and research director at JupiterResearch in New York who covers blogs. But based on anecdotal information, he said, people are using blogs on both sides of the job search process.
 ''It's a trend on the rise right now,'' Mr. Gartenberg said, ''especially for employers, who get a much better sense of a person this way. Resumes and interviews are a very scripted process; read someone's Web log and you get a good sense of that person's thinking and perspectives.''
 Alexander C. Halavais, a professor in the School of Informatics at the State University of New York at Buffalo who studies blogs, also expects blogs to play a larger role in the job market. ''Right now,'' Professor Halavais said, ''recruiting this way is invisible, it's not institutional yet. But I would be surprised if, fairly soon, we didn't see blogs become a much bigger part of job searching and recruiting,''
 Job seekers use blogs to establish a strong online presence, display their skills and advertise their availability. For many just out of college, the blog is an essential networking tool because it is common for bloggers to link back and forth to others with recent posts. Corporate recruiters, in turn, use blogs to draw in qualified candidates, and they search for potential hires by reading bloggers who write about topics relevant to a particular industry. 
 A driving factor behind job market blogging is the search engine Google, said Elizabeth Lawley, associate professor of information technology at the Rochester Institute of Technology. ''If you are thinking of interviewing someone, it's almost standard now to Google them online and see what you find,'' Ms. Lawley said. ''If that person has a blog, it's usually the first thing that comes up.''
 Official corporate blogs are still rare, said John Palfrey, executive director of the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at the Harvard Law School, largely because ''corporate marketing and branding is often an exercise in hypercontrol of a message, and that doesn't work well in a blogging context.''
 Some businesses do allow their employees to blog individually, however, provided they make it clear that they are operating independently of the company.
 About 50 of 600 employees blog at ThoughtWorks, a Chicago-based company that builds business software systems, and any industry-related topic -- other than the core intellectual property of clients -- is fair game. Its employee blogs have attracted a dedicated readership -- and some job applicants. ''It's a little like a prescreening,'' said Roy Singham, the company's chief executive. ''We're looking for needles in haystacks, and the blog is like a massive magnet.''
 Carl Ververs became one of those needles when a friend suggested that he look at the ThoughtWorks Web site, and Mr. Ververs came upon the blog of the company's chief scientist, Martin Fowler. ''I started reading Martin's blog and saw a posting where he admitted he didn't know what was going on with something related to database programming,'' Mr. Ververs said. ''He wrote that he was always looking to better himself and learn new things and so questioned his previous assumptions. I thought, 'If this is the chief scientist's attitude, I want to work there.' Reading his blog was a critical turning point for me.'' Mr. Ververs was hired as a software integration architect in July.
 At Microsoft, several hundred employees blog using a portal hosted by Microsoft Communities. The company has no official blog or blogging policy, but the unofficial practice has been a boon to the company's recruiters.
 ''I have great candidates in process that have resulted from blogging,'' wrote Heather Hamilton, a senior marketing recruiter at the company, who posted her note in May on Heather's Marketing at Microsoft Blog. ''Personally I think blogging is going to change the way companies recruit.'' 
 Gretchen Ledgard, a recruiter for technical jobs at Microsoft and the creator, with Zoe Goldring, of the Technical Careers @ Microsoft blog, called job candidates' entries in her blog ''living resumes.'' Ms. Ledgard said she also kept a file of interesting bloggers and read them regularly, expecting that some will become job candidates. 
 For unemployed job seekers, there is little risk in announcing a return to the job market through a blog. But for those currently working but searching for a new job, there are risks. ''The rule of thumb is, if you don't want anyone at the company to know you're looking, don't post it on your blog,'' Professor Halavais said. ''It's one of the biggest mistakes employed job seekers make.''
 Job seekers who prefer to look at others' postings can find blogs relevant to them using search engines, or Web sites like Bloglines.com.
 Another approach is to simply blog intelligently about your work or industry, Professor Halavais said. ''Those looking to hire will notice you through your blog as a passive candidate, and that's often a much better way to find a job.'' 
 That is the approach taken by Hugh MacLeod, creative director at Alcazar, an advertising agency in Newcastle, England. Mr. MacLeod's blog, gapingvoid.com, contains his cartoon work and blogs about the advertising industry and other topics.
 ''The blog has started lots of conversations about jobs,'' Mr. MacLeod said. ''It's like flypaper, and now I'm in the midst of one of these conversations with a large advertising firm in Manhattan. They saw my site and blog and contacted me.''
 He added: ''That's the advantage of blogging -- if you do it well and have interesting things to say, people pay attention.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gary Feldman, foreground, a strategic director at Cheskin, and Adrien Lopez Lanusse, a co-worker, at the company's Manhattan office. Mr. Feldman found his job at Cheskin, a research and consulting firm, through the company's Web log. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. 5)Drawing (Illustration by Mike Klein)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); JOB DESCRIPTIONS (75%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); TRENDS (70%); WRITERS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%) Labor; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Hiring and Promotion; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: OGILVYACTION (58%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%)

PERSON: Eilene Zimmerman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



43 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; OFFICE SPACE: THE BOSS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: The Road to Better Carpeting

BYLINE: By MATTHEW C. BLANK; As told to Eve Tahmincioglu.

 BODY:
ONE of my first jobs, when I was about 16, was at a chain of department stores in Queens called Gertz. I lived in Jamaica, Queens, where the flagship store was. 
 Here I am, this shy kid, and on my first day they sent me to the lingerie department to do inventory. For a week, I counted bras and garter straps. 
 The second week, the manager says: ''O.K., Blank, you're in carpets today.'' So I went over, worked hard, climbing on shelves, pulling down rugs off the shelves and counting rolls.
 I was covered in dust at the end of the day, and when the manager sees me, he says, ''Where were you all day?'' I told him, and he said I should have been in carpets, not rugs. I had spent the entire day in the rug department. I didn't know the difference. The people in the rug department thought they were getting an inventory guy, so they didn't question it. 
 Well, the manager fired me. That was the only time in my life I was fired from a job.
 It was a lesson for me. I realized then that work is not a meritocracy.
 I can remember a summer job I had at 17, in the mailroom at Philip Morris in Manhattan. I'd go from floor to floor, and while I was walking around, one thing that stuck in my mind was how, at the end of the corridor where the executive offices were, the carpeting got nicer and the lighting got nicer. I said, ''Gee, that's probably where you want to be.''
 I went to the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business and got a degree in economics. At the time, I regretted doing that because everyone else was partying while I was studying business. But over the years, it has served me well. 
 I tried to get a job at a network out of college because I always loved TV, but I couldn't get a job. I watched a lot of TV growing up, probably more than I should have. I was addicted to ''Superman.''
 I was devastated when George Reeves died. I was 10 years old, and he apparently committed suicide. I thought, ''How could Superman commit suicide?'' That's when I realized that was just television.
 In the first few years after I went to work for HBO, I probably visited 30 or more states. I was a marketing manager, trying to sell small cable systems on launching HBO. 
 I had never been out of the Northeast. It taught me that there was a lot to learn outside the great boroughs of Queens and Manhattan.
 The first cable station I ever went to was in Lewistown, Pa., in 1976. I used to hate public speaking, but I had to get up front at a meeting of all the town fathers at the Elks Club. I was very nervous.
 And then the fire horns went off and every male in the room walked out because they were all volunteer firemen. So I was left with all their wives. They were all concerned about us bringing R-rated movies on TV to a little town.
 I gave them a speech on how this is a revolution in TV and they'll be among the first to experience it. It worked.
 I had 500 guests ringside the night Mike Tyson bit Evander Holyfield's ear. There were politicians there, and Madonna, Shaq, John Kennedy Jr., Jack Nicholson. I was C.E.O. of Showtime, it was the biggest sporting event ever, and Tyson caused a near riot. There were shots fired in the casino. I had guests going under the tables.
 We had to think fast, and got a bunch of key people together to decide how to handle the press, the guests and the financial fallout. You don't learn how to handle that in business school. 
 One thing that was risky for me was approving putting ''Queer as Folk'' on the air three years ago. I went home that weekend when the show premiered and didn't sleep too well.
 But we got no calls. We got tremendous support, and the show is now one of our biggest hits.

MATTHEW C. BLANK
Chairman and chief executive of Showtime Networks

DATE OF BIRTH: July 10, 1950
FAVORITE MOVIE: ''Close Encounters of the Third Kind''
LAST VACATION DESTINATION: St. Petersburg, Russia
LAST BOOK READ: ''Wake Up, Sir!'' by Jonathan Ames
NUMBER OF TELEVISIONS AT HOME: Six; the biggest has a 50-inch screen;


GRAPHIC: Photo: MATTHEW C. BLANK (Photo by Greg Heisler) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); LINGERIE (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (68%); CABLE TELEVISION (66%); SUICIDE (60%) Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: Showtime Networks Inc

PERSON: Matthew C Blank

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



44 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2366 words

HEADLINE: Your Broker as Your Friend, or Maybe Not

BYLINE: By NADINE BROZAN

 BODY:
THEY may come together for what seems like a straightforward business transaction -- the sale or purchase of a home -- but the relationship between broker and client can be an emotional minefield, ripe for love or hate, admiration or scorn, friendship or hostility. 
 If nothing else, it is a highly personal connection. A broker, after all, probably knows as much about the client as any therapist, lawyer, accountant or even spouse.
 Brokers know what their clients earn and what they're worth -- they have to, in order to figure out which co-ops make sense for them. They may know if they're planning to leave their jobs, or their spouses. ''People who are planning to get divorced may not yet have told their friends or their children but need an appraisal before dividing the assets,'' said Daniela Kunen, a managing director of Douglas Elliman. ''You hear very personal information.'' 
 Whatever it is, the connection is rarely tepid. Frederick W. Peters, president of Warburg Realty Partnership, said that he tells novice agents that they are in a business that fosters short-term intimacy. ''You are immediately plunged into a close relationship with a buyer or seller and then when the transaction is consummated, it is over, unless you choose otherwise.'' he said. 
 Many people do choose otherwise, having planted the seeds of enduring friendship in the collaboration to buy or sell a residence, or, if they live in the same community and run into one another in the supermarket, an ongoing acquaintanceship. 
 ''You may be the first person in town they know,'' said Roberta Baldwin, an associate broker with Re/Max Village Square in Upper Montclair, N.J., who gives a New Year's party with a magician and a Labor Day barbecue for her clients and their children. ''You become the person they rely on when they need the name of a contractor or doctor.'' 
 But brokers offer more than practical tips. ''For every person or couple who buys for the first time and moves through the process without a care in the world, there are 10 who bring preconceived notions about what they should be buying, what their parents and relatives think, fears they have about their children and safety, money issues and worry about the economy,'' Ms. Baldwin said. 
 Strong bonds in individual cases notwithstanding, as a group brokers and clients do not hold one another in particularly high esteem.
 Preliminary findings of an online survey of attitudes of brokers and buyers who have bought properties in Manhattan in the last three years show that 78 percent of the 51 brokers who responded and 69 percent of 152 buyers and sellers ''strongly or somewhat strongly'' agreed with the premise, ''Most people don't trust real estate brokers or expect much from them.'' The survey was commissioned by Braddock & Purcell, a real estate consultant that brings brokers and clients together, and carried out by Penn Schoen & Berland Associates, the market research firm. 
 ''You can develop a close relationship with your broker, but it is in the context of an industry for which people do not have a high opinion,'' said Paul F. Purcell, a partner in the firm. 
 John Podesta, national sales manager for Osh Kosh B'Gosh, has enough broker horror stories to keep him talking through many a dinner party. 
 The broker who helped him buy his first Manhattan apartment on 61st Street and Amsterdam Avenue, for example, spent more time on the phone dealing with a failing romance than she did with him during scouting expeditions. ''I did a lot of things that were her job, like looking for apartments in the paper,'' Mr. Podesta said.
 To make it up to him, ''she took me to an expensive restaurant, and then it turned out it didn't take credit cards and she didn't have cash,'' he said. ''She never paid me back.'' Things got worse. He described the broker for his next apartment on West 26th Street as a ''deceitful liar who misrepresented what was going to be done to the building and the character of the developer.''
 ''The lobby renovation never looked the way it was supposed to,'' he said, ''and neither the penthouse nor the rooftop garden were ever built.'' When he put that apartment on the market, he had a broker who arrived late for an open house. ''People were already there when he came riding up on his bicycle with headphones on and looking disheveled,'' he said.
 The next stop: Down Under the Manhattan Bridge Overpass, the trendy Brooklyn neighborhood known as Dumbo. He bought an apartment there by directly responding to a listing rather than using a broker. But he wasn't impressed, either, by the broker who was representing the seller. ''I never heard from the seller's broker, but she kept calling her lawyer to find out when the commission was coming,'' he said. 
 Now he lives at Madison Avenue and 63rd Street, where, he said, ''I had a good, diligent broker who was determined to get the deal done and who pushed it.'' 
 Among the qualities considered essential for good brokers are: discretion; trustworthiness; sensitivity; diplomacy; serious knowledge about neighborhoods, buildings, boards, management, and potential pitfalls; an ability to listen; and strong intuitive instincts. 
 Intuition is particularly prized. ''There is a creative component to this, fitting a round peg into a square hole,'' said Rosette Arons, a vice president for Stribling & Associates. ''The creative process comes in when you hear them say, 'I need a three-bedroom with such and such,' and that is not at all what they want. I listen to what they want, even when they may not know what that is, and I can tease it out of them.'' 
 Clearly that was the case with Lisa Simonsen, a vice president for the Corcoran Group, and Serita Winthrop, who sold her seven-room apartment on East 79th Street and bought a loft with soaring ceilings at the renowned Hotel des Artistes on West 67th Street in June. 
 Ms. Simonsen, an occasional fitness trainer, had been exercising with Ms. Winthrop, who has four grown children, and, she said, she sensed her student subconsciously harbored a yen for a new place.
 ''I had told her I couldn't imagine ever moving,'' Ms. Winthrop said. ''Then, after the second week of working out, I suddenly said, 'I want to move.' I wanted a smaller space, and with my 60th birthday coming up, it was time to simplify. She took a low key approach, and said, 'We can always look without buying.' ''
 But when they saw the duplex in the Hotel des Artistes, ''I sat down on a banquette and said, 'It looks like a stage set and makes me feel as if I were in the theater,' '' she said. ''It is entirely different from anything I have ever lived in. I began to figure out about sofa beds to accommodate close friends or children and grandchildren.'' 
 She moved in July but continues to get together with Ms. Simonsen. ''We are definitely friends,'' she said as they sipped tea together the other day. ''We have introduced each other to the people in our lives.'' 
 Timothy Melzer, a 27-year-old vice president for Douglas Elliman, prides himself on turning customers into friends. ''By the time it is over, almost all of them call to say they miss talking,'' he said.
 One of those clients, Dr. Anthony W. Cincotta, was called upon to show an unusual degree of trust when he decided to buy a penthouse at Morton Square, the town house, condo and rental complex at Morton and West Streets, about 18 months ago. ''It is hard to trust anyone in New York, and I am one of those types who asks people to take off their shoes before walking on my carpet,'' he said. 
 Dr. Cincotta, a neuropsychiatrist and family physician at Catholic Community Services in Newark, had been looking for a penthouse with outdoor space, when Mr. Melzer proposed the Morton Square penthouse. ''I froze when he told me about it and said, 'This is $1 million more than I wanted to spend,' '' he recalled. ''He kept arguing with me and said, 'This is where you have to be, this is where you will make money.' I gave in.''
 After Dr. Cincotta agreed to buy it, Mr. Melzer went to great lengths to cement the deal. ''The developer was demanding a check for more than 10 percent, $191,500, an hour after it came on the market, so he needed his checkbook, which was in Manhattan,'' he said. ''I had to drive to Newark, get his keys, drive to Manhattan, go to his apartment, get the checkbook, drive to the sponsor's office, pick up the contract, drive back to New Jersey, get the contract signed and the check written. By the time I got back to the sponsor's office, they had gotten another offer, but fortunately it came from someone who didn't have their checkbook.'' 
 The property, which closed on Sept. 23, has appreciated more than $1 million since the initial listing, and Dr. Cincotta will rent it out, he hopes, for $19,000 a month, Mr. Melzer said, and eventually live in it. 
 The two have been friends since. ''Once you develop trust and you talk on the phone everyday, the walls start coming down,'' Mr. Melzer said. 
 Patricia Whitehead, an associate broker with the Corcoran Group, considers herself something of a surrogate mother to Jennifer Eggers, an advertising copywriter from Eugene, Ore., who is in her 20's and just bought her first apartment in the city. The two met at an open house. ''I could see she was taking notes,'' Ms. Whitehead said. ''I called her the next day and said, 'Why don't you let me help you get through the maze?' ''
 When Ms. Eggers's parents came to town from their home San Ramon, Calif., ''I bonded with them and they decided that if I liked an apartment we found, that would be good enough for them and they wouldn't have to come back,'' Ms. Whitehead said. Two weeks later, they found the apartment, a loft-style co-op with an 18-foot ceiling and spiral staircase on East 88th Street. 
 Navigating the co-op approvals process was intimidating, Ms. Eggers said, ''but I did feel that Patti was looking out for me every step of the way.'' And beyond. Ms. Whitehead noticed that the seller's broker was interested in Ms. Eggers and after the closing, urged him to call her. ''So far they haven't gone out, but I keep my antennas open,'' Ms. Whitehead said. 
 There are differences between being the broker for a buyer, whose primary goal is to find a home, and the seller, whose goal it to reap the highest possible profit. 
 There are also distinctions between city and suburban real estate that can affect the interaction. For one thing, there is a Multiple Listing Service that prevails in the suburbs but has not gained acceptance in the city.
 ''In the suburbs, any agent can show you any property and we discourage exclusives,'' said David Firnhaber, branch manager for the Houlihan Lawrence office in Chappaqua, N.Y. ''So we tend to work with people for a long time, showing them as many things as they could possibly want. It is more intimate because you are not meeting someone in the lobby of an apartment or taking a limo or taxis, but you spend a lot of time in the agent's car. So I think there is a stronger bond.'' 
 Not so, says Michele Kleier, president of Gumley Haft Kleier, who started in the business when she was pregnant with her second child and met her first clients in the sandbox. ''I always dealt with friends, and clients who were not friends became friends,'' she said. ''I feel I look out for people more than strangers will.''
 Though she does not advocate using a broker simply because he or she is a friend, she does expect that her friends will call on her when they are in the market. ''I am the broker for most of my friends,'' she said. ''If they don't feel I am a good enough broker to be their broker, then they are not a friend.''
 Mr. Purcell, whose company helps buyers find brokers who will best suit them, doesn't think that's the right approach. He argues that the wall between professional and personal should be maintained. ''You are not friends, you are a professional service provider,'' he said. ''When you are friends, the client can believe they are entitled to special considerations they would not get in an entirely professional relationship, such as commission concessions.''
 Of course, in today's intense market, properties move so quickly that the concept of friendship may be moot. ''You might meet a buyer once at an open house and they make an offer,'' said Carolyn Meenan, an associate with Bryce Rea Associates in Little Neck, Queens. ''You don't have time to develop relationships.''

How to Choose a Broker Wisely

HERE are some dos and don'ts for choosing the right sales agent, gleaned from conversations with a cross section of brokers in the city and suburbs:
 *Educate yourself about the market. You can do that by going online to see properties similar to what you may buy or sell. 
 *Don't act hastily. That means not picking a broker just because he or she is attached to a newspaper advertisement you answered or is a cousin's best friend. ''People put more thought into picking a caterer than they do a broker, and all brokers are not created equal,'' said Kathy Braddock, a partner in Braddock & Purcell, a company that helps match clients and brokers. 
 *Interview several candidates. Ask them how many successful transactions they have had, and try to determine their familiarity with the neighborhood and their knowledge about properties, addresses, buildings, prices and comparable sales. 
 *Inquire about services. A good broker will know about schools, distance to transportation, supermarkets and dry cleaners, as well as zoning laws and tax bases. This is important for those searching in the suburbs.
 *Ask about marketing. If you are the seller, you'll want to know how the broker will go about pricing the apartment or house and advertise the property.
 *Consider personalities. Will you be able to spend considerable amounts of time together? Does the agent communicate well and listen to your needs? Will your schedules jibe? Will he or she be accommodating if you can look or meet only during evenings or weekends or holidays? 
 *Know when to end a relationship. It's important to be honest. Don't say, ''I'm taking my house off the market,'' if that's not the case. And deliver the news face to face, not via e-mail. NADINE BROZAN


GRAPHIC: Photos: SURROGATE MOTHER -- Jennifer Eggers (left) in her new co-op. She says her broker, Patricia Whitehead, gently guided her through the buying process. (Photographs by Diane Bondareff for The New York Times)
A LITTLE HELP -- Lisa Simonsen (left) worked with Serita Winthrop to find a loft apartment in June at the Hotel des Artistes on the Upper West Side. They first met while working out. (Photo by Nina Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 9)
 A Success -- While a new survey shows that even brokers believe clients don't trust them, there are many cases of broker-client friendship, forged in the intense shared experience. Dr. Anthony W. Cincotta, left, who now owns the penthouse at Morton Square, became friends with Timothy Meltzer of Douglas Elliman, his broker, who had gone to great lengths to cement the deal. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%) Housing; Brokers and Brokerage Firms; Public Opinion

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (56%)

PERSON: Nadine Brozan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



45 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 4; Travel Desk; TRAVEL ADVISORY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Deals and Discounts

BYLINE: By JOSEPH SIANO

 BODY:

ALL SHAPES AND SIZES -- The Bulfinch Hotel, which opened last month in the Bulfinch Triangle-North Station neighborhood of Boston, across from the Fleet Center, occupies a triangle-shaped building. This makes for a variety of floor plans in its 80 rooms and junior suites, including the rooms in the nose of the building. Through March, introductory rates are $169 a night for a room and $199 for a suite, plus tax. Information: (617) 624-0202.

BREAKING EVEN -- The 289-room Millennium Maxwell House in Nashville will provide a $100 credit good for food and drinks at the hotel's restaurant and sports bar with each night's stay through Dec. 30. The room rates for this offer start at $100 a night, with tax extra. There are blacked-out dates. The hotel (at an earlier incarnation of the establishment, Theodore Roosevelt, as legend has it, complimented the coffee, and made advertising history) is in the Metro Center Business Park, near downtown. Information: (615) 259-4343 or go to www.millenniumhotels.com.

AMTRAK TO FLORIDA -- To help boost Florida's economy after recent hurricane damage, Amtrak is trying to encourage travel there by taking 20 percent off fares on its Silver Service (three routes between New York and Miami) and Auto Train for trips through Oct. 28. Tickets must be bought by Oct. 15, and at least three days before departure. Cite promotion code V671 when reserving at (800) 872-7245 or at www.amtrak.com.

CHAD-FREE OFFER -- To help create happier recollections of Florida and voting, the Clinton Hotel, an 88-room property on Washington Avenue in the South Beach neighborhood of Miami, is offering a deal to guests who show a voter-registration card. Do so between now and Nov. 2, Election Day, and get a fourth night free with three paid nights. Rates start at $99 a night, plus tax; good Monday to Thursday nights. The deal includes a bottle of wine, a two-hour boat tour and nightclub passes. You must book this offer online at www.clintonsouthbeach.com. Information: (305) 938-4040.

CENTENNIAL SPECIAL -- The 135-room Washington Jefferson Hotel, at 318 West 51st Street, between Eighth and Ninth Avenues in Manhattan, has refurbished itself in time for its 100th birthday, and through the end of this month, rates start at $179 a night, plus tax (regularly $199 and up). Rooms have free high-speed Internet access and limestone bathrooms. Amenities include a fitness center and room service. Information: (888) 567-7550 or go to www.wjhotel.com.

FLEXIBLE SKI PASSES -- Telluride, in the Colorado Rockies, is selling two passes this winter that give skiers more choices in setting their schedules. The first is a transferable lift ticket. For $275, you get five single-day lift tickets that can be shared with others, allowing you to skip a day without wasting the price of a day's skiing. The second is an adult lesson pass for $149 that allows unlimited instruction in skiing or snowboarding, subject to blackout dates. Information: (970) 728-7517 or www.tellurideskiresort.com. JOSEPH SIANO


GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); HOTEL AMENITIES (89%); SKIING (88%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TROPICAL STORMS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); HURRICANES (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%); INTERNET & WWW (60%) Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (55%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (55%)

PERSON: Joseph Siano

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



46 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 5; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Fast Growth, But Wall St. Lags Behind

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
IF there was any doubt about the recovery of New York's economy from the deep doldrums caused by 9/11 and the collapse of the financial markets, it has disappeared in the last few months. The city has actually outpaced the nation in job growth, something that almost never happens. But other indicators, from Wall Street profits to the inflation rate, may hint at trouble ahead.
 ''Private sector job growth for New York City is ahead of the national rate,'' said Barbara Byrne Denham, an economist at the real estate firm Jones Lang LaSalle who writes a monthly newsletter about the city economy. ''There is a lot of good news in the data. Almost every industry is adding jobs, and almost no industry is losing jobs.'' 
 Yet several indicators -- including the dip in Wall Street profits, inflation as measured by the Consumer Price Index at an annual rate of 3.3 percent and an unemployment rate that has fallen but is still high at 6.7 percent -- have led some economists to be cautious about the breadth and robustness of the recovery. 
 ''We are encouraged by the strength of the city's economy in the first half of the year,'' said Adam M. Blumenthal, first deputy comptroller, speaking recently as the comptroller issued a less-than-rosy assessment of the city's second-quarter economic performance. ''But the signs are not unalloyed positives when you look into the future.''
 Although job growth has been robust, much of the tourism industry has rebounded to pre-9/11 levels, real estate has continued its upward surge and incomes are still rising, there are worrying signs on the horizon. 
 Surging profit growth in the first quarter on Wall Street, New York's dominant industry, fizzled in the second quarter, shrinking by more than 60 percent. Unlike virtually every other sector, finance has not added jobs, which is particularly troubling, Mr. Blumenthal said, because every 1,000 jobs in finance support 3,000 jobs in other sectors, from retail to hospitality to real estate. 
 ''I don't think there is any evidence that this is a robust and diversified recovery,'' Mr. Blumenthal said. 
 Overall job growth, a good indicator of economic health, has been steady and relatively strong in New York City and even stronger in much of the region. This has led some economists to conclude that New York has not only emerged from its long recession but is also rebounding modestly -- notwithstanding shrinking Wall Street profits and other negatives.
 Jason Bram, an economist who tracks the local economy at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said that the city's current job growth was both unusual and a good sign that the city is on the right track. 
 ''If you look historically back 20 to 30 years, you'll find over time typically New York City, because it is such an established, mature economy, has employment growth a point or so below the nation,'' Mr. Bram said. ''Now job growth is pretty much on par with the nation. What that suggests is that we are doing better than expected. Over the past few months, national growth has been relatively weak, but New York City has done relatively well.'' 
 The regional economy is also doing well, he said, with some areas, like New Jersey, outpacing the rest in job growth. 
 ''Northern New Jersey is over all doing better than New York City, and Jersey City jobs are up almost 3 percent from a year ago,'' far exceeding the city rate of a 1.2 percent job growth over the same period, Mr. Bram said. 
 Central New Jersey's job count is up 2.4 percent, he said, and the far northern New York suburbs, including Dutchess County in the Hudson Valley, has seen job growth close to 2 percent over the last year. Long Island is keeping pace with the city's job growth, Mr. Bram said. 
 The lack of job growth in finance is worrisome, he said, but can be viewed as a positive sign that the city's fortunes are not entirely dependent on Wall Street. 
 ''The city is coming back without any growth in Wall Street jobs,'' Mr. Bram said. ''That is very unusual. If you look at the glass as half full, we can say that the city economy has diversified because we usually need Wall Street to carry us; we don't have Wall Street in terms of jobs right now, and we are still growing. On the other hand, maybe this growth won't be sustainable because we have never had rip-roaring expansion without Wall Street.''
 Mr. Blumenthal said that Wall Street would remain the driving force of the city economy, and said lack of growth there would limit the expansion of jobs in other sectors that depend on it, like legal and office services, publishing and hospitality. 
 ''Nothing is going to replace financial services as driver,'' Mr. Blumenthal said. ''It flickers though the whole economy.''
 Since 9/11, many companies have tried to move staff members outside Lower Manhattan to make their businesses less vulnerable to an attack. That has had tough consequences for Lower Manhattan, where rents remain $20 a square foot lower than in the rest of the city. 
 But major job growth like the 1990's tech boom is most likely to come only with efforts to attract a new industry to replace the thousands of jobs that vanished when the dot.com bubble burst. A biotechnology sector, drawing on the skills of the many medical centers in New York, is one possible source of jobs, Mr. Blumenthal said. 
 ''In the short run, we are tied to Wall Street,'' he said. ''Diversity in the economic base in the long run is the best way to counter what is ultimately going to be the effort by some firms to diversify jobs outside of downtown and the city.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INFLATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRENDS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); STATISTICS (76%); BONDS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); TOURISM (65%) Labor; Economic Conditions and Trends; Hiring and Promotion; Unemployment; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); JONES LANG LASALLE INC (57%)

TICKER: JLL (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (57%)

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



47 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Michelle Forrest, Alastair Cairns

 BODY:
Michelle Rachael Forrest and Alastair John Cairns were married yesterday evening in New York. The Rev. Dr. Robert G. Stephanopoulos performed the ceremony at the Greek Orthodox Archdiocesan Cathedral of the Holy Trinity. 
 The bride and bridegroom, both 32, work in New York at McKinsey & Company, the management consulting firm. She is a manager of health-care projects, and he is a partner developing strategies for financial institutions.
 The bride graduated from Stanford University and received a master's degree in science from Oxford. She also received a master's in public health from Johns Hopkins and a law degree from Columbia. She is the daughter of Patricia and Michael Forrest of New York. Her father retired as the owner of Michael Forrest Inc., a fur manufacturer and retailer in New York. Her mother, who is also retired, was his design director.
 The bridegroom graduated from Queens University in Kingston, Ontario, and received a master's degree in economics from the University of Chicago. He is a son of Jo Cairns and Malcolm Cairns, both of Ottawa, and a stepson of Judy Basinger-Cairns and of Dr. John Kaitell. The bridegroom's mother retired as a chemistry and biology teacher at Nepean High School in Ottawa. His father is a director of business research for the Canadian Pacific Railway there. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (75%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (72%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (65%); LEATHER TANNING & FINISHING (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%)

TICKER: CP (TSX) (54%); CP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (54%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



48 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Postcards From the Squalls

BYLINE: By Connie May Fowler. 
Connie May Fowler, writer-in-residence at Rollins College, is the author of the forthcoming novel ''The Problem With Murmur Lee.''

DATELINE: Winter Park, Fla. 

 BODY:
I live two lives, one in north Florida and one in central Florida; in two homes with friends from two regions who, until now, would barely admit they shared the same state. 
 I teach amid citrus groves, Disney-inspired sprawl, Interstate 4 traffic and bass-rich lakes. Central Floridians here who invoke the word ''home'' often mean where they came from: New York, Boston, Cleveland, places where time is measured by the orderly passage of four distinct seasons. In my other life on the Panhandle at Alligator Point, I write novels in a coastal shack that was built by the Army in 1943, and look out at the Gulf of Mexico and Alligator Bay. Sand dunes, sea oats and rattlesnakes flourish on the faint rise of sand. I've gone six days and not seen anyone but the mail lady. Fifth-generation Floridians are the norm. 
 On Aug. 13 while I was alone in my sea shanty, Florida experienced a milestone. Not since 1906 had two tropical systems hit the same state within 24 hours. As Tropical Storm Bonnie barreled ashore, I monitored the Weather Channel to divine Hurricane Charley's path. Friends urged me to head back to Winter Park where, they said, I'd be safe. As I watched the radar images of Charley, Bonnie blew out my kitchen window.
 For me, that was the beginning of feeling under siege, of gaining a new understanding of nature's wrath, of tossing off half-frantic jokes that the next storm would be named Job and our new motto was ''Welcome to Florida, Land of Natural and Political Disasters.'' 
 By now, Floridians know the facts by heart. Between Aug. 13 and Sept. 24, in a season that doesn't end until Dec. 1, we took direct hits by five tropical systems, four of them major hurricanes. We know the numbers and we're living the horror, but we can't grasp the reasons. 
 We've lived for weeks without electricity in boarded-up houses in 90-degree heat. We've driven through the night in search of gasoline. We've become refugees, evacuating to inland towns previously perceived as safe ports. We've gone to grocery stores only to find empty shelves. We've set out from our homes and suddenly halted, unsure of where we were because all the familiar markers -- mainly ancient oaks -- were gone, our abundant landscape blown bare. We've experienced money rationing as harried bank tellers warned that no one knew when more cash would arrive.
 We've endured 72-hour curfews. We've been told to replenish our hurricane supplies because the unthinkable was happening -- another strike by another storm -- but we couldn't get to the stores because our streets were impassable. We've been told we can't go home. Strangers with running water have offered their showers to those without. Firefighters and neighbors cut swaths through towering walls of debris to free people trapped inside their houses. Many of us have lost our homes; some of us have lost loved ones. 
 I've huddled in my hallway in Winter Park because hurricane-spawned tornadoes were nearby, while at that exact moment my house 200 miles to the north was being hammered by the same storm. 
 At Rollins College where I teach, our on-campus students have been evacuated from their dorms three times within a month. The college has provided shelter, safety and meals without electricity, even boiling water to drink. Each time, our new president Lewis Duncan, who had arrived from Dartmouth 13 days before the first storm, and his family dragged their sleeping bags into the shelter. 
 We are all shell-shocked. The semester that began late thanks to Charley has been blown to smithereens by subsequent storms and class cancellations. Imagine being repeatedly evacuated to Bush Science Center -- built to withstand nuclear attack -- without knowing when you will be allowed to leave and if there will be anything to go home to. Steve Neilson, dean of student affairs, has warned that the students are experiencing something akin to post-traumatic stress syndrome. The morning after Hurricane Charley, staff members -- some of whom had lost their homes -- made their way through dangerous streets to the campus to begin pulling us back to what we had so thoroughly lost: a sense of normalcy. 
 When it was announced that the college would be closed for the second time in three weeks because of an impending strike by Hurricane Frances, I sent my students an e-mail message, coaching them to step into their writers' skin: ''Watch everything. Remember everything. Write it all down. You are the recorders of our time.'' 
 Then came two more storms, Ivan and Jeanne, but I didn't send any messages. I'd lost the ability to comfort or lead. And in the aftermath of our fourth hurricane, I decided I didn't know how to teach. 
 Two days after Jeanne swept through last week, I walked into the classroom, and to my surprise a cheer broke out. My students weren't lauding me but the possibility that life might return to normal. I looked at them and thought, we can't pretend we are the same class that first gathered a month ago. 
 ''I have a suggestion,'' I said. ''What if we pretend that today is the first day of the semester? Any work you've done that is solid, you'll get credit for. Any work that is below our standards? We'll wipe the slate clean and start over. '' 
 My offer was met with silence. Finally, someone asked, ''Really?'' 
 ''Really.'' The class, save for one student, erupted into a spontaneous celebration. 
 ''Is this not O.K. for you?'' I asked. ''No, no,'' the student said. ''It's just -- this is the kindest thing anyone has ever offered me.''
 Several of us blinked back tears. And then we moved on.
 The geographic, sociological, political and economic schisms that so often define Florida have lost some of their punch this hurricane season. The regional squabbling and name-calling seem downright absurd. 
 Frankly, I'm proud of us. We've behaved patiently, exhibiting generosity to both neighbors and strangers. We've accepted what nature has wrought with quiet determination and, yes, reasonable disbelief. We're not perfect; price-gougers walk among us. But today folks in Punta Gorda to the west, Stuart to the east and Pensacola to the north grieve with one voice. We feel embattled, cursed, ravaged. Yet, still, we know we'll return to normal. It won't be the same normal that existed before Aug. 13. It will be better. Perhaps this is simply my attempt to impose meaning on chaos, but I believe that because of our common experience with this hurricane season from hell, Floridians from tip to stern are finally thinking of themselves as one people and this wild land as home.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jillian Tamaki) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); WEATHER (89%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (75%); TROPICAL STORMS (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); RADAR SYSTEMS (67%); POWER FAILURES (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



49 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Friends, Americans, Countrymen

BYLINE: By Stephen Greenblatt. 
Stephen Greenblatt, a professor of humanities at Harvard, is the author of ''Will in the World: How Shakespeare Became Shakespeare.''

 BODY:
Two bitter rivals stand up to address an immense, anonymous crowd. The rules have been set in advance: they will speak from the same platform; they will not address each other directly; they will limit their discourse to certain set topics. The stakes are immensely high: no less than the fate of the nation and of the whole world. 
 Sound familiar? The scene is from Shakespeare's ''Julius Caesar,'' written and first performed more than 400 years ago as the opening play in the newly built Globe Theater. Brutus and Antony stand over the corpse of the assassinated Caesar. Nothing will bring Caesar back. The question is the future course of the damaged republic. 
 It is worth noting that Shakespeare lived in a monarchy, not a republic. Elizabethan society had little or nothing comparable to what observers of modern democratic societies call the public sphere -- the shared space where competing views on politics, economics, foreign policy and moral values are aired. (Parliamentary debates were closed to the public, and transcripts were strictly prohibited.) 
 This makes it all the more striking that Shakespeare depicts the world's destiny as determined by the rhetorical performances of two men standing up at a pulpit and speaking out to an agitated populace that demands a public reckoning: ''We will be satisfied! Let us be satisfied!'' 
 The crowd wants to know why Caesar has been murdered. The honorable, principled Brutus addresses himself to the wisdom of his listeners. Assuming that his audience is capable of assessing and rationally judging his actions, he lays out a complex and seemingly contradictory argument: ''As Caesar loved me, I weep for him. As he was fortunate, I rejoice at it. As he was valiant, I honour him. But as he was ambitious, I slew him. There is tears for his love, joy for his fortune, honour for his valour, and death for his ambition.''
 In the heat of the moment this is a lot for anyone to process: how could Brutus have shifted from friend to foe? Are his deeds the mark of inconsistency or thoughtfulness? How could he be for and against the same man? How is it possible to keep in focus the noble principle for which he says he has acted?
 Antony takes a different tack. He addresses not the listeners' heads but their gut feelings. And, weeping ostentatiously, he puts his own feelings on display: ''Bear with me. My heart is in the coffin there with Caesar.'' Never mind that anyone looking closely and coolly should be able to see through the pretense. The wily politician Antony manages to convince the crowd of his absolute sincerity: ''I am no orator as Brutus is -- But, as you know me all, a plain blunt man.'' 
 His cunning speech appeals at once to his listeners' fears, aroused by the ghastly spectacle of violence, and to their greed. To every Roman citizen he gives 75 drachmas. The handout, absurd at such a moment of public crisis, is magically effective. The mob erupts and, as Antony had calculated, Rome is plunged into a cycle of violence that he can exploit for his own political ends.
 Did it have to end like this? What if Brutus had honed his message more successfully? And what if the crowd had glimpsed something in Antony's face when he did not know he was being observed that gave away his cynical scheme? The course of history -- the collapse of order, years of bloodshed, wasted lives and treasure, the loss of liberty -- would have been startlingly different. 
 Have we learned something about listening to political oratory that Shakespeare's ''friends, Romans, countrymen'' did not know? Thursday night's debate seemed to me surprisingly revealing. I expected boilerplate, and of course was not totally disappointed in that, but there was something more. To my surprise, substantive differences between President Bush and Senator John Kerry emerged. 
 One man, the incumbent, insisted again and again on the need at all costs to avoid mixed messages. Everything for him was reduced to an apparently simple war-making strategy and a single enemy. The other man, the challenger, had a more complex account of the task. He expressed commitment to winning the war, but doubted its wisdom; he honored the sacrifice of our troops, but lamented our relative isolation from the rest of the world. 
 And then something entirely unexpected happened: the lengthy rulebook had called for the television cameras to focus exclusively on whichever man was speaking, but the networks flouted the ban and allowed the audience to see how each candidate responded to his rival's words. The effect was startling.
 Senator Kerry principally addressed his remarks to the moderator, Jim Lehrer, and when President Bush was speaking he watched attentively and jotted occasional notes. The president, for the most part, seemed more effective at facing the camera directly when he spoke; he understood that the task was not to persuade Mr. Lehrer to vote for him but to persuade the crowd. However, as many have noted, when he evidently thought he was unobserved he disclosed an astonishing range of emotions: confusion, annoyance and something like rage. 
 It was a revealing and unnerving sight, something like seeing into Antony's head when he addresses the Roman crowd. Will it make a difference to have seen what we have seen? I believe it will. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); THEATER (78%); POLITICS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (68%); MURDER (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



50 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Aristide Backers Riot for 3rd Day in Haiti; Death Toll Rises to 7

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
Supporters of Haiti's ousted president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, threw stones and fired guns on streets littered with debris and overturned cars on Saturday in a third day of violent protests demanding Mr. Aristide's return.
 At least seven people have been killed in the violence so far, including three police officers whose headless bodies were found Friday. A fourth police officer was also fatally shot on the first day of fighting. 
 ''Aristide's partisans have begun an urban guerrilla operation that they call Operation Baghdad,'' Jean-Claude Bajeux, a rights activist, said Saturday. ''The decapitations are imitative of those in Iraq, and they are meant to show the failure of U.S. policy in Haiti.''
 Tensions have exploded in Haiti as the country struggles to recover from catastrophic floods caused by Tropical Storm Jeanne two weeks ago. The storm killed more than 1,550 people and left some 900 missing, most presumed dead. It also left an estimated 300,000 homeless, some 200,000 of them in the northwestern city of Gonaives. The storm's aftermath has tied up about 750 of the 3,000 United Nations peacekeeping troops in Haiti.
 Against that backdrop, Mr. Aristide's Lavalas Family party on Thursday began three days of commemoration of the coup in 1991 that toppled Mr. Aristide's first government. They also demanded an end to ''the occupation'' and ''the invasion'' by foreign troops -- referring to the American-led force that came in after Mr. Aristide's ouster by a rebellion in February and the United Nations peacekeepers who have taken over since June.
 Most vendors stayed home on Saturday morning as supporters of Mr. Aristide, now in exile in South Africa, took to the streets. Masked gunmen were shooting into the air early on Saturday morning in the traditionally pro-Aristide neighborhood of Bel Air, the private radio station Signal FM reported. ''There is shooting,'' said Bonhonne Esperance, 42, an unemployed security guard in the area. ''They are throwing rocks. People can't walk on the street.''
 Gunfire also erupted early on Saturday in the slum of La Saline, and some people threw rocks at cars, residents said. At daybreak a team of Haitian police officers patrolled downtown Port-au-Prince by car.
 Brazilian troops came under fire while on patrol on Thursday in the traditionally pro-Aristide neighborhood of Cite Soleil, a seaside slum teeming with gangsters loyal to Mr. Aristide. A United Nations spokesman, Toussaint Kongo-Doudou, said the Brazilians returned fire. No injuries were reported.
 The Haitian station Radio Metropole reported that at least one civilian had been fatally shot at a pro-Aristide demonstration on Friday. Justice Minister Bernard Gousse said the police also killed two gang leaders and wounded a third on Thursday in Cite Soleil. On Friday in Port-au-Prince's western suburb of Martissant, protesters fired shots in the air, blocked a highway with burning tires and smashed car windows, witnesses said. Radio Metropole said at least one person was killed there and two were injured.
 Haiti's interim prime minister, Gerard Latortue, reiterated a pledge for new elections in 2005. ''We will not use violence and all of our problems must be solved through elections, which will take place next year,'' Mr. Latortue said during a visit on Friday in Coral Gables, Fla.
 The American-backed interim government that replaced Mr. Aristide's has proven ineffectual in responding to the needs in Gonaives, the center of the rebellion against Mr. Aristide. After the recent flooding in the city, hungry residents have repeatedly mobbed relief trucks and gangsters have stolen relief supplies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); WEATHER (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); HURRICANES (78%); FIREARMS (78%); COUPS (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); POLITICS (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (73%); FLOODS & FLOODING (73%); TERRORISM (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); HOMELESSNESS (67%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (66%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Demonstrations and Riots; Floods; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Politics and Government; Attacks on Police

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: Jean-Bertrand Aristide

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (93%); IRAQ (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%) Haiti; Port-Au-Prince (Haiti); Iraq; Brazil; Haiti

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



51 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1509 words

HEADLINE: The Beauty of Submission

BYLINE: By ZOE HELLER

 BODY:

THE SURRENDER
An Erotic Memoir.
By Toni Bentley.
208 pp. ReganBooks/
HarperCollins Publishers. $24.95.
 IN recent years, a small but pungent subgenre of extreme female confession has emerged from the general glut of published memoirs. The outre personal experiences retailed in such works have ranged from nymphomaniac picaresques (Catherine M.) and incest (Kathryn Harrison) to spanking fetishes (Daphne Merkin) and the obsessive cyber-stalking of ex-lovers (Katha Pollitt).
 For a reading public long since inured to the shock value of mere drug addiction or child abuse, these stories have provided a timely upping of the sensationalist ante. That dubious achievement aside, they are also to be credited with subverting some of the more pious 20th-century truisms concerning female sexuality. If the official rhetoric of second-wave feminism has tended to depict women as gentle, peaceable creatures who seek meaningful sexual encounters with respectful, supportive partners, the extreme confessors propose an altogether less sunshiny portrait both of women and of their desires. In doing so, they embarrass some of the simple-minded notions that have become associated, over the years, with the lapidary slogan ''The personal is political.'' Women do not, they remind us, always behave nobly in matters of the heart. Nor do women always need -- or want -- to be treated as valiant, serious-minded people in bed.
 To this interesting tributary of corrective incorrectness is now added ''The Surrender: An Erotic Memoir.'' Toni Bentley, a former ballet dancer who has written a number of books about dance (most notably ''Winter Season,'' an account of her life at the New York City Ballet during Balanchine's tenure), has taken the radical decision to compose a manifesto for anal sex. ''This is no feminist treatise about equality,'' she warns us -- perhaps a little superfluously -- in her introduction. ''This is the truth about the beauty of submission.''
 Predictably enough, the press material that arrived with my galley heralded this volume as a daring and courageous inquiry into ''what many consider to be the last remaining taboo.'' Anal sex is very far from being the last remaining taboo, of course. (The last time I checked, cannibalism and necrophilia were still struggling for acceptance.) Indeed, there are some signs that the status of anal sex as any kind of taboo is under attack. State laws against sodomy were struck down by the Supreme Court in 2003. And no less mainstream a fictional character than Bridget Jones cheerfully engaged in the practice, in the film adaptation of Helen Fielding's best-selling novel ''Bridget Jones's Diary.'' 
 Still, fair is fair: no woman before Bentley has felt quite zealous enough about what she calls ''emancipation through the back door'' to write an entire book in its praise. Bentley credits sodomy with having resolved the lifelong psychosexual problems that resulted from not being loved enough by her father. (In one luridly Freudian episode of this book, Bentley pere is described punishing his 4-year-old daughter for some minor infraction by angrily smearing a banana on her face and in her hair.) By giving herself up to ''this forbidden pathway,'' Bentley writes, she has not only found her self, she has discovered ''Paradise,'' she has experienced ''eternity in a moment of real time,'' and she has gotten to know God ''experientially.'' That's not all. She is also pretty sure that anal sex is responsible for piercing her yang, forcing her yin to the surface and releasing decades of anger stored in her lower intestine.
 Bentley's inclination to various kinds of self-abasement found early expression in her childhood fascination with the lives of the saints, and later on in her career as a ballet dancer. (All that pain and discipline, all that bowing and scraping before the God-like Balanchine.) But neither these interests nor a busy history of sexual experimentation ever fully satisfied her masochistic yearnings. Only, she claims, when she met a man prepared to focus his attention on her neglected orifice did she enter the realm of bliss. For the just under three years that she and her sodomizer -- a man referred to throughout the book by the regrettable moniker ''A-Man'' -- enjoyed regular bouts of earth-moving sex, Bentley maintained a detailed journal of her experiences. She also kept a tally of how many times she was anally penetrated and made mathematical calculations about the average number of anal episodes she was having per year, week and day. She fetishized the accouterments of her sexual obsession -- dedicating herself to finding the best and most economical lubricants, the most sex-friendly boudoir-wear. In a manner befitting a woman who was experiencing a spiritual as well as sexual awakening, she also preserved her lover's used condoms, much as an acolyte might hoard religious relics.
 ''THE SURRENDER'' is a brave book -- although not because it tackles a ''taboo'' or because it is frank. (Candor is surely too epidemic in the popular culture, these days, to qualify any longer as courageous.) Its bravery lies rather in its earnest attempt to do justice to the transcendent dimension of a profane act. Sex, it is always claimed, is immensely difficult to write about. But that's not quite true. To recount the embarrassments and alienation of lackluster coitus is a relative doddle. It is good sex -- or great sex -- that presents the real challenges for a writer. While Bentley certainly has the requisite pluck for the job, her prose, alas, proves incommensurate with her ambition.
 For much of her narrative, she resorts to the demotic language of contemporary pornography. While unbeautiful, this has the virtue of appropriateness. It is when she strives for a high, poetic style that she runs into problems.
 ''I was now being given a second chance,'' she writes of her anal deflowering, ''not on the well-trodden vaginal trail, but in a place entirely new to my consciousness -- and it quickly became the site of my consciousness.''
 The results of her laboriously facetious punning jags are hardly more pleasing:
 ''This is the back story of a love story. A back story that is the whole story. A second hole story, to be entirely accurate. Love from inside my backside. . . . No hindsight for me in this great love but rather behind-sight -- cited from the eye of my behind.''
 And the jaunty ''how-to'' voice into which she occasionally lapses (when weighing up the relative merits of shaving versus waxing, say, or deliberating on which kind of ''scanty panties'' provide the better value) yields perhaps the most gruesome sentences of all.
 Bentley is a great believer in the virtues of what the sociologists call ''transactional sex.'' Which is to say, she is against diluting her erotic pleasures with the banal stuff of relationships. ''Desire is sexy, a show of free will,'' she writes; ''attachment is the enemy of free will.'' Dinner dates are anathema. ''I preferred sex on an empty stomach, and to eat alone with a good book.'' She presents the affair with A-Man as the perfect enactment of her sexual philosophy. She never goes out with him. They have no mutual friends. Their relationship is restricted to her bedroom. When, at last, she is confronted with the fact that he is sleeping with another woman, and suffers pangs of terrible jealousy, she chooses to dump him rather than beg for the death-in-life that is fidelity.
 This -- much more than Bentley's preferred sexual position -- is the truly provocative matter dealt with in ''The Surrender.'' Most married adults -- male and female -- know something about the business of trading intensity for security and passion for comfort. But as wistful as they may sometimes grow for the excitements of yesteryear, very few of them have the mettle to live out Bentley's austere choice. Her desire and ability to do so may, she acknowledges, be evidence of deep psychic wounds. But if so, she is happy to be wounded. ''I once loved a man so much that I no longer existed -- all Him, no Me,'' she writes. ''Now I love myself just enough that no man exists -- all Me, no Them. They all used to be God, and I used to be a figment of my own imagination; now men are figments of my imagination.''
 IF this is a victory, it's surely the Pyrrhic kind. There is something grimly narcissistic about the world of zipless, fantasy sex that Bentley has created for herself; something sad and alienated about its unforgiving aesthetic standards and intolerance of human frailty. (Apart from the bedroom, the only other location that features in this book with any frequency is the gym.) Moreover, the contempt that Bentley expresses for women who have not taken her path -- her characterization of them as pitiable bourgeois types, mired in laundry and consumer goods, who have forsaken sexual joy for mortgages -- is suspiciously vehement. She protests too much. Surely, if you're certain of having found Paradise, you can afford to be a little more magnanimous toward your less privileged sisters?


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Michele Mattei)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PUBLISHING (90%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); LITERATURE GENRES (89%); LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (76%); BESTSELLERS (73%); CYBERCRIME (71%); CHILD ABUSE (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); BALLET (69%); DANCERS (64%); DANCE COMPANIES (64%); SUPREME COURTS (62%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Toni Bentley; Zoe Heller

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



52 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: RECONSTRUCTION; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Moves Closer to Relief Of Iraqi Debts to the West

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
The administration moved closer to its goal of winning forgiveness for the debt that Iraq owes Western nations, the primary aim of the United States here at the annual meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund this weekend.
 Forgiving the debt is considered critical to Iraq's future, as is quelling the insurgency. Even if considerable aid is offered to Iraq at international meetings in the future, Washington believes that Iraq will never attract the foreign investment it needs to revive its oil industry and its economy so long as it carries it unsustainable debt of $120 billion.
 ''Iraq faces two basic problems: the terrible security situation and the terrible debt situation,'' said Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs in New York, who is working with Iraq and the administration on this issue. ''You have the chance to solve the debt problem here in Washington this weekend.'' 
 The Group of 7, which includes most of the important creditor nations in the West, approved an Iraq debt relief program devised by the International Monetary Fund on Friday night; the plan will not be made public.
 In a statement, the finance ministers of the Group of 7 nations -- the United States, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan -- said, ''We welcome the approval of the I.M.F. of a sound and credible program for Iraq, which is an important step toward our commitment to resolve Iraq's debt before the end of the year.''
 However, the I.M.F. put off any decision on a proposal to forgive 100 percent of the debt of the world's poorest countries and, instead, asked that a study be prepared by year's end that will present the best alternatives for eliminating the debt.
 While the details of the accord reached here are unclear, the United States would like to cement a deal when the group of industrial nations known as the Paris Club meets later this month. But there are evident stumbling blocks.
 Other poor countries, especially in Africa, are buried in debt amassed by ruthless dictators. They are demanding that generosity toward Iraq should be matched in their cases, so that they can climb out of the debt that has tied their hands in the fight to stop AIDS.
 Development experts and activists had hoped to link debt relief for Iraq with help for the poorest nations, but their strategy appeared to crumble late on Friday when the Group of 7 approved a plan dealing only with Iraq.
 Gordon Brown, the British chancellor of the exchequer and the author of a plan to pay off the debt of the poorest nations by revaluing I.M.F. gold, said he was not disappointed with the outcome of the meeting.
 ''There has been considerable progress made this weekend,'' Mr. Brown said, pointing to what he called a ''growing consensus'' that poor nations' debt was an urgent problem.
 He also said that there was no link between Iraq's debt, which is largely owed to individual countries, and the debt of the poor nations, which is owed to international financial institutions.
 But Mr. Brown did offer a challenge to the world's other wealthy nations to follow his lead and unilaterally forgive a portion of this mounting debt of the poor. Last week Britain announced that it would pay off 10 percent of that debt.
 Iraq's debt is almost four times larger than the $32 billion needed to pay off all the debt of several dozen countries.
 Behind the scenes, France and Germany have been holding out against the United States' demand for a 90 to 95 percent forgiveness of Iraq's debt, saying that Iraq must repay some of its debts when it becomes a successful oil-producing nation in the future.
 The two European countries suggested that only half of Iraq's debt to them be forgiven, but the senior Treasury Department official, who asked not to be identified, said late on Friday night that ''anything like 50 percent debt forgiveness is unworkable.''
 The I.M.F. plan is neutral on whether the Paris Club should reduce the debt by 50 percent or 95 percent, said an I.M.F. official, who asked not to be identified.
 The French finance minister, Nicolas Sarkozy, said here on Friday that the disagreements had narrowed but that differences remained.
 The United States is hoping that a nearly full forgiveness of the debt owed to the Paris Club will set a precedent in regard to the $80 billion of debt that Iraq owes to other Middle Eastern and Persian Gulf countries.
 Administration officials are arguing that countries that refused to send troops to Iraq should assist the economic recovery of the nation that has become pivotal in the future of the Middle East.
 The Group of 7 meetings were held on the sidelines of the annual meetings this weekend of the monetary fund and World Bank here. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); APPROVALS (87%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



53 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; BackTalk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Major Change Is Inevitable For Hockey, Now or Later

BYLINE: By STAN KASTEN. 
Stan Kasten was president of the Atlanta Braves, the Hawks and the Thrashers.

 BODY:
The end of the National Hockey League lockout is nowhere in sight, but the result is not merely foreseeable, it's inevitable. When the N.H.L. resumes play, it will do so with a new economic system in which there is either a negotiated figure for player payroll or some variation of a cost-certain system that establishes a much closer connection between revenue and payroll.
 I came to the N.H.L. as president of the Atlanta Thrashers in 1999 and served on the executive committee of its board of governors until a year ago. Having been involved in the labor wars of the 80's and 90's in Major League Baseball and the National Basketball Association, I was well aware of the enormous gains made by Bob Goodenow and the National Hockey League Players Association over the past decade. In that time, the average annual player salary rose to more than $1.8 million from around $500,000, with top individual salaries exceeding $10 million. 
 But I was unaware of the extent to which the collective bargaining agreement then in place was ravaging the finances of N.H.L. teams. In meeting after meeting, team owners and executives would hear the gloomy economic results of the previous season along with worsening forecasts.
 Though I was also aware of the union's historically close ideological association with the baseball players' union, I was impressed with the attitude of the hockey players, who seemed to recognize far better than their baseball and basketball counterparts that a serious problem existed and was growing. Even the agents in hockey were far more willing to consider constructive alternatives and were on occasion publicly critical of the union's no-holds-barred negotiating stance.
 So, as long as five years ago, the N.H.L. approached the union looking for relief. The union rebuffed all entreaties, as it had a right to do. It did so again four years ago, and three years ago, and two years ago. Rather than try to negotiate with the N.H.L. to extend the agreement, as a team might try to do with a prized player approaching free agency, the union chose to play hardball. In those years, the team losses exceeded $1 billion, $500 million in the last two years alone.
 Now, the union accuses the N.H.L. of planning its lockout, and in a real sense, the union is right. League officials understood that there was no legal way to escape unilaterally from the collective bargaining agreement, and they had no choice but to accept the consequences. We were continually searching for ways to ease the problem, and in fact had quite a good record of raising revenues during that time. But we also understood that this contract would expire on Sept. 15, after which time we could negotiate a new arrangement. So, preparation for the new era, to begin on Sept. 16, was necessary.
 The tweaks and minor relief that the union is offering now, and that would have been so welcome five years ago, will not do the job. The losses have been too extreme, the hole too deep. In my three decades of involvement in collective bargaining in three sports, I have never seen a group of owners more prepared, more resolute and, frankly, more in need of a wholesale reformation of the system. It is clear that when the N.H.L. returns, it will be with a more rational system.
 This shouldn't surprise anyone, least of all the players. Salary caps have become the norm in professional sports, and the hockey union would be hard pressed to show that a relationship between revenue and payroll has ruined the National Football League and the N.B.A., or their players' lives.
 But there are three parties in this negotiation. The league seeks a system that allows the business to grow. The union leadership understandably resists losing ground. And the rank and file have concerns about their welfare as they try to capitalize on their short careers. Although the league, and perhaps the union leadership, will survive this lockout, there is no telling what will remain for the players.
 It is ironic that the certainty of a new economic system now gives the union an opportunity to achieve major gains. The union could, and should, turn its attention from the losing battle on economics and focus on the dozens of other issues that affect players every day, like game rules, rink conditions, traveling and scheduling, not to mention the structural issues like contract guarantees and free agency.
 In exchange for a satisfactory economic system, the N.H.L. would find it hard to avoid agreeing to major improvements in these areas. Players' lives would be improved in immediate ways. And the union, which has been so successful, could salvage the only real victory left: making the best deal possible without losing regular-season games.
 But the clock is ticking. The longer the lockout progresses, and certainly if regular-season games are missed, the less likely the N.H.L. will be to make noneconomic concessions. This will not be out of pique or retribution, but out of necessity. Someday the N.H.L. will resume play, and when that happens it will need every device to win back its fans.
 There is still time to salvage this season, but Goodenow has even more at stake. If he does not seize this opportunity to reach a rational agreement, all the good work he has done over the past 10 years will be forgotten. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASEBALL (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (88%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); DALLAS STARS (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); ATLANTA THRASHERS (57%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (56%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%) GEORGIA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



54 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Charles Wang Goes Vertical In Coliseum Plan

BYLINE: By STEWART AIN

 BODY:
AFTER years spent getting his ducks in a row, Charles B. Wang parted the curtain last week on his vision for the redevelopment of the Nassau Coliseum site, adding residential, retail and office space and a 60-story hotel-condo tower that would dwarf every other building on the Island.
 The development would also turn the Nassau Hub from a notion into a reality, creating a central axis for the Garden City government complex, Roosevelt Field, Eisenhower Park, Hofstra University, Mitchel Field, Nassau Community College, downtown Hempstead, EAB Plaza and the Nassau University Medical Center in East Meadow, whose 19-story building is now the tallest on Long Island.
 Mr. Wang, who does not own the Coliseum but does own its prime tenant, the New York Islanders, declined public comment on the redevelopment proposal last week, and he and his associates were withholding public disclosure of many details, presenting briefings only to state and county officials. 
 ''It's very exciting and original,'' said Judith A. Jacobs, presiding officer of the Nassau County Legislature, who was one of those briefed. But she noted that ''there is a difference between a plan that looks great on paper and going with those plans to the community and the town zoning board. He has a long road ahead and he is aware of that.'' 
 The Coliseum sits on 5 acres of a 77-acre plot, the rest of which is parking lot. Ms. Jacobs said Mr. Wang does not expect cash-strapped Nassau County to contribute money to the project but rather to give him development rights to the 77 acres.
 Roger Corbin, another legislative Democrat who also attended a briefing and whose Nassau Legislature district includes the Coliseum site, praised the ''very ambitious project.''
 ''It's a good thing for Nassau County and I think the residents are going to enthusiastically support this,'' he said. ''We need to make sure our county is moving forward in terms of our recreation and tourist sites, and this is the only way to raise revenue because there is no more land to expand our tax base.''
 Peter J. Schmitt, the Republican minority leader of the Nassau Legislature, said he met with Mr. Wang for an hour on Tuesday and understood that the first phase of the project would be financed by loans from the Nassau County Industrial Development Agency, assistance from the New York State development corporation, and Mr. Wang himself. Mr. Wang made his fortune as founder of the Computer Associates software company in Islandia.
 ''There are a lot of 'ifs' here,'' Mr. Schmitt said. ''He still has to formalize a deal with the county executive and then send the proposal to the Legislature for approval.''
 The county executive, Thomas R. Suozzi, declined to comment on the project.
 Representatives of Mr. Wang said they expect to begin briefing residents of the surrounding area in the coming weeks. But Robert Zafonte, president of the East Meadow Civic and Community Association, which has 3,500 members, said he is troubled by what he has read in the newspapers.
 ''The high-rise disturbs me,'' he said. ''It seems to be totally out of character with the nature of the suburban area here. It is not consistent with what Long Island is all about -- residential, small homes. I don't think it belongs here.''
 Mr. Zafonte said he also feared that the 60-story tower, topped by a revolving beacon that on a clear night would be visible to anyone in Nassau or Suffolk with a view of the horizon, would entice terrorists ''to target our area.''
 Desmond Ryan, executive director of the Association for a Better Long Island, a developers' lobby, questioned the viability of a 60-story building.
 ''Has anybody checked with the F.A.A?'' he asked. ''You have four airports here -- LaGuardia, Kennedy, Newark and MacArthur. I don't think the F.A.A. is going to sit by and allow an ego edifice to be erected.''
 Representatives of Mr. Wang said they have had preliminary talks with the Federal Aviation Administration and are hopeful that the 600-foot lighthouse would be approved. 
 Although the lighthouse might be the most controversial part of the multibillion-dollar project -- Mr. Wang's associates have not provided an estimate of the cost -- the first phase of the two-phase project is generating nothing but praise. It involves what Michael J. Picker, senior vice president of operations for the New York Islanders, called the ''transformation'' of the Coliseum and the erection of an attached athletic complex.
 The first phase is expected to cost in excess of $200 million, Mr. Picker said, and is scheduled to begin construction as early as June 2006 and to take three years to complete. The work would be done from June through October to avoid disrupting the Islanders' season.
 ''The Coliseum is the second oldest building in the N.H.L. and badly in need of upgrades, from capacity size to the overall infrastructure,'' he said.
 The transformation of the Coliseum calls for the floor of the ice rink to be lowered to accommodate additional seats, bringing it to 17,500 seats instead of the current 16,300 during hockey games, 18,500 for basketball games and 20,000 for concerts.
 In addition, 50 new luxury boxes are to be added at Row 15 of the Coliseum, affording a view of the ice rink that would be the closest for luxury-type seating in the National Hockey League, Mr. Picker said. All of the other boxes would remain where they are. The renovations are expected to generate more than $200 million in additional revenue to the county and state over 25 years, he said.
 Attached to the Coliseum would be a 125,000-square-foot athletic complex that would include two ice rinks -- one would be a practice rink for the Islanders and the other would be open to the public -- a basketball court and a multi-tiered state-of-the art fitness club where the Islanders and Mr. Wang's other team, the New York Dragons of the Arena Football League, would also train.
 Dr. Gary Wadler, chairman and president of the Nassau Sports Commission, an independent group formed in 1992 to promote sports in the county, said he liked the project. 
 ''We already have a constellation of new or upgraded sports facilities in Nassau, and the Coliseum sits in the middle of them,'' he said, citing such sites as the Aquatic Center in Eisenhower Park, the stadium at Hofstra University and the Mitchel Field athletic complex.
 Another component of the project would be moderately priced housing, something desperately needed on Long Island, according to Pearl Kamer, chief economist of the Long Island Association, a business group.
 ''We lost 25,000 people between the ages of 25 and 34 between 2000 and 2002, according to Census Bureau estimates, and presumably many were young college graduates who could no longer afford our housing,'' she said. ''At the same time, we have defense firms who can no longer find engineers and technicians. They can't attract them from other areas because when they see our housing prices, they say what they would be paid would not be enough to compensate them.''
 To accommodate the additional traffic, Patricia A. Bourne, director of the Nassau County Planning Commission, said STV Inc. in Manhattan, a transportation, planning and engineering firm, is now studying various transportation proposals for the Nassau Hub and is expected to issue a report in time for a public meeting sometime in the fall.
 ''They are looking at light rail, rapid commute vehicles -- which are like buses but have their own roadway system so that they don't stop at traffic lights -- and Long Island Bus,'' she said. ''They are looking at cost and alternatives in terms of feasibility, such as will the riders be there to support light rail, which would require more riders than buses.''
 Ms. Bourne said she hoped to have the system up and running by 2008 to 2010, depending upon the decisions made and funding.
 The second phase of the project involves erecting a conference center, a sports technology building, residences and the 60-story lighthouse. The latter would include a five-star hotel whose lobby would be at about the 40th floor, below which would be luxury condominiums whose residents would be able to take advantage of all the amenities of the hotel. The hotel itself would have 500 rooms, four restaurants, ballrooms and sky terraces.


GRAPHIC: Photos: THE HUB OF THE HUB -- Charles Wang's proposal for the Nassau Coliseum includes apartments, stores, offices and a 60-story hotel-condo-lighthouse visible from anywhere on the Island. In this architect's rendering, the Coliseum is in the right corner. (Photo by New York Islanders)(pg. 1)
 In this rendering a refurbished Nassau Coliseum is flanked by office space on the left and a skyscraper hotel-condominium on the right. Bracketing the plaza in the foreground are apartments with street-level retail. (Photo by New York Islanders)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COUNTIES (89%); ZONING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); RETAILERS (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (71%); CITIES (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%) Nassau Coliseum; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Hotels and Motels; Housing; Condominiums; Retail Stores and Trade; Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: CA INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (91%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: Charles B Wang; Stewart Ain

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Garden City (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



55 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; LONG ISLAND JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: Toasting an Icon of Lido Beach's Golden Era

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER. 
E-mail: lijournal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
JOANNE and Bob Belli have a three-bedroom colonial in Malverne. But more often than not, when they head home from their teaching jobs in New York City, the Bellis wind up at their tiny oceanfront studio at the Lido Beach Towers, a gated luxury condominium widely known as the Pink Lady. 
 ''We spend a great deal of time here because it's enchanting,'' said Ms. Belli, standing on her balcony overlooking the Atlantic. ''It's an instant vacation.''
 The Moorish-style building, with 184 units, was formerly the Lido Beach Hotel, for half a century the dowager queen of this South Shore beach community. Completed in 1929, the 300-room hotel was designed to be an exclusive seaside country club reminiscent of a Riviera spa. 
 Its restaurant had a retractable domed roof for dining under the stars. The circular nightclub drew a flashy roster of entertainers that included Sammy Davis Jr., Barbra Streisand and Connie Francis. 
 But times changed, the allure faded and the last guests checked out. In 1981, the hotel, on 12 sandy beachfront acres on the border with Long Beach, was converted into a condominium. With a private beach, tennis courts, swimming pool, gym, 24-hour concierge, party room and deli, it smacks of Miami Beach. Cabana boys set up chairs on the beach. But the nightclub, indoor and outdoor Olympic-size pools, 1,000-seat dining room, jewelry store and seaside promenade are long gone. 
 But to Ms. Belli, a member of the board of managers, the glamour of the castlelike building hasn't faded. 
 ''Many of the people who live here have apartments in Manhattan and have chosen this instead of going to the Hamptons,'' she said. ''It's a much easier commute.'' 
 To celebrate the building's 75th anniversary, recall its storied past and toast its future, Ms. Belli organized a cocktail party.
 On a recent evening, a mostly older but stylish crowd sipped apple martinis by the mirrored rococo columns and danced under the vaulted arches in the lobby. Residents recalled years past when gentlemen were expected to wear tuxedos to dinner on Saturday nights. 
 ''If you were invited to this hotel, it was a special occasion,'' said Roslyn Sonabend, 79, who with her husband, David, has lived in Lido Beach since 1946 and moved into the Pink Lady 12 years ago. Women wore gowns and dazzled with diamonds, fur stoles around their shoulders, she said. 
 Harvey Weisenberg, the state assemblyman from Long Beach, remembered his youthful stint as the hotel's head lifeguard. Mr. Weisenberg said the hotel, with its fanciful architecture, had always been the barrier island's landmark.
 ''If anybody used to say, 'How do you get to Long Beach and when will I know I'm there?' we would all say, 'Look at the pink building,''' Mr. Weisenberg recalled. 
 The bubble-gum-colored hotel, now lusterless gray stucco, was intended to be the jewel in State Senator William Reynolds's plan to make Lido Beach the Venice of America. 
 But Reynolds never completed the paradise he envisioned. Roberta Fiore, a Long Beach historian, said the hotel was built next to the original Lido Beach golf course. But only a 10th of the 186-acre resort Reynolds planned was completed. 
 ''His last gift to the barrier island that he built was the Lido hotel and this dream,'' Ms. Fiore said. Money ran short, Mr. Reynolds died in 1931 and the hotel eventually fell into receivership. When the Navy occupied Long Beach island during World War II, the hotel became a discharge center. After the war, the hotel reopened. 
 Martin Tannenbaum, developer of Yonkers Raceway, acquired the hotel in 1962, sold off 175 acres to members of the Lido Golf Club and left it in the hands of absentee management. The course later became the site of the Long Beach Middle School and some of the acreage became the Town of Hempstead Beach Park at Lido West.
 Priced at $5 million when it was offered for sale in 1966, the hotel languished on the market for five years until Yolanda Fischer, attracted by its old-fashioned elegance, bought the property in 1971 with four partners for $1.25 million.
 ''When I saw it I fell in love with it,'' said Ms. Fischer, who still lives in the building. She sank half a million dollars into sprucing it up. 
 ''Right away we opened it for a social place and we were very happy,'' said Ms. Fischer, who with her husband, Abraham, once ran six other Long Beach hotels and catering facilities and still owns the Hotel Jackson. ''We were very successful for a good while. We were very busy in the summer. We had a very high-class clientele.'' 
 But her plan to turn what had once been a beacon to New York socialites into a strictly kosher Catskills-by-the-sea resort could not sustain itself with a 10-week season, even with the star-studded lineup in the nightclub. 
 ''Everything was expensive to keep up,'' she recalled. ''It was too huge, the building, for a kosher place.'' To keep it from becoming a white elephant, the hotel was converted to condominiums. 
 The six-story building has two wings designed to buffer the breezes. In May, a one-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath oceanfront duplex sold for $786,000. 
 Parish Merriweather, president of the board, said the condominium owners were pouring $4 million into a three-year refurbishment that started with the twin domed cupolas. The building will be repainted its original pink. 
 ''This is really the embarking on the restoration of the building to bring it back to its heyday of elegance and splendor,'' Mr. Merriweather said. 

Women in Politics
 ''Go vote. Go run. Go lead. Go girl.'' The words emblazoned on T-shirts at a rally attended recently by more than 200 women at SUNY-Old Westbury tidily summed up the message Marie C. Wilson was trying to impart.
 Ms. Wilson is the former president of the Ms. Foundation and author of ''Closing the Leadership Gap: Why Women Can and Must Help Run the World'' (Viking Books, 2004). She was the founder of ''Take Our Daughters to Work Day.'' Now this feminist is trying to lead a new generation of women to the polls and beyond. 
 Fifteen million women ages 18 to 34 didn't vote in 2002, Ms. Wilson said. But the ''Vote, Run, Lead'' event was not just to get women to the polls.
 ''The most important thing you can do to change this country would be to put a critical mass of women into leadership to lead side by side with men,'' Ms. Wilson said. 
 Working the room like Oprah, microphone in hand, she searched for a woman who had considered running for office. Laura Schultz of Syosset was one of three who raised her hand. 
 ''Politics is a blood sport,'' Ms. Schultz, 53, said later. ''It's a man's game. If you are the only woman there, you have to be ready to take it between the eyes.''
 Recruiting for a future leadership training session, Ms. Wilson urged women to think about hitting the campaign trail, from local school boards to the governor's mansion and the White House. The push was part of the White House Project, a national nonpartisan organization dedicated to advancing leadership by women.
 Ms. Wilson said that at No.13 in terms of women elected to state office, New York was ''not high up on the food chain in terms of representatives.'' 
 Citing studies that found that the pipeline to power in America is 86 percent male and 81 percent white, Ms. Wilson said most men look in the mirror and decide to run.
 ''Women need somebody to tap them on the shoulder and say, 'Have you ever thought of it?''' Ms. Wilson said. 
 Diane Cohen, executive director of the Long Island Fund for Women and Girls, a a co-sponsor of the event and a nonprofit that finances local programs that improve the lives of women and girls, said young women needed to get involved in local politics. 
 ''It's harder for a woman to run than a man,'' Ms. Cohen said. 
 Dana Friedman is president of Women on the Job, a co-sponsor of the rally and a Port Washington-based nonprofit whose goal is to advance women's rights in the workplace. Despite the perception, she said, statistics prove that the battle for equality has not been won. 
 ''Women make up 51 percent of our population and only 14 percent of the Congress of the United States,'' Ms. Friedman said. ''It's not much to be proud of.'' Internationally, the United States ranks 57th in women's political leadership, she said. 
 Erin Forte, 21, a senior at Old Westbury, is president of the school's Politics, Economics and Society Club. Ms. Forte said Ms. Wilson reaffirmed her plan to go to law school and into politics. 
 ''It's about voting and getting students involved,'' Ms. Forte said. ''It's the history of how this country has been run. It hasn't been 100 years since we got the vote.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Lido Beach Towers from Joanne Belli's balcony. At left, Assemblyman Harvey Weisenberg addressing the crowd that gathered in the lobby to mark the building's 75th anniversary. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); BEACHES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); SPORTS (77%); SWIMMING (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); RESTAURANTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%); TENNIS (66%) Housing; Parties (Social); Condominiums; Politics and Government; Women; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Lido Beach Hotel (Defunct); State University of New York at Old Westbury

PERSON: Joanne Belli; Marie Wilson; Marcelle S Fischler

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



56 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: When Gentlemen First Started Their Engines

BYLINE: By NICK KURCZEWSKI

 BODY:
ON Oct. 8, 1904, William K. Vanderbilt Jr. turned 30 miles of public roads, mostly in Nassau County with a few miles in Queens, into a racecourse so that he and his tycoon friends could play with their new toys called automobiles. The Vanderbilt Cup, contested annually, quickly became America's most prestigious auto race, drawing an international field and crowds of 300,000. 
 A few years later, Vanderbilt even built his own road through Nassau and Suffolk to indulge his passion for the automobile. 
 To celebrate the 100th anniversary of the race and Vanderbilt's contributions to American motor sports, 50 vintage cars will cover much of the 1904 racecourse, which began and ended in Old Westbury. Starting at 10 a.m. today at Jericho Turnpike and Hitchcock Lane, the cars will head east on the turnpike, then south on North Broadway through Hicksville and then west on Hempstead Turnpike. In 1904, the racers would have continued into Queens, but today the drivers will make a slight detour onto Plainfield Avenue in Floral Park, then back to Jericho Turnpike and the finish line. 
 As part of the celebration, 200 vehicles will be on display at the Suffolk County Vanderbilt Museum in Centerport, which is housed in the mansion that Vanderbilt used initially as his summer home. One of the stars will undoubtedly be a 1904 Pope-Toledo, a veteran of the first race.
 ''The Vanderbilt Cup,'' a Broadway play hugely popular during the race's heyday, will be presented at 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. and then at 10 a.m. on subsequent Sundays through November. 
 The celebration is a reminder that American motor sports got its unlikely start on Long Island. ''The Vanderbilt Cup was the first major auto event in the U.S.,'' said Donald Davidson, the historian at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway Hall of Fame Museum. ''There was nothing even close.'' 
 To put Vanderbilt's pioneering efforts in some context, consider that in 1904, the worldwide automobile industry was in its infancy. Only eight years earlier, in 1896, Frank and Charles Duryea had assembled 13 two-cylinder runabouts in Springfield, Mass., the first time multiple copies of a single automobile design had been built in the United States. Ransom E. Olds, another pioneer, had produced his first Oldsmobile in 1897, the first Cadillac had appeared in 1902, and the Buick and Ford companies had been incorporated only a year earlier, in 1903.
 In the first decade of the 20th century, owning a car was a privilege reserved only for the wealthy, and Vanderbilt certainly qualified. He was a great-grandson of Cornelius Vanderbilt, the railroad tycoon. In 1904, Fords and Cadillacs cost $750 to $900, and Packards a whopping $3,000. In contrast, the total annual income for many American families was less than $1,000. 
 Automobiles of the era were difficult to drive and repair, and people who could afford a car often hired a chauffeur, who was expected to be able to manhandle the newfangled contraption and to keep it running. Engines were cantankerous, and breakdowns were frequent. So were flat tires. The roads of the day were often nothing more than rutted dirt cart tracks.
 Driving those early automobiles took a fair amount of human muscle. Just starting the engine was a chore -- the driver had to use a hand crank. And power steering was 50 years away. 
 Still, this did not dissuade early auto enthusiasts like Vanderbilt from indulging their passion. The seed for the idea of the Vanderbilt Cup was probably planted during Vanderbilt's own racing adventures. He had twice set the land speed record, the first time in 1902, when he drove a Mors at 76.08 miles per hour. Two years later, in 1904, he bettered Henry Ford's speed and pushed the record to just over 92 m.p.h., this time in a Mercedes. 
 In the early 1900's, auto racing was dominated by European makes like Mercedes, Fiat, Darracq and Panhard. Vanderbilt questioned why American automakers were unable or unwilling to use their industrial clout to challenge the Europeans, and he set about founding an American auto race that would pit American makes against the best of Europe.
 For most Long Islanders of the time, the idea of an automobile race brought equal amounts of excitement, panic and anger. Just before the first Vanderbilt Cup, The New York Times reported that Hempstead residents were furious because their rugs were being ruined. The dirt roads designated as part of the racecourse were covered with a layer of thick crude oil to keep the dust down, and the oily dirt got tracked indoors. 
 Just as the cars and drivers were assembling, E.M. Bennett of North Hempstead, the secretary of the People's Protective Association of Nassau County, unsuccessfully sought an injunction against the race. His lawyer, William H. Good, told the court: ''These races will be of no economical or other advantage to Nassau County but are purely for the gratification of the aristocratic taste of persons who own automobiles and like to see how fast they can be run.'' 
 The course for the first Vanderbilt Cup race was arduous, covering 10 laps over 30 miles of road, some of it paved and some not. Eighteen cars entered, each carrying a driver and a mechanic. 
 Road conditions were diabolical. Rocks and ruts tore up wheel spokes and tires. Ditches and culverts were potentially lethal hazards for any car that veered off course.
 To further complicate matters, the course was often teeming with curious spectators. Contemporary reports estimated a crowd of 50,000 or more, and films of the race, which can be seen at the Vanderbilt Museum, show that a popular vantage point was the middle of the road. The crowds scrambled to get out of the way only moments before the cars came roaring past.
 Despite the hazards, George Heath, an American, won the first Vanderbilt Cup in a French-built Panhard at an average speed of 52.2 m.p.h. 
 Vanderbilt hailed the competition as a great success. ''I think the race will result beneficially for the future of American automobiling,'' he said to a Times reporter. ''We have, I think, shown the automobile world that we can hold a big race in this country with safety to the contestants and to the spectators.'' 
 After that first Cup, America caught auto-racing fever. Racers and car companies from around the world began flocking to Long Island, and in 1906 crowds for the Vanderbilt Cup grew to 250,000 spectators. But the race was marred by the deaths of two spectators after Elliott Shepard lost control of his car and slammed into a group of people at Krug's Corner in Mineola. 
 After that, concerns about crowd control led to the cancellation of the Vanderbilt Cup in 1907. But the crowds and cars returned the following year, and the Cup soared to new heights of popularity.
 The 1908 race resulted in the first major racing victory for an American automobile. The winning vehicle, a Locomobile driven by 23-year-old George Robertson, was nicknamed ''Old No. 16,'' from the large black starting number painted on its white hood. It was powered by a monstrous 16-liter four-cylinder engine, about eight times the displacement of today's small sedans. 
 The 1908 race was also the first time that 10 miles of Vanderbilt's privately built road, the Long Island Motor Parkway, was used as part of the racecourse. Vanderbilt had conceived of this private 45-mile highway, running from Flushing, Queens to Lake Ronkonkoma, as a quick and easy route for plutocrats of the Gold Coast era to get from New York City to their lavish Long Island estates. 
 And because the road was privately owned, Vanderbilt could skirt laws relating to public road use. There was no posted speed limit, and the parkway's banked curves encouraged high-speed driving.
 Financing was provided by wealthy homeowners who sought to increase their property values by touting access to a major roadway. Despite original plans to keep the parkway private, it was soon opened to the public for a $2 toll. The 11 handsome tollhouses served as year-round residences for the toll collectors and their families. The only surviving tollhouse can be seen at 230 Seventh Street in Garden City, where it now serves as Chamber of Commerce offices.
 Beverly Rae Kimes, the automotive historian and an expert on pre-World War II cars, said that Vanderbilt hoped that using the motor parkway for the race would make it safer for spectators and drivers alike. ''William K. was described as a society swell but a bully good fellow,'' Ms. Kimes said. But she added that the parkway also allowed Vanderbilt ''to continue to have high-speed fun with his motoring buddies.'' 
 It was the continuing crowd-control problems that finally brought an end to the running of the Vanderbilt Cup on Long Island. In the 1910 race, which drew 300,000 people, two mechanics and two spectators were killed, and 20 were injured.
 But the American enthusiasm for motor sports -- for fast cars and daring drivers, for the excitement and yes, the risks and the wrecks -- had been kindled.
 ''The Vanderbilt Cup was the most exciting thing that happened on the Island since the Battle of Long Island during the Revolutionary War,'' Ms. Kimes said. ''It introduced a whole lot of people to the automobile who didn't know anything about them. It also introduced Americans to the dangers of racing.''
 The race also pushed American automakers into competition on both the rack and the showroom floor with the best of Europe. And Vanderbilt's vision changed Long Island's roadways and the shape of the automotive world.


GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photo by New York Times archives)(pg. 1)
Remnants of the Long Island Motor Parkway, built by William K. Vanderbilt Jr., are still visible near the Roosevelt Field shopping mall. (Photographs by The New York Times)
George Heath crossing the finish line in a Panhard racer to win the 1904 Vanderbilt Cup. His average speed was 52.2 miles per hour. (Photo by Lazarnick)
 Krug's Hotel, at Jericho Turnpike and Willis Avenue in Mineola, was a prime viewing spot. The corner looks quite a bit different now. (Photo From S. Berliner III)(pg. 10)Map of Long Island shows the Route of the 1904 Vanderbilt Cup Race. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); HISTORY (75%); THEATER (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%) Automobile Racing

ORGANIZATION: Suffolk County Vanderbilt Museum and Planetarium (NY)

PERSON: William K Jr Vanderbilt; Nick Kurczewski

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Old Westbury (NY); Long Island (NY); Nassau County (NY); New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



57 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The World; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: Irrelevant? OPEC Is Sitting Pretty.

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
THE signs of OPEC's supposed decline into irrelevance are all around. 
 Its share of world oil output, once 50 percent, is down to about one-third. It was caught unprepared by a prodigious run-up in demand this year. Nearly all its members are ignoring their production quotas and pumping all the oil they can. It lags behind non-OPEC oil producers in exploration and oilfield development. And it has seemed helpless to rein in prices that soared to record highs over $50 a barrel last week. 
 Never mind all that. OPEC still has the whip hand in the world energy market, and Ali al-Naimi, the oil minister of Saudi Arabia and the principal figure in the cartel, intends to keep it. 
 The key is oil reserves. In a nutshell, OPEC has plenty, while the rest of the world, including the United States, is quickly pumping itself dry. 
 Far from waning, then, OPEC's hold on the oil market, and thus on the world economy, looks set to grow sharply in the coming decades, with profound economic and geopolitical implications. 
 As alternative sources of oil dwindle, so, too, will the United States' room to maneuver in dealing with OPEC, and especially with the five states around the Persian Gulf that are richest in reserves: Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Iraq and Iran. 
 The United States will find it steadily more difficult and complex to either engage or disengage in the Middle East, in pursuit of energy independence or political stability or the war on terrorism, because oil from the gulf will become steadily more indispensable to the American economy, barring a wholesale change in the way the nation uses energy. 
 Those five gulf countries possess 61 percent of the world's proven oil reserves, according to the latest statistics compiled by BP. Add the other six members of OPEC, and the cartel controls three-quarters of the world's 1.15 trillion barrels of reserves. 
 As the rest of the world has stepped up oil production to meet soaring demand this year, it has been exhausting reserves much faster than OPEC has. At present rates of production, the crude oil that has already been found outside OPEC will be consumed by about 2030 or so, when the five gulf countries will still have billions of barrels. Of course, production levels change, and some new oil is found each year to replace what is used -- but lately, not very much.
 Multinational oil companies are already worried. ''As the absolute amount of energy provided by OPEC countries has grown, as well as OPEC's share of the total, voices of concern over security of supply have increased,'' said Lee R. Raymond, the chief executive of ExxonMobil, speaking at an industry conference in Vienna last month. ''It will be difficult to calm these concerns.''
 The oil companies want desperately to regain access to the gulf's reserves, but they have been locked out for decades. Many OPEC countries have state oil monopolies, most notably Aramco in Saudi Arabia, which the country nationalized in 1980, and the five reserve-rich gulf nations all sharply restrict foreign investment and influence over their oil industries. (So do many other oil producers, like Mexico and Brazil.) 
 The Persian Gulf nations are under mounting pressure to let the Western oil giants back in; Mr. Naimi described it last week as an ''onslaught'' against Aramco and other states' monopolies. But his government has given no sign that it is contemplating any significant opening. 
 ''Oil companies are in a very difficult position,'' said Ann-Louise Hittle, the head of macro oil research at Wood Mackenzie, an Edinburgh-based consultant. ''The best they can do is to push into non-OPEC countries and be poised for when OPEC invites them in. It's apparent there's a logjam to access new reserves.''
 This explains Western companies' push to invest in Russia, despite President Vladimir Putin's moves to return control of the energy sector to the central government. 
 THE rise in Russian oil production in the last decade has been stunning, and has helped moderate prices even as the world economy has been growing and demand has exploded in China, India and elsewhere. Russia's output of 8.8 million barrels a day, up by more than one-third from its post-Soviet low in the 1990's, now rivals Saudi Arabia as the world's top producer. Among the latest investment moves there, ConocoPhillips said last Wednesday that it would pay $2 billion for a 7.59 percent stake in Lukoil, Russia's second-largest oil company. 
 But the respite offered by Russia -- and by new oil fields in neighboring Kazakhstan, the only big finds anywhere in the world in recent years -- may prove short-lived. PFC Energy, a consulting firm, estimates that production in the former Soviet Union will peak at 14 million barrels a day around 2012 and then decline. 
 So the oil industry must inevitably turn to OPEC, according to Robert Ebel, the head of the energy program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. 
 ''Access to reserves, that's the name of the game,'' Mr. Ebel said. ''You want to go where the reserves are. So you go to Russia, for example, but you always come back to the Persian Gulf, because that's where the reserves are.''
 The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has come a long way since its militant ''oil weapon'' days, when conflicts in the Middle East led to embargoes and energy crises in 1973 and 1979 that threw economies around the world into spirals of inflation and recession. 
 Today, OPEC is all about stability, and tries to keep prices within a target range: not so low that its members starve for income, nor so high that the world economy suffers or consumers turn to alternatives like coal. Over the last decade and a half, OPEC has largely succeeded, providing a solid base for global economic growth. 
 Now, though, the world is drinking oil like never before, and prices have risen far above its target range. Demand is forecast to increase by half over the next two decades, reaching some 115 million barrels a day by 2025, and many analysts say that OPEC has been slow to invest in new production to meet the demand. According to PFC Energy estimates, OPEC now pumps 8 billion more barrels of oil each year than it finds and develops. 
 That means that prices are likely to stay fairly high for a long time, according to Kevin Norrish, an analyst at Barclays Capital. Futures contracts for oil to be delivered in 2010 are trading now at $34.30 a barrel, or one-third more than when they began trading in March; that fact ''is telling oil companies and OPEC that large amounts of investments are required,'' Mr. Norrish said. ''It's a signal of underinvestment over the past decade. It's not a short-term issue.''
 Certainly, not all OPEC members keep out foreign investors; some, like Nigeria and Algeria, actively seek them. Iran allows some limited partnerships with foreign oil companies, but American companies cannot do business there because of sanctions imposed by the United States. Sanctions against Libya were lifted recently and the country is now negotiating the return of American companies.
 Even Saudi Arabia has tentatively opened one door, granting Royal Dutch/Shell and the French company Total permission to prospect for natural gas. But so far, Saudi oil is still out of bounds, and the energy giants say there aren't many other good places left to look. 
 ''The time for large and easy discoveries is clearly behind us,'' said Thierry Desmarest, the chairman and chief executive of Total, at the Vienna conference. ''By far the largest share of undeveloped reserves remain under state control, and in large part open only to national oil companies. The opening of these reserves is urgent.''

 Proven reserves certainly exist to last for decades and more oil is found every month. But big new finds of readily recoverable crude have become increasingly rare, and experts believe that there are no longer very many left to make outside the Middle East.
 A useful, if imperfect, comparative gauge of how quickly each producing nation is exhausting its oil resources can be created by calculating how long the country's proven reserves would last at current rates of production. The chart shows figures for the end of 2003.
 By this measure, it is clear that in the absence of alternative energy sources, the world will depend more and more on the OPEC nations for oil as the decades pass.

Graph tracks length of time in years oil reserves will last at current level of production in Non-OPEC countries and OPEC countries.

(Sources by Energy Information Administration, British Petroleum; James Bronzan/The New York Times)(pg. 3)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ali al-Naimi, the Saudi oil minister. (Photo by Heinz-Peter Bader/Reuters)(pg. 1)
For now, OPEC is supplying only a minority of the world's oil . . . -- Russia has rapidly expanded production from its oil fields, like this one in Kaliningrad, and it now rivals Saudi Arabia as the leading producer of oil. (Photo by Martin Roemers)
 . . . but its immense reserves still dwarf other sources. -- Three-fifths of the world's proven reserves are controlled by five OPEC nations on the Persian Gulf, including Saudi Arabia, which has large refineries near Dhahran. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)Chart: ''OPEC's Inevitability''How long will the world's oil supplies last? It is notoriously difficult to say with any confidence, because future economic swings are unpredictable, and so are the effects of technological innovation on both supply and demand. Experts have trouble forecasting supply and demand reliably even a few years out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARTELS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); STATISTICS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); WHOLESALERS (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%); TERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (57%); ALMUDON (KUW) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (58%) INDIAN OCEAN (92%) GULF STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); AUSTRIA (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



58 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A.'s Budget: Nonstop Need for More

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority is projecting budget deficits of more than a billion dollars in the coming years, and another round of fare increases and service cuts appears imminent. But now transportation authority officials want to spend even more money to continue to maintain the system, and even the authority's critics are hard-pressed to fault them for it. 
 The trouble is, no one has quite figured out how to pay for the improvements.
 ''I don't think there's any question that more money is needed for the system's operation and for upkeep and maintenance,'' said Doug Turetsky, a spokesman for the Independent Budget Office, a nonpartisan city agency, on the financial quandary. ''The question is where those resources are going to come from.'' 
 On the authority's shopping list: more than $17 billion in system upgrades and replacement of old equipment, $500 million for security improvements and several billion dollars for expansion projects, including the building of the first phase of the long-awaited Second Avenue subway and connecting the Long Island Rail Road with Grand Central Terminal. 
 It is all part of the authority's proposed five-year capital improvement plan for 2005 to 2009, sent to Albany last week for approval. Making his priority clear, Peter S. Kalikow, the authority's chairman, said he would be willing to sacrifice the highly publicized expansion projects if it meant protecting the $17 billion for the existing system. 
 ''This is the minimum number that we will accept,'' he said Wednesday at the authority's board meeting. ''It's the minimum number to keep the system running.''
 It will be up to lawmakers, however, to wrangle over how to come up with the money, or if they even can. 
 The problem is a familiar one for the authority. Similar hand-wringing accompanied the passage of the authority's current $19 billion capital program for 2000 to 2004. In the end, much of that program was paid for by bonds, repaid out of riders' fares. But that has left the authority facing a mountain of debt. Payments coming due on that debt are at the core of the authority's struggle with its operating budget. 
 As Gene Russianoff, a staff lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign, a transit advocacy group, put it, ''Their credit card is maxed out.'' 
 Authority officials have made clear that issuing more debt, paid for by riders, would be extremely difficult, if not impossible.
 ''The great debate will be how this need is met,'' said Katherine N. Lapp, the authority's executive director, when she unveiled the proposed program in July.
 To finance the upkeep of the existing system, the authority said it can obtain about $5.9 billion on its own, consisting of $4.5 billion from the federal government and $1.4 billion in investment income and real estate sales. Such sales could include the air rights over the Hudson Yards, the rail yards which are coveted by the city for building a stadium and expanding the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. That leaves an $11.3 billion shortfall. 
 The authority is hoping to obtain federal financing for the $500 million planned for security upgrades. It is also counting on 50 percent matching funds from the federal government for the Second Avenue subway and the Long Island rail connection with Grand Central. But some transit observers have warned that the authority's expectations for federal help on those projects are overly optimistic.
 ''Every dime that doesn't come from the feds has to come locally,'' Mr. Russianoff said. ''The question is from where.''
 Many have been pressuring Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. George E. Pataki to rescue the authority.
 Governor Pataki has gotten the most blistering criticism.. State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi and others have criticized the governor for reducing the state's contribution to the authority's capital program to zero. But some state officials defend the governor and contend that the state has actually provided the authority with hundreds of millions of dollars in new money to finance the issuance of bonds for the capital program.
 ''No governor has done more to support our transit system than Governor Pataki, and transit service has never been higher,'' said Lynn Rasic, a spokeswoman for Mr. Pataki. ''The M.T.A. has put forward a formidable plan and one that requires formidable resources. We are looking at the M.T.A.'s plan in the context of the entire state's five-year transportation plan, and we will be reviewing a variety of options with the city and M.T.A. to help support the transit system.''
 Reconciling opposing views is difficult, but Mr. Russianoff, whose organization has accused Mr. Pataki of failing to contribute to the rebuilding program, said that regardless of opinions, the riders have been saddled with paying for most of it.
 Transportation advocates have called for politicians to come up with new taxes or tolls dedicated to paying for transit needs, although the fact that Mayor Bloomberg is up for re-election next year could make that challenging.
 Both the city and the state are also said to be facing shortfalls. 
 ''Albany is facing a gap of some $6 billion next year,'' said Mr. Turetsky, of the budget office. ''Likewise, New York City faces a gap of more than $3 billion for the upcoming fiscal year. There doesn't seem to be much of a drum beat either in Albany or City Hall for raising new taxes, regardless of purpose.''
 But political leaders have also recognized that the city's transportation network is a key to the economic vitality of the region. 
 One idea, floated last week by the authority's chief financial officer, Stephen Kessler, is the possibility of issuing bonds but having the state cover the resulting debt service, so it would not add to the authority's existing burden.
 Mr. Kalikow offered assurances last week that a solution would eventually be worked out.
 ''We would not have proposed a program if we didn't think there was a correct way to fund it,'' he said. But he refused to elaborate with specifics.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Transit officials seek more than $17 billion for upgrades and equipment replacement over the next five years. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%) Transit Systems; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Restoration and Rehabilitation; Transit Systems

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: Michael Luo; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



59 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Good Vibrations, Upscale Division

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
MELINDA HACKETT, an artist, peered at the streamlined, stone-colored object at Myla, a boutique on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. ''It's like a Brancusi,'' she murmured, turning for a second opinion to Diana Oswald, a friend. 
 Ms. Oswald regarded the item quizzically. ''It looks like a shoe form,'' she said, straining for a closer look. ''On second thought, I'd put it under a plexiglass box with a little light on it,'' she said. ''That way someone would think I bought it as a sculpture. It's black; that makes it a little bit forbidden.'' 
 Apt, perhaps, since the article in question, a nine-inch wedge of resin shaped like a hipbone, made by Tom Dixon, the British design guru, was in fact a vibrator. As remote in appearance from the ''marital aids'' hawked at pornography shops as an Eames chair is from a straw stool, it was displayed under glass.
 The vibrator is one of the saucier attractions at Myla, the first American outpost of a British-owned chain of sex shops, which opened last Wednesday at 69th Street and Madison Avenue, across the street from Cartier and in a neighborhood with Loro Piana cashmeres and the Dolce & Gabbana boutique. The vibrator is among an expanding assortment of designer sex accessories gingerly making their way into sophisticated boutiques. Novelties bearing coy names like Bone and Shag Bag, they come in fucchsia, celadon and stone -- and look discreet enough to exhibit on a dressing table. 
 There is the Mojo, a breast-shaped massager by Marc Newson, the designer of the Lever House restaurant; the rechargeable Pebble by Mari-Ruth Oda, a stone-shaped plastic vibrator ergonomically contoured to fit in the palm of one's hand; the Wrapped G-Spot, offered in cobalt or clear glass; and the Silver Bullet, a two-and-a-quarter-inch gleaming vibrator offered by Toys in Babeland, a store and Web site selling sex toys for women. 
 Many of these gadgets are tailored for an increasingly design-savvy public, and are chic (if bawdy) expressions of what scholars of consumerism have called the aesthetization of everyday life. Juliet B. Schor, an economist and sociologist at Boston College and the author of ''The Overspent American'' (Basic Books, 1998), said: ''When our homes and bathrooms have become temples of design and status-seeking, and when people upscale their sheets, their toilets and their toothbrushes, should we be surprised that they upscale their sex toys, too? Probably not.''
 Nor is it surprising that the designers of erotic playthings have focused on aesthetics, trying to remove at least some of the stigma of conventional sex toys: that they are vulgar, ugly and unnatural. A few, like Mr. Dixon, the head of design at Habitat, seem to view the overhaul of the standard-issue vibrator as the ultimate design challenge. ''I was struck by how cluttered and trite most of those objects were,'' said Mr. Dixon, who is known for his quirky S-curved chairs. ''They were appalling in every way, in their engineering, their packaging, their marketing and even their literature. Here, I told myself, is visibly an opportunity.'' 
 At the same time merchants see a chance to attract shoppers with tastes as rich as their pocketbooks. ''If you're wearing Jimmy Choo shoes and carrying a Prada bag or using an orange press designed by Philippe Starck,'' said Charlotte Semler, an owner of Myla, ''why on earth would you want a conventional sex toy? It just doesn't fit.'' 
 ''There definitely is a market for luxury upscale sex merchandise,'' said Aimee Rabinowitz, the creative director of the gift shop at the Delano hotel in Miami Beach. There, items like a crystal-studded whip ($350) and the Mile-High Travel Kit, a pouch containing silk pasties, a feather and lubricant ($295), are showcased among cherry wood fixtures and lemon-colored walls in a room designed by Mr. Starck. 
 A handful of like-minded retailers display their wares in spotless, sumptuous settings, alongside silk camisoles, pashmina shawls, aromatic candles and mink-lined mules. ''A luxurious context is what has been missing in design related to this industry,'' said Campion Platt, the architect and an owner of the Mercer hotel in SoHo. Mr. Platt is in talks with Myla to gussy up the 400-square-foot boutique, the first sex shop on the Upper East Side. 
 The store's redesign, he said, will be different from the pink-and-white boudoir-like setting of Agent Provocateur, the British purveyor of racy lingerie, which has an outpost on Mercer Street in SoHo, and from such depots of kitsch as Toys in Babeland Mr. Platt is thinking of adding a divan and glass jewelry cases. ''I want it to look more residential than commercial,'' he said, ''so that you can imagine a kind of grand dressing room.''
 That concept is not novel to Nathalie Rykiel, a daughter of the French designer Sonia Rykiel and the owner of Rykiel Woman, several luxuriously appointed sex shops in Paris, London and Moscow. Following Ms. Rykiel's dictum that ''the decor of a sex shop must be as beautiful as the toys,'' her boutiques, all dusky lighting, are stocked with cashmere robes, teddy bears and vibrators shaped like lipstick tubes, each packaged in its own tiny black silk bag.
 The idea is to make shoppers ''feel unguilty and even cool about what they are doing,'' Ms. Rykiel said.
 The strategy has met with some success. In Paris young women display their black silk bags like trophies, ''just to show they have been in the shop,'' Ms. Rykiel said. She is scouting locations for a store in Manhattan. ''Finally New Yorkers are ready,'' she said.
 Maybe. There are indications that Americans' squeamishness toward sex toys is subsiding, thanks in part to the notorious episode of ''Sex and the City'' in which Charlotte becomes hooked on her vibrator. 
 Over the past five years sales of sex toys have increased 25 percent annually, according to Adult Video News, a trade magazine for the adult entertainment industry. 
 Nevertheless, many merchants balk at carrying sex accessories, no matter how fancy. ''There is a resistance,'' said Jeffrey Brown, whose erotic travel kits are sold on his Web site, www.houseofgroove.com, and at W hotels. It has been a struggle, he said, trying to place his Shag Bag, a mink condom wallet, in department stores. 
 Many shoppers, however enlightened they claim to be, can scarcely bring themselves to discuss erotic playthings, much less actually touch them. Hilary Dick, a Manhattan social figure, was typical. Though she had stopped in at Myla to buy a cotton nightie and check out the toys, she recoiled at being photographed anywhere in their vicinity. ''My husband would never forgive me,'' she said, blushing from her hairline to her collar. 
 Despite such reservations, items like Myla's Tom Dixon vibrator have found takers, and even spawned a waiting list of about 500 people, Ms. Semler said. The price, about $375, is no hurdle, she said. ''The higher the ticket, the faster it sells.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: UH, THAT'S MY ARTWORK -- Myla sells high-end sex toys, above. Left, women at the store's Upper East Side opening on Sept. 22. (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) (Photo by Christopher Smith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); PORNOGRAPHY (72%); ERGONOMICS (68%); RESTAURANTS (67%); WRITERS (60%) Sex

ORGANIZATION: Myla (Sex Toy Boutique)

PERSON: Ruth La Ferla

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



60 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: In Chicago's West Loop, Real Estate Profits Do Grow on Trees

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
WHEN Mayor Richard M. Daley began a tree-planting campaign after winning his first election in 1989, many people here snickered. The mayor of Chicago -- a brass-knuckles town if there ever was one -- is a tree-hugger?
 But the snickers have slowly turned into a growing chorus of cheers as tree plantings, elaborate landscaping and streetscape designs have become the catalyst for neighborhood revitalization. 
 One urban area targeted by Mayor Daley wasn't even really a neighborhood, but it is today, and a hot one at that. The West Loop, just west of Chicago's famous Loop, was one of the first areas outside of the immediate downtown area to receive the mayor's landscaping treatment. The once-flourishing industrial area had become rather seedy. Empty warehouses and litter-strewn lots dominated vast tracts of land. A few pioneering artists moved in, and then not much happened. But that all changed when Mayor Daley directed his staff to spruce up the landscape dramatically. 
 One of the streets, Randolph, was turned into a Parisian-style boulevard. Two median strips were built and landscaped with trees, flowers and shrubs, creating a central artery for traffic and curb lanes for accessing local businesses. Streetscaping came next, with new lighting, sidewalk planters and public art. Not long after that, some of the best restaurants in town sprang up in what had been windowless, metal-gated buildings. Loft conversions began in earnest, with new construction coming later.
 In 1998, Yuval Degani, who had been living in a 1,500-square-foot loft above a meatpacking company where the rent was $575 a month, bought a six-unit building that dates back to the 1890's for $363,000. Over the years, he spent about $275,000 on the building and converted three units into one ultramodern 3,500-square-foot, three-floor, six-bedroom condo for himself and his wife, who at the time was an anesthesiology resident at the University of Illinois at Chicago. 
 ''When I bought this building,'' he said, ''there was a sign out front that said, 'No Cruising.' I'm from Israel, so I didn't know what that meant. I had to ask.'' Cruising, of course, was a euphemism for prostitution, and according to Mr. Degani, the sign wasn't much of a deterrent. 
 In the course of looking for this property, Mr. Degani got a real estate license to handle the transaction himself. Next thing he knew, he was handling real estate deals in the neighborhood for friends, which ultimately led to Dream Town Realty, a residential brokerage and development firm he started with a partner. They initially specialized in the West Loop, but now have business all over the city. Mr. Degani expects to sell his West Loop building in the near future, and will ask about $1.2 million.
 ''Development here probably would have happened eventually,'' Mr. Degani said. ''But the city's investment was a huge signal to the community.''
 In 1996, when Randolph Street was under construction, there were 76 residential units sold in the entire West Loop, a large geographic area. Total volume was just over $14 million, with an average selling price of $187,662. By 2003, 960 residential units were sold, averaging $306,043 each, for a total volume just shy of $300 million, according to Dream Town. In 2004, the average price has so far climbed to $327,995.
 ''This used to be a desolate street,'' said Janet Attarian, project director of the city's Streetscape and Urban Design program, while giving a tour of Randolph. ''The mayor really believes that the physical environment has a big impact on economics, the culture and perception of the city.'' 
 Ms. Attarian said that it had been an evolving process, and that some of the earliest projects would not be repeated today. For instance, Madison, another West Loop street, had one of the very first medians. But it was far too narrow to have much of an impact on the character of the street and is difficult to maintain. 
 The city also had to learn the hard way about plants and trees that can sustain themselves through harsh Chicago winters while being pelted with rock salt. 
 Under Mayor Daley, the city of Chicago has built and landscaped 70 miles of medians, refurbished 80 miles of streetscapes and planted more than 400,000 trees. While only a fraction of the budget, these green initiatives have paid dividends for the city.
 ''I think Mayor Daley is appreciated for taking the city -- which was extremely utilitarian looking when I moved here in the late 1970's -- and spreading this aesthetic sensibility throughout the neighborhoods,'' said Larry Bennett, a political science professor at DePaul University, who specializes in redevelopment issues.
 Chris Beukenkamp and Rebecca Coke recently married and bought a place in the West Loop. Ms. Coke had rented an apartment in the West Loop before she and Mr. Beukenkamp found a house in a newer development constructed around the skeleton of a parking garage that had served the old Chicago Daily News building (which was converted to condos).
 In an urban interpretation of the cul-de-sac, the houses line both sides of a walkway that dead-ends into the building. The old parking garage beams connect the free-standing houses, soaring overhead between the homes and over the landscaped central walkway, which leads to the street.
 The couple fell in love with one of the 2,400-square-foot, four-story houses -- with its 18-foot ceilings, interesting angles and rooftop deck -- which they bought in December for $390,000. The first-floor entrance leads to the house's guest space, with the kitchen and dining area on the second floor, living area and bedroom on the third floor, and an office and rooftop access on the fourth floor. They liked it much better than the other places they saw, which all had the same floor plan. ''You could close your eyes, walk into a place and know exactly where everything is,'' Mr. Beukenkamp said. ''We wanted to be here. The best restaurants are within walking distance. There are three parks nearby. There's even a Starbucks now.''
 Ms. Coke said she likes the changes in the West Loop, as do her friends. ''I think our generation has the right mentality for living in the city,'' Ms. Coke said. ''We grew up in the suburbs and want something else. I want to make a commitment to stay even after we have a family.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ALL SPRUCED UP -- Median strips landscaped with trees have been added to West Loop streets. Chris Beukenkamp and Rebecca Coke (left) recently bought a house in the revitalized neighborhood. Yuval Degani says the urban renewal program has increased his building's value. (Photographs by Kenneth Dickerman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (83%); CITY LIFE (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); ANESTHESIOLOGY (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); RESTAURANTS (65%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (61%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%); PROSTITUTION (50%) Trees and Shrubs; Area Planning and Renewal

PERSON: Lisa Chamberlain; Richard M (Mayor) Daley

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (95%) ILLINOIS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



61 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2323 words

HEADLINE: Digging Out Along the Delaware

BYLINE: By JEREMY PEARCE and JESSICA BRUDER

DATELINE: HARMONY TOWNSHIP 

 BODY:
ON rainy days, as residents along the swollen Delaware River have come to see, the flotsam of life consists of sodden luggage, wrecked bicycles, logs, liberated lawn chairs, propane tanks, porches and other bits of backyard debris.
 But when the Delaware flooded two weeks ago -- fed by the last gasps of Hurricane Ivan to become the river's most destructive flood in eight years and a disaster comparable to its historic flooding in 1955 -- it washed in other and more surprising arrivals.
 Portable toilets popped up across the landscape on both the New Jersey and Pennsylvania sides, the result of swamped municipal sewage systems unable to handle the surge. River waters crested at more than 23 feet in Trenton, poured into the State House and closed state offices. To the north, the cascade passing through Phillipsburg was the third-highest measured in the past 100 years and carried a house beneath the Phillipsburg-Easton bridges. Damages to buildings and roads on both states' banks was extensive, leading to pleas for immediate federal disaster relief. 
 Even so, most surprising has been the reaction -- or lack of it -- by federal officials.
 Only a day into the flooding, on Sept. 19, Pennsylvania was granted aid by the Federal Emergency Management Agency to help in the recovery of 46 of its counties, spanning from the Delaware to the state's western edges, which suffered an estimated $180 million in property damage. Accordingly, on Sept. 20, Governor McGreevey also appealed to the federal agency to provide relief for four counties in New Jersey -- Mercer, Warren, Sussex and Hunterdon -- and last week was still waiting for a reply. Total damages in New Jersey have reached $33 million, according to an assessment by the state Office of Emergency Management.
 ''It's very infuriating and distressing down here,'' said Bonnie-Marie A. Dakis, the deputy municipal clerk for Harmony Township, in Warren County, a town where waters deluged 148 houses and residents were still mopping up in recent days.
 Continuing rain falling throughout the week did not help matters. Ruined mattresses, furniture and other items sat in piles before the houses on Goat Farm Road, where someone had posted a sign, ''We don't need sightseers, we need workers.''
 ''It is not a time for politics or games,'' said Ms. Dakis, giving voice to the accusation of political preferences in play for Pennsylvania, considered a crucial swing state in the presidential election next month, heard along the river. ''These people on this side are in the same predicament.''
 For some residents and state officials, mostly Democrats, the assumption has been that the Bush administration is turning a cold shoulder to New Jersey's disaster petition because the heavily Democratic state -- recent polls notwithstanding -- is expected to go for John Kerry.
 But Lea Anne McBride, a spokeswoman for the emergency management agency in Washington, said the state's request was ''in process'' and had not necessarily been denied. With the descent of Hurricane Jeanne on Florida last week, the agency has been particularly hard-pressed with disaster petitions, Ms. McBride added. Last week, the Bush administration proposed an additional $7.1 billion to rebuild Florida -- also considered a key state in the election -- on top of earlier aid requests for slightly more than $5 billion.
 ''We have to do our preliminary damage assessment for New Jersey,'' said Ms. McBride. ''We are working through the request and we certainly try to turn these around.''
 Yet others still interpret partisan motivations behind the delay.
 ''Why does this not surprise me?'' asked State Senator Shirley K. Turner, a Democrat of Mercer County, whose constituency includes Trenton and Ewing Township, two places where floodwaters caused some residents to evacuate their houses.
 ''It is the political season,'' said Ms. Turner, nearly coining a slogan with her words ''Pennsylvania is a battleground state. We haven't gotten satisfaction and I guess New Jersey will have to wait.'' 
 Assemblyman W. Reed Gusciora, a Democrat of Trenton, pushed the point even further, likening the lack of disaster aid to the apportionment of Homeland Security money. Mr. Gusciora said that New Jersey had ranked ''eighth or ninth'' in the nation for the amount of federal dollars it receives for homeland security, even with its proximity to the terrorist target of New York City.
 ''If the Bush administration will play with Homeland Security aid,'' he said, ''then it's likely they'll play with who gets the disaster aid.''
 The state's two Democratic senators Jon S. Corzine and Frank R. Lautenberg, have written to President Bush requesting federal aid to help pay for the flood. Governor McGreevey declared a state of emergency and sent his own letter to Mr. Bush, asking for ''disaster unemployment assistance, crisis counseling, public assistance, hazard mitigation and Small Business Administration disaster loans'' to resuscitate the four riverside counties.
 Yet the governor stopped short of mentioning political motivations. Juliet Johnson, a spokeswoman for Mr. McGreevey, had only this to say about the situation: ''As of now, FEMA has not responded. Certainly, the governor is disappointed. There are families out there struggling to get back on their feet.'' 
 In the flooded counties, Republicans have resisted the notion of partisanship, and suggested that the McGreevey administration's tardiness in recognizing the disaster and applying to federal officials were possible reasons for the emergency agency's delayed response.
 Asked if questions of national politics were blocking relief, state Senator Leonard Lance, a Republican of Hunterdon County, said: ''I hope not. There should be absolutely no partisanship about this issue.'' 
 Then, noting that rural Sussex, Warren and Hunterdon counties tend to be known as Republican strongholds in an overwhelmingly Democratic state, Mr. Lance added, ''We expect the federal government to grant our request as quickly as possible.''
 Another Republican, Assemblyman Guy R. Gregg of Flanders, in Sussex County, blamed Mr. McGreevey for being ''somewhat slow on the uptake'' in reporting the urgency of the flood.
 ''I was told,'' said Mr. Gregg, ''that, as a state, we were not as expeditious as Pennsylvania in our application. But it's not a question of what the decision will be -- FEMA will respond. It does appear that New Jersey could have gotten a faster dollar.''
 And Assemblywoman Allison Littell McHose, a Republican of Sparta, also in Sussex County, said the federal response had been appropriate and that ''when you measure the damages, Pennsylvania got harder hit and had more more damages.''
 Ms. McHose concluded: ''I don't see a political aspect to this situation.''
 Nor did the rising waters of the Delaware. In New Jersey, the flood damaged 844 houses and 47 apartments, for an estimated loss of $18.7 million, according to the state's figures. Damages to roads were estimated to be about $7.5 million, in addition to effects on utilities, parks and public buildings. No lives were reported lost on either side of the river.
 Warren County sustained the most widespread destruction of property and farm crops. Sussex County, where the Delaware's riverbanks are for the most part lightly populated, reported the least. And yet, in Hunterdon County, the downtown section of Lambertville was awash in floodwaters, as was New Hope, Pa., right across the river. Both towns are enclaves for restaurants, shops and art galleries, some of which were still closed last week after the waters receded.
 In Phillipsburg, situated near the point where Interstate 78 crosses the Delaware, the river shut down a sewage pumping station for two days and caused $100,000 in damages to a youth recreation building, said Mayor Harry L. Wyant. But for the most part Phillipsburg was protected by several steep stone bluffs on which the town was built.
 ''We were somewhat spared,'' acknowledged Mr. Wyant. ''But below and above us, the towns were not as fortunate. We see all the criteria in place for federal aid.''
 To the north in Belvidere, another significant river town, the Delaware's rising was joined by the flooding of the Pequest River, which runs through the town to join the larger river. Mayor Charles J. Liegel, Sr., said that 10 houses were badly damaged, adding that about 20 other houses had flooded basements and that the effects were more dire than the disaster of 1996, when ice floes holding back the flow of the Delaware River caused another memorable flood.
 ''We have big-rig trouble out here,'' said Mr. Wyant, before pausing. ''I'm trying to get my people the help they deserve, and FEMA says they can't do anything without a decree from above. I'd hate to think that politics is deciding this.''
 Nearby Belvidere, the river also overran parts of Knowlton and White Township. But at no point along the 100 miles or so of flooding were conditions more desperate than in Harmony Township, where last week there was a marked discord among the more than 140 houses drying out.
 Inner spoils of the houses were jumbled in piles by the roadsides, as residents living next to the river reported near-total losses. Ms. Dakis, the town's deputy clerk, and others are seeking federal aid to help pay for temporary housing as well as low-interest loans to begin repairs, although some residents also have private flood insurance. Fire trucks from the local department traveled from house to house to pump out silt-filled basements.
 On River Edge Lane, the houses were being gutted of their walls and insulation and the trees still carried the flood's high-water mark. Most dwellings bore symbols spray-painted on exterior walls -- the sign that state police had navigated the street by boat and checked for stranded survivors. Ms. Dakis noted that 450 people in Harmony were displaced by the storm.
 At the home of Nadine Shandor, a mental-health counselor, the waters stood at six feet in the living room. Ms. Shandor's back deck floated away and now leans against the house next door. She intends to move her house farther away from the riverbank. 
 ''My propane tank ended up in Burlington County,'' she said, before declaring, ''We're staying. The flood made everyone's resolve that much stronger.''
 Along Harmony's Goat Farm Road, the devastation was also in view. Stephanie Wydner, a retired teacher, was piling up furniture that she said had been handed down in her family. In the aftermath of the flood, Ms. Wydner discovered fish swimming in the basement. The river's waters even carried away a steel plate covering the valve of her drinking well.
 '' ''This was the first time in my life that I've seen all of these men, tough and strong guys, cry,'' she said.
 Solutions for taming the Delaware's flooding have seemed about as frustrating. A federal proposal to dam the upper reaches of the river -- the so-called Tocks Island project -- was dropped in the early 1990's, after environmentalists pointed out that it would corrupt Philadelphia's supply of drinking water. While the project was intended to control the river, it would probably have allowed salt water from Delaware Bay to advance upriver, fouling the city's water intakes. As it now flows, the Delaware's main stem runs unfettered and without dams for 330 miles, from Hancock, N.Y., dividing and defining New Jersey and Pennsylvania before rolling into the sea.
 One environmentalist, Jeff Tittel, director of the Sierra Club of New Jersey, has advocated a more complex approach to lessening flood damages. While acknowledging the difficulties, Mr. Tittek argues for moving houses and buildings back from the river, removing outdated dams on tributaries and pursuing open-space policies statewide. Open spaces and wetlands, he reasons, are areas that allow rainwater to percolate down into the soil, rather than to rapidly run off and raise a swelling river.
 ''Even now, we're still building in floodplains,'' said Mr. Tittel, who observed the recent flood from a lawn chair at his house in Lambertville. ''Even now, we're building parking lots on stream banks, creating things that make waters run off faster and do more damage.''
 Maya van Rossum, an environmental lawyer and the Delaware Riverkeeper -- a sort of personification of public efforts of preserve the purity of the river -- has taken Mr. Tittel's suggestions and run with them.
 ''Every time we have a flood like this one,'' said Ms. van Rossum, who is based in Washington Crossing, Pa., ''there's a lesson to be learned.'' 
 She is pushing for voluntary buyouts of private property along the Delaware and a permanent restoration of the river's basin, a notion seen by many homeowners and taxpayers as farfetched. Still, the Riverkeeper is not easily contained.
 ''After every flood event, we have to invest for people to rebuild,'' Ms. van Rossum explained. ''The public is literally buying the same houses many times over. That's an expensive undertaking in itself, when you are also paying to repair roads and bridges and supply emergency services.''
 She looked at it this way: ''All of the options are expensive. We want to move people out of harm's way and keep people out of harm in the future. Buying their property is the best way.''
 Given the regularity of flooding on the Delaware, the question remains as to why people continue to build so close to the river. Outside of Belvidere last week, Jeffrey Bugge methodically raked gravel and jetsam from the grounds around King Cole Grove, a restaurant and unofficial landmark on Route 46 that has been run by his family since the 1920's.
 The building sits on a bluff above the river, with views of rocks, greenery and small islands upstream and down. Mr. Bugge has lived through many spates, many floods, including the latest, which closed the restaurant for a week.
 ''It's a beautiful site,'' he said, returning to his raking. ''This is the price of being here.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Pat Marshall, a rescue worker, sought higher ground for Oprah Hibbert, center, and her mother, Luz, in the Island section of Trenton during the recent flood. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 1)
 Flood waters closed the bridge at Washington's Crossing, above left, while in Harmony Township, residents removed items from a home submerged under seven feet of water, left, and did what they could to dry their homes and possessions. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick and Nancy Wegard, left, for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); POLITICS (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%); VOTERS & VOTING (63%); PETITIONS (60%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Rain; Hurricane Ivan; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Floods; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (82%) Federal Emergency Management Agency

PERSON: Jeremy Pearce; Jessica Bruder; James E Mcgreevey

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey; Pennsylvania; Delaware River

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



62 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Left High and Dry After the Flood

BYLINE: By JESSICA BRUDER

DATELINE: HARMONY TOWNSHIP 

 BODY:
WHEN Kyle Kels returned home to Hutchinson River Road two days after the floodwaters pushed him out, fish were swimming in his backyard. Water had crept six feet up the walls of his two-story stone cottage, and the entire first floor was still covered in a thick carpet of muck and silt the Delaware River left behind. 
 Like most of his neighbors, the 37-year-old Mr. Kels had evacuated the area with his family on the afternoon of Saturday, Sept. 18, after lugging everything he could carry -- clothing, photographs, small pieces of furniture -- to the second floor of his house. When he came back on Monday, his street looked like the victim of a child's tantrum. A dock had been flung up on someone's lawn. Five-hundred-gallon propane tanks with concrete anchors had sailed away like toy boats. A wooden picnic table was perched atop a gazebo. 
 Just two weeks ago, the remnants of Hurricane Ivan wrung out torrents of rain over the Northeast, causing the Delaware River to spill into parts of New Jersey and Pennsylvania. In New Jersey, the flood damage was spread across Warren, Hunterdon, Mercer and Sussex counties and totaled an estimated $33 million. 
 Though the Federal Emergency Management Agency declared a disaster area in parts of Pennsylvania a few days after the deluge, flood victims in New Jersey are still waiting to hear if the state's request for aid will be granted. In Harmony Township, situated 55 miles northwest of Trenton, most riverside residents were covered by flood insurance, but they still hope that supplementary aid from the federal government, which could include direct grants and low-interest loans, will help them get through temporary shortfalls and prepare for the future. 
 For Mr. Kels, a self-employed contractor, his wife, Janis Kels, 35, and their four young children, the emergency agency may be the only hope. The biggest shock of their homecoming was neither the fish in the backyard nor the filth on the floor. It came, rather, when the Kels called their flood insurance company to report the damage. 
 ''We called and they said that our policy expired,'' Ms. Kels said. ''I thought it was an error. We refinanced back in May, and the mortgage company screwed up somehow and canceled our flood insurance because they said it wasn't in the flood zone. They thought we were in Lopatcong.'' 
 Now, in addition to repairing more than $75,000 in damages to their home, the Kels must retain a lawyer. Add to that the expense of renting an apartment 10 minutes away, in Washington Township, where the Kels have been living, and the picture dims further. 
 Mr. Kels' coping strategy is based in construction. He has been working long hours with an army of friends and neighbors to gut his first floor and replace every inch of sheet rock and insulation. At night, he sleeps in a makeshift arrangement on the second floor -- his master bedroom on the first floor is now gone -- to discourage possible looters. If he toils fast enough, he hopes, he can go back to his paying job and have his family back home in a month. But he is not sure if they will be coming home to stay. 
 ''My husband has lived here all his life,'' Ms. Kels explained. ''We bought the house from his mom, so it would be hard to move.'' 
 Still, Mr. Kels is not sure whether he can afford to keep the house, which was passed down from his great-grandparents and has been flooded out twice in the past, in 1955 and 1996. Without the support of flood insurance or the emergency management agency, it is hard to imagine another shot at life along the unpredictable Delaware. 
 ''We keep asking every day, but it doesn't seem to come through,'' Ms. Kels said of the state's request for federal aid. ''It's our only hope right now.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Janis Kels sweeping a floor in her house in Harmony Township, which she had to evacuate, along with her family. (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); WEATHER (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); FLOOD INSURANCE (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); FLOOD ZONES (78%); CHILDREN (73%); INSURANCE (70%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Floods; Hurricane Ivan; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (82%) Federal Emergency Management Agency 

PERSON: Kyle Kels; Jessica Bruder

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (75%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Harmony Township (Nj); New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



63 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; COMMUNITIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Too Much of a Good Thing?

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES

DATELINE: RIDGEWOOD 

 BODY:
ILENE HARRISON has had an uneasy feeling about the downtown shopping district. 
 A resident of this upscale village of 25,000 for 11 years, Ms. Harrison could not define the feeling, but it crystalized one recent day when she saw a sign in the window of the former Laura Ashley store on Ridgewood Avenue announcing the opening of another new bank. 
 ''Towns need banks, but I don't know why a town needs 10 or more banks,'' said Ms. Harrison. 
 For her, the banks represent the village's larger problem: how to create an attractive, viable downtown without going overboard. 
 The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation lists 16 banks in the village, but a drive around town suggests that the number is closer to 18, with at least two more set to open. It is a fact that would have delighted Willie Sutton but frustrates residents like Ms. Harrison. It has grown so severe that even the Ridgewood Chamber of Commerce has taken it upon itself to put an end to the financial sprawl. 
 On Wednesday the Chamber of Commerce plans to propose that the Village Council amend the zoning ordinance to restrict not only the number of financial institutions in the downtown area, but also such village staples as beauty salons, nail salons, spas and even restaurants, which over the last 15 years have attracted people from all parts of North Jersey and made the village a prosperous culinary center. 
 Moribund commercial districts elsewhere would only be too happy for even a fraction of the banks, restaurants and beauty salons inundating Ridgewood. But Oliver Abel, the owner of Oliver's Chocolates and president of the Chamber of Commerce, who spearheaded the proposal, said that there can be too much of a good thing. 
 ''We're not trying to restrict competition,'' Mr. Abel said. ''We're trying to do two things: one is maintain some kind of parking for availability to shoppers, and secondly to maintain the proper mix of what a town like Ridgewood should be. We don't want Ridgewood to be known as just a restaurant and banking town.'' 
 There are 16 banks within the downtown shopping district. Four are within about four blocks of each other on East Ridgewood Avenue, the town's main street, with a fifth bank just one block across the railroad tracks on West Ridgewood Avenue. And at least two more are slated to open on East Ridgewood Avenue. The remainder can be found in close proximity to one another on side streets, including two side by side on Franklin Avenue, one block over from East Ridgewood Avenue.
 A Web search found some 15 beauty salons, nail salons and spas downtown. And, the Board of Health reports, there are 71 restaurants around the village, ranging from pizzerias and school cafeterias to elegant restaurants. 
 These businesses, Mr. Abel said, have created increased traffic congestion and exacerbated a shortage of parking spaces that the town has been unable to address. Plans for garages or lots have fallen through. A 2002 parking study showed a shortage of 1,298 spaces. 
 The three types of businesses together occupy 45 percent of the total street level square footage of all commercial buildings in the district, according to Mr. Abel. And because they employ more workers than most businesses in the village and attract more customers, they account for a disproportionate share of parking spaces. The proposed ordinance, he said, could be phased out when more parking becomes available. 
 James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers, said that Ridgewood was not the only wealthy town experiencing such a quandary. Westfield and Princeton are among the others experiencing ''the downside of prosperity and affluence.''
 ''They are areas that are tremendously desirable, they have tremendously high incomes, and the end result is that the cost of land has really ratcheted up,'' Mr. Hughes said. ''As prices of land, went up, people were willing to bid up the rental levels even more to secure access, and what that did was push out very interesting and needed types of activities and services in downtown areas.''
 The result is that local businesses leave town, and chain stores and banks take their place, he said. ''Banks are deep-pocket activities, and they're willing to pay more rent.'' 
 As for the restaurants, there were a only handful in the late 1980's, and many stores were vacant. Councilman Patrick Mancuso recalls there being about a dozen when he became mayor in 1992. He credits Paul Callan, a councilman at the time, with the idea of allowing outdoor restaurants in town. 
 ''The economic situation wasn't that great,'' Mr. Mancuso said. ''We looked at it as a terrific opportunity. The worst we could do was fail.''
 During his next eight years a mayor and afterward, the number of restaurants grew exponentially. 
 The Chamber of Commerce is suggesting that the Council adopt either of two ordinances: one that would limit the total square footage devoted to restaurants, banks and personal services, or one that would require any of the three types of prospective business to obtain a zoning variance, which would involve a public hearing. 
 Mr. Mancuso said the timing is right to consider amending the zoning ordinance because the Council is in the process of updating the master plan. He did not indicate which way the Council was leaning on this issue but said the proposal would provide members a good chance to discuss the matter. 
 He said reaction to the proposal among chamber members, business owners, shopkeepers and residents, had been mostly positive. 
 The 15 members of the chamber's board voted unanimously to adopt the proposal, and 88 of the 100 chamber members who responded to a questionnaire voted to forward the proposal to the Council. 
 Even some bankers and restaurateurs are for it. Paul Vagianos, a Ridgewood resident and owner of It's Greek to Me, sees the proposed restrictions as a good ''stopgap'' measure until the town builds a parking garage or adds more parking lots. 
 ''If we don't have parking, prestige stores won't come to town,'' Mr. Vagianos said. ''They'll go to other towns where there's good parking.''
 When she read about the proposal, Ms. Harrison called the Chamber of Commerce to thank officials there for their concerns about downtown. ''I kind of thought I was the only one who thought this way,'' she said.
 She laments the recent loss of Drapkin's, a stationery and office supply store with a wide selection of greeting cards and magazines that anchored East Ridgewood Avenue near the railroad tracks for many years, and Sealfons Department Store and a number of little specialty shops that have closed over the years since she came to town, only to have been replaced by chains. 
 ''I really don't want to see the quaintness and small town feeling of Ridgewood disappear and the downtown become a mini-mall,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ridgewood Avenue in Ridgewood, N.J., top and left. Oliver Abel and Debra Kurzius, members of the Chamber of Commerce, are seeking to limit new stores. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ORDINANCES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (71%); NAIL SALONS (70%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (67%) Banks and Banking; Zoning; Retail Stores and Trade; Spas; Beauty Salons; Restaurants

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (70%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (70%)

PERSON: George James

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Ridgewood (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



64 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; SOAPBOX; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Elephants in the Neighborhood

BYLINE: By ARCHIE GOTTESMAN. 
Archie Gottesman lives in Summit, and will continue to display ''Kerry for President'' signs on her lawn.

 BODY:
BECAUSE of www.fundrace.org I can no longer pretend. 
 Before fundrace.org, it was easy to persuade myself that my neighbors and I shared the same political views. But when the truth stared at me from the computer screen, I had some re-examining to do. 
 ''Did you know that that there is a Web site where you can look up who gave money to Bush or Kerry and how much?'' 
 We were sitting around the dinner table, and my mother, who at 69 is a computer and political fiend, mentioned her find. 
 ''Is that legal?'' I asked.
 ''Sure,'' she said. ''Political contributions have always been public information. I'll send you the link.'' Since that night, I've become a political peeping Tom and, perhaps, a violator of suburban etiquette.
 First I looked up my husband, Gary, and myself for accuracy. So far, so good. We had both contributed to Wesley Clark's campaign when he still had one. My donation to John Kerry was also there. I was happy with my contributions but felt a little exposed; suddenly, my personal politics just seemed so public. I began to navigate the site. Searches are done by name and address and, basically, you can go up and down your street and see who gave how much to whom. This might sound like fun if you live in a town of politically like-minded people. I don't. We live in Summit: lovely, leafy, heavily Republican. I knew this before fundrace.com. I just didn't want to believe it. 
 I continued my search, and off came those rose-colored glasses. ''Oh no!'' I groaned.
 ''What?'' Gary asked. 
 ''Karen and Joe each gave $2,000 to Bush. So did those new people on the corner. And, oh my God, Jane and Bill, too.'' 
 (For the sake of neighborliness, I have changed the names of my friends and neighbors.)
 Gary, predictably, was unmoved. ''Why does any of that surprise you?'' 
 Why indeed? Did I think that these Republicans in this Republican town were really closet Democrats? Well, yes. For years I have persuaded myself that my friends and neighbors were only sort of Republicans -- the kind who voted that way when it didn't really matter. But now, with the stakes so high, they would certainly come to their senses and align themselves with the rest of our blue state. Fundrace.org forced me to face the truth. Unless, of course, my ''Republican'' friends are putting up Bush lawn signs and giving $2000 to Bush and still voting for Kerry. Even I don't believe that. 
 I calmed myself by scrolling through the site and was pleasantly surprised at some of the contributions made to the Kerry campaign. I found myself expressing love for a few neighbors whom I vowed to get to know better. When Summit got dull, I opened my address book and checked out people from other parts of my life. Dare I search for my first true love? We haven't spoken in over 10 years, but bad news. $750 to Bush. I knew that whole relationship had been a mistake. Like a weird stroll through my past, I discovered where my old friends ended up politically. 
 I checked a few more names and began to wonder how I could be such good friends with people whose politics are so different from mine. Am I a hypocrite? Should I be more selective about whom I socialize with? Maybe donations should be kept private. Or should I stop looking for reasons to put distance between us? We are, after all, more alike than we are different. Aside from the fact that I can't bear the sight of George Bush and my neighbor gave him $2,000, she and I are remarkably similar: same background, same economic level, same education. 
 I asked a few of my Republican friends what they saw in Bush. I phrased the question diplomatically -- ''I'm trying to keep an open mind and really want understand what will make you vote for George Bush in November?'' -- and vowed to keep my cool. One friend laughed and told me that we probably agree on more issues than we disagree on. She's right: abortion, equal rights, the environment, stem-cell research, capital punishment, financing for after-school programs, gun control; on all that we see eye to eye. But none of the domestic issues are enough to make her vote for Kerry. 
 I still like to fantasize that people I like are voting for Kerry. The other day I logged onto fundrace.org. My 8-year-old daughter, Sophie, came running down the stairs and asked if she could have a play date at Isabel's. ''Hmmm. Sure, Sophie, I'll call them. In a minute.'' 
 Let's see, Rita and Henry I couldn't help myself. I checked. Just what I thought: $500 each to Bush. Sophie looked at me impatiently. I wondered whether she was ready for a political lecture instead of a play date. 
 ''Sure,'' I sighed, ''I'll give Rita a call.'' 
 Later, I drove Sophie over to the Republican-donating home and had a perfectly lovely chat with Rita. I decided that Rita really gave that contribution to Bush because of her obviously Republican husband, Henry. She could pretend now, but Rita -- a smart woman -- would never actually vote for Bush. Come Nov. 2, she was going to get behind that curtain, where no Web site would ever tattle on her, and press the button for Kerry. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); WEB SITES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%) Presidential Election of 2004; Finances

PERSON: Archie Gottesman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



65 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN TACTICS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Sailing On

BYLINE: By KELLY CROW

 BODY:
MORE than three decades ago, before the city had water taxis and the Hudson River Park, back when locals skirted New York Harbor, shimmery and sour as it was with oil slicks and condoms, there once bobbed a sailboat for hire. 
 This 70-foot yawl, called the Petrel, sailed into the city in 1972 and made her summer home by a floating dock just west of the Staten Island Ferry Terminal in Manhattan. Her skipper, a burly welder named Nick van Nes, spent the next 28 years sailing people around the harbor, a pioneer in the local charter business.
 It was into this scene that Thomas Berton, the son of East Village bohemians, skated on his Rollerblades one summer 15 years ago. Mr. van Nes was lugging a mainsail from his red pickup truck onto the Petrel, and Mr. Berton and a friend offered to help. As thanks, the skipper took them sailing. Within a week, Mr. Berton, then 24, was sleeping on the boat overnight as a volunteer member of the crew. 
 ''Typically, people were either turned off or they jumped to it,'' Mr. van Nes said recently. ''Tom jumped. But then, we weren't just a sailboat. We had a following, a little world.''
 Mr. Berton was only one of a giddy colony of urban sailors who came to cherish the Petrel and its weathered Peter Pan of a captain. Many, like Mr. Berton, knew nothing about sailing when they stumbled on the boat. Most were content to sail city waters, rarely venturing beyond. But more than a few grew up to helm and crew the Petrel, sometimes for pay but usually for the sport of it. Spending time on the boat became an urban ritual for these few dozen office workers, writers, brokers and social workers. So, all of them panicked when Mr. van Nes and the Petrel retired to Martha's Vineyard four years ago. 
 But this is a love story about two ships, not one. These city sailors have found a rescuer in one of their own, Mr. Berton, now 39. After prospering as a real estate and retail entrepreneur, he now owns a sailboat for hire. From early April through October, he takes people on sails costing $45 to $65 up to five times a day on his 82-foot, double-masted schooner, berthed at the North Cove Marina in Battery Park City. His sailboat is called the Shearwater, named for a seabird related to -- what else? -- the petrel.
 Mr. Berton said Mr. van Nes opened his and others' nautical eyes. ''Me, I was born and raised in New York,'' he said, ''so I could always answer the question of whether Manhattan was A) an island or B) an isthmus. But until we met Nick and the Petrel, we had no idea what it really meant to live on an island and love the water around it.''
 Just after sunset on a recent balmy Thursday, the Shearwater wriggled out of North Cove and into the Hudson. This maneuver requires the artless precision of a valet in a packed parking garage. At least 20 vessels of varying size and opulence sway in the marina. Of these, the Shearwater is almost certainly the oldest, built in 1929 as a gentleman's toy and operated mostly by hand and wind. But Matt Beck, one of its three alternating captains, steered with a quiet assurance. 
 Out in the water, Ellis Island glowed like a jack-o'-lantern. Canada geese skimmed over the waves, their silhouettes black in the mauve dusk. A dozen passengers watched from the teak decks. A few explored the mahogany staterooms below deck. A cluster, however, had gathered around Mr. Beck at the stern. These are the Petrel people, the regulars who knew Mr. Beck in the late 1980's when he was a still a screenwriter fresh from Rochester.
 THE bubbly woman smoking was Kathy Seng Gurland, 52, a social worker from the East Village who discovered the Petrel 14 years ago, and has volunteered to crew off and on ever since. (Some years, she took the Staten Island Ferry to and from her day job, only to run around the corner and board the Petrel for evening sails.) The crew gently teased her for two years until her hands were sufficiently calloused from rope burns to let her forgo gloves.
 Regulars still love to hear about how Mr. van Nes's parents taught their six children to sail on the family boat at City Island. They heard how his father bought the 1937 Petrel for $26,000 in a Coast Guard auction in early 1964. The boat had been a weekend plaything of President Kennedy's. They heard how her early crews in Battery Park were Mr. van Nes's welder friends from the Brooklyn Navy Yard. They heard about the 17-year old who went into labor during a sail in 1979, and gave her baby the same initials as Mr. van Nes's company, Bring Sailing Back. Over the years, these stories no longer belonged to one sailor. They blended into the group's shared mythology. 
 But more and more, Mr. van Nes let his captains oversee his boat while he stayed home, and even berthed the Petrel at Martha's Vineyard for the winter. He wearied of fighting, both for city permits and against competition. (At least three charter sailboats work from Lower Manhattan now.)
 Mr. Beck, tacking back toward the marina, said: ''I got my captain's license in 2000, and I called Nick to see when he was bringing the Petrel back. He said, 'I'm not,' and my heart just sank. Then he told me some guys were putting together another boat and I couldn't believe it. The Shearwater was my saving grace.'' 
 Mr. Berton spent $1 million buying the Shearwater and as much money on repairs after the ship was heavily damaged on Sept. 11. For a while, Petrel regulars were his only passengers. 
 A boyish but pensive host, he is more soft-spoken than Mr. van Nes. He has fewer tales of oceangoing seamanship and no salt-and-pepper beard. He feels more than anything like the resident adviser to this fraternity of Petrel fans. But they love him for that, too.
 Richard Balestrino, the executive editor for American Media Mini Mag Group, can once again take his favorite place along the bowsprit, which he calls the vessel's ''Titanic'' spot. His dog, Peaches, prefers the cockpit. Chris (Iron Man) van Nes, Mr. van Nes's nephew, can now play first mate to the Shearwater, having quit his job at an art-casting foundry upstate. Michael Fisher, the Northeast sales director for Texas Monthly magazine, can sit on deck at least twice a month and wish for wind. ''The more wind,'' Mr. Fisher said, ''the faster I'm there.'' 
 Now, it is Nick van Nes who turns wistful when friends call him with stories about the city. Most are about the Shearwater. And the new volunteers? Most are city kids like Noam Primak, 24, an economics major at Hunter College. Mr. Primak knows little about sailing and nothing about the Petrel. But he is smitten with the Shearwater. ''I haven't brought any friends out yet,'' he said, grinning on her deck in the twilight. ''I'm keeping this to myself for a while.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: OLD SALT -- Nick van Nes was master of the Petrel.
 NEW SALTS -- Nick van Nes's protege Tom Berton, below, and a nephew, Chris van Nes, left, now man the Shearwater. (Above, below and bottom, photographs by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (91%); FERRIES (90%); SAILING (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (78%); VOLUNTEERS (72%); WRITERS (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (54%) Boats and Boating; Volunteers; petrel (sailboat); shearwater (sailboat)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%)

PERSON: Nick Van Nes; Thomas Berton; Kelly Crow

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



66 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; THE NEXT CULTURAL ESTABLISHMENT; Pg. 76

LENGTH: 5203 words

HEADLINE: Where Have You Gone, Impresarios? E-76

BYLINE: By Jesse Green. 
Jesse Green is a frequent contributor to the magazine.

 BODY:
Joe Papp lay dying in a borrowed bed. The prostate cancer he had successfully beaten into remission (and tried to keep secret) since 1987 had, by the spring of 1991, returned with a vengeance. He could not go home. The modest apartment on Ninth Street in Greenwich Village that he shared with his fourth wife, Gail, had been turned into an infirmary for his son Tony, who at 28 was himself dying, of AIDS. At 69, Papp faced what would have seemed impossible throughout his years as the king of adventurous nonprofit American theater: an unwinnable fight. The man who had famously outmaneuvered Robert Moses in a struggle to build a Shakespeare playhouse in Central Park, who had saved the Astor Library on Lafayette Street from destruction and, with almost no money, turned it into the permanent base for his Public Theater, was, if not literally wandering a storm-swept heath, hopeless and in a way homeless. 
 A ''King Lear'' scenario, down to a loyal Kent: it was in Bernard Gersten's apartment that Papp found shelter as his world fell apart. Gersten had been Papp's closest associate -- his enabler, his good cop, his ''Japanese wife,'' a few steps behind and off to the side -- through most of the Public's battles and triumphs, from soon after its inception as the New York Shakespeare Festival in 1954 until 1978, when Papp suddenly, cruelly, almost capriciously fired him. Banished from the kingdom, Gersten went on to become executive producer of Lincoln Center Theater (a position he still holds), but in the end reconciled with his weakened old friend. Papp slept on and off for weeks in Gersten's bedroom (while Gersten and his wife commuted from Katonah); it was there he learned that his son had died. Shiva was held in the living room, where the actor Mandy Patinkin said Kaddish. 
 Soon thereafter, with Tony's medical equipment decommissioned, the Papps were able to return to Ninth Street. But in a way the Lear saga was far from over. Papp's real home had always been his theater, and that home had been falling into disarray since his diagnosis. As meticulously recounted by Helen Epstein in ''Joe Papp: An American Life,'' his increasing pain, his clandestine trips to Boston for treatment, his overall reluctance to deal with mortality had left the Public nearly rudderless while he made erratic stabs at designating a successor. That they would be erratic was almost a given: he was hoping to find in a single candidate the contradictory qualities he struggled his whole life to contain in himself. An aesthete but an entrepreneur. A dreamer but a doer. Joe Papp, the Shakespeare-spouting Manhattan sophisticate was also Joseph Papirofsky, the insecure son of Yiddish-speaking parents in Brooklyn. These precariously balanced extremes sometimes made him seem like a Saul Bellow character: scrappy, egotistical, nurturing, splenetic, charming, brutish, sentimental, blunt. He was too, too much -- which, in terms of inventing and sustaining the Public, was always just barely enough.
 According to Epstein, the first person he asked to replace him was Meryl Streep. (''I couldn't have been a more impractical choice,'' Streep said.) Then he approached a series of well-known directors: Mike Nichols, Jerry Zaks, James Lapine. They turned him down, some recognizing their limitations, some recognizing the Public's, all understanding the wisdom in the warning against following a star onstage. 
 so great was Papp's achievement, so disastrous his endgame, that 13 years after his death, the problem of how to follow him persists, even though two people have already done so. Last February, the second of them -- the Public's current producer, George C. Wolfe -- announced that he intends to step down soon after a successor is in place. The current search may lack the melodrama of the one that Papp undertook but is, in a way, more difficult. Pappian verve and vision, hard enough to find, must now be weighed against fiscal pressures and a cultural climate less hospitable to the Public's mission of new theatrical work at affordable prices. In England, where dashing artistic leaders are not yet extinct, you could start your list with Sam Mendes or Nicholas Hytner or Edward Hall. In America, though there are plenty of talented directors and a number of exciting and savvy producers, and even a few who are both, it's hard to think of a single figure who could make art, make news and make his way in the various nontheatrical venues (boardrooms, donors' salons, City Council chambers) that a successful artistic leader would also have to master.
 Unlike Papp, Wolfe has not been actively involved in the search for his successor, but he has told the board committee in charge of the process that the next artistic director must have an ''incredible sense of civic responsibility.'' A survey conducted by Albert Hall & Associates, the search firm hired by the Public, found the same thing: that the social mission of the theater is paramount. This puts the committee members, as they narrow the list (down as of this writing from 80 to ''a handful'') in a delicate position. Committed to honoring that mandate, they also know that the mandate is fragile and expensive; they must steer clear of potential candidates who are either unreasonably interesting (Tony Kushner, the actor Philip Seymour Hoffman) or uninterestingly reasonable. Most, if not all, of the finalists are white men who already run successful nonprofit theaters; some (like Oskar Eustis at Trinity Rep in Providence and Doug Hughes, who ran the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven for four years) are producer-directors, while others (like Jim Nicola of the New York Theater Workshop) are primarily producers. None are well known outside the theater, but then neither is Wolfe, even now. 
 Difficult though it is, the choice is at least being faced sensibly -- a decision is expected later this month -- whereas Papp wavered for years, finally settling on JoAnne Akalaitis, a founder of the avant-garde Mabou Mines company. Whatever her artistic skills or fitness for the job, there was very little likelihood of her succeeding, because immediately upon approaching her in 1989, Papp started to squirm, rejiggering the structure of the theater as if to humble the heir apparent. For a while, she and three other directors (Wolfe, Michael Greif and David Greenspan) were each given one of the Public's stages to program independently. With the kingdom divided so strangely, the playwright John Guare was moved to ask Wolfe which of Lear's daughters -- Goneril, Regan or Cordelia -- he was meant to be.
 Papp's maneuvering (which also included pitiful salary offers and a secret approach to another candidate) was designed, it now seems clear, to hamstring Akalaitis -- to prove that he was, in the end, irreplaceable. It worked: after Papp's death in October 1991, Akalaitis lasted 16 disastrous months in the job. On March 15, 1993, the board of the Public, thanking her for her service ''during this time of transition,'' fired her and hired Wolfe, who has led the theater ever since. And led it well. The record of his 11 years is one of both extraordinary artistic accomplishment and also fidelity to the theater's social vision. Yet Wolfe's achievement in those areas was not matched by equivalent success in stabilizing the finances and expanding the reach of the theater. Instead, the theater's operations have often been chaotic and the subscribers fickle. Which leads many to wonder whether the Public, even if it found another Papp or Wolfe, could afford him.
 And could such a person be persuaded to take on a very difficult job in a very vicious fishbowl? Some big names on the original list developed by Albert Hall have taken themselves off it. Prestige isn't what it used to be. The best directors today enjoy the freedom to work all over the world, to shuttle between commercial and nonprofit theaters, to set (or revise) their own artistic agendas instead of fulfilling someone else's. And producers may understandably be less impressed with the Public's opportunities than troubled by its limitations. ''Following an extremely charismatic and controversial artistic director into an institution that has five theaters to fill and a yearly operating budget of zero isn't my idea of a good time,'' said one of the 80 on the original list.
 He was exaggerating (the actual operating budget is $13 million), but there was a time when the country's greatest talents would be lining up for such a job regardless, when Thomas Hoving at the Metropolitan Museum, Rudolph Bing at the Metropolitan Opera, Beverly Sills at the New York City Opera, Harvey Lichtenstein at the Brooklyn Academy of Music and Papp at the Public were stomping around New York nearly at once. Each had a big idea -- a new way of putting old things together -- and the charisma to sell it to audiences and donors. Lichtenstein's idea was to ennoble avant-garde art by transplanting it from cramped makeshift spaces into a vast gilded-age palace, where it could breathe; Papp did the opposite, making traditional art more democratic by taking it out of such palaces and into the park or a downtown black box, where it was cheap and accessible. One of his greatest innovations was touring Shakespeare throughout the city on a caravan of flatbed trucks.
 But the kind of personality that can make what is basically a programming initiative into a fervent political mission (or perhaps more accurately, can express a fervent political mission in terms of cultural programming) doesn't turn up much anymore. The cultural bigfoots -- the cover-of-Time types who either founded great institutions or became synonymous with their greatest flourishing -- have faded from view. Their successors are often less willing to give their whole lives to a cause; Wolfe wants to direct films and return to his writing. 
 A bigger reason for the extinction of the bigfoots is money. Many inspiring leaders, despite mesmerizing donors over cocktails, leave huge budgetary messes in their wake. Some of New York's great impresarios were more fiscally prudent than others, and some had lots more cash with which to be prudent, but even the poorer cousins, like Papp and Lichtenstein, tended to feed the vision first and the kitty later. ''Money follows art,'' Papp often said. Which is fine unless you're a supplier whose bill isn't being paid, or the bank holding the mortgage on your theater. 
 For Lichtenstein, as for almost all of the other nonprofit stars of his time, it was a matter of art for art's sake; when Ingmar Bergman became disenchanted with his company's production of ''The Misanthrope'' a month before it was to open at BAM in 1996, Lichtenstein simply canceled the sold-out run and refunded the tickets. For Papp, following the precepts of his Communist youth and the Group Theater he so admired, it was art for life's sake. He built his debt by supporting plays (and often, on formal or informal stipends, playwrights themselves) that spoke as directly as possible to his audience.
 For whomever's sake, art is expensive and (according to most artists) radically undersupported. This has only worsened in recent years. ''The bedrock of municipal and civic responsibility'' on which Papp (sometimes just hopefully) based his enterprise has largely eroded; the Public's annual grant from the National Endowment for the Arts was $40,000 in 2004. Given the difficult climate, search committees at some cultural institutions have begun to feel they may be better off with skilled managers instead of star impresarios. After Lichtenstein's retirement in 1999, BAM very successfully divided his job between two people you never hear about. Under Karen Brooks Hopkins, the president, and Joseph Melillo, the executive producer, who call themselves ''blue collar workers in the arts,'' the institution is financially -- and artistically -- sound. 
 Perhaps the mystery isn't so much where the bigfoots have gone as whether they're even wanted. If he were applying for the leadership of any large cultural institution today, let alone an inherently precarious one like the Public Theater, Joe Papp might not make it past the board interview. (''He would probably insult them all out of the room,'' Gersten says.) I'm not even sure that Wolfe, with his 1993 resume, could get the job now. When he was hired, he was only an artist. 
 So who could? Who should? 
The Public's answer largely depends on how much it feels it can afford to preserve the mission that Papp established. It's hard now to remember how transformative that mission once was. Papp, along with a few other nonprofit impresarios (Gordon Davidson at the Center Theater Group in Los Angeles and Zelda Fichandler at the Arena Stage in Baltimore) basically invented a form of American theater, based neither on Broadway nor in academia, that was rooted in civic life while embracing contemporary political concerns and nurturing new work. Beginning with his contention that Shakespeare needed rescuing from British blowhards and continuing through his championing of nonwhite and (to a lesser degree) female playwrights, Papp eventually built what Tony Kushner calls the flagship of socially conscious theater. ''People don't get the radicalism of Joe's mission,'' says Kushner, who has had several plays produced at the Public since 1991. ''There was an absolute commitment to a revolutionary relationship between life and art, and a mistrust of anything that compromised that.''
 But built into that mission was the mechanism of its perpetual undoing. The Public could never come close to balancing its budget without governmental aid. On the one hand, new work is rarely commercially successful, and Papp always insisted on allowing young writers to fail in hopes they would eventually succeed. (Many did: David Rabe, Wallace Shawn, Ed Bullins, Miguel Pinero, Ntozake Shange, John Guare, Elizabeth Swados, Thomas Babe, Dennis Reardon and John Ford Noonan were produced repeatedly at the Public.) On the other hand, in renovating the derelict Lafayette Street building to advance his vision, Papp built five intimate auditoriums -- none with more than 299 seats -- rather than one or two large ones. With all five selling cheap tickets (currently $50; subscribers pay less), and with the Public's largest venue, the 1,900-seat Delacorte in Central Park, free for anyone willing to wait in line, you have a structural mismatch of income and expenses. Alas, donors who might have closed the gap were not much tempted by violent prison dramas and feminist prose poems. Were it not for ''A Chorus Line,'' which opened at the Public in May 1975 before moving to Broadway two months later and running 15 years, it's questionable whether the theater would have survived at all. ''A Chorus Line'' brought almost $50 million into the Public's leaky coffers. 
 ''A Chorus Line,'' which was a daring musical, at least stylistically, in its time, turned a local institution devoted to noncommercial work into the most famous theater in the country and a freak of nature: a profitable nonprofit. With success came expansion: film series, Latino festivals, further adventures on Broadway and later in London. This, of course, meant setting up lines of authority to manage it all. There are people who can devise and live comfortably within the boxes imposed by ''good management,'' but Papp wasn't one of them. To the bitter end, he kept his kingdom chaotic and unbalanced; that was how he felt it ran best. He resisted all attempts to improve the Festival's finances at the expense of its mission by, for instance, charging small fees for Shakespeare in the Park even when it became hugely popular. As a result, by the time Akalaitis was appointed, the endowment built by ''A Chorus Line'' was down from $24 million to $13 million, most of the difference having gone to cover annual deficits that typically ran to $2.5 million. 
 While Akalaitis struggled to resolve the theater's contradictions, Wolfe, whose plays ''The Colored Museum'' and ''Spunk'' had been mounted to great acclaim under Papp, was emerging as the Public's star. There and in his Broadway productions of other people's work -- the musical ''Jelly's Last Jam'' and ''Angels in America'' in the early 90's -- he seemed effortlessly to do what Papp, as a director, never could: make high-flown ideas accessible in popular forms and raise lowbrow forms to a new level of expressiveness. 
 Directing shows that won prizes yet made money, Wolfe deftly leapt over the trap that the Public seemed fated to fall into. Gail Papp, who had worked at the theater since 1965 and was now on its board, began to think that Wolfe might be a godsend. True, he had no management experience. But he was young (37 at the time of her husband's death), quick and, as anyone who spent a minute with him knew, scarily energetic. As a gay black man, he believed in Papp's mission of inclusivity at least as deeply as Papp had himself; indeed, he seemed to embody it. 
''Growing up in a segregated town in Kentucky,'' Wolfe told me recently, ''there was this sense of responsibility, as part of the generation that integrated, to go in and be bright and charming and smart, and then to open up the door so other people could go in. For whatever reason -- I'm a forceful personality, I had ducked and dodged and people supported me -- I got my work done. But I know lots of artists who don't know how to duck and dodge, so I was feeling this sense of wanting to take care of them.''
 Sitting in his office at the Public, wearing striped jeans, a white T-shirt and sneakers, Wolfe -- who is turning 50 almost simultaneously with the theater -- looks like the skinny, owlish boy in the back of gym class who'd rather be reading. Even more than Papp, he inspires intense loyalty and frustration, sometimes from the same people. Unlike Akalaitis, who was called artistic director, Wolfe took Papp's title of producer and the wide swath of responsibility that went with it. And much as Papp had, he neglected to observe many niceties of institutional governance, like developing business plans for new ventures. ''I was on a huge learning curve,'' Wolfe admits.
 But the deeper criticism of Wolfe has little to do with his management style. It's the relationship between his role as the head of the institution and as an artist in his own right -- a problem that Papp and most of his bigfoot contemporaries rarely faced -- that has troubled some observers most. They say that Wolfe focused his energy and the theater's resources on his own work, leaving others to languish; that he foolishly pushed his own productions to Broadway and in so doing lost the institution a fortune; that he has hijacked Papp's great social vision as a vehicle for personal success -- in short, in answer to John Guare's question, that he's been the parricidal Regan and Goneril, rolled into one.
 It's true that not every production got the attention it merited or might have benefited from. But the rest of the rap isn't borne out by the record. The Broadway mountings of ''On the Town'' and ''The Wild Party'' (''My Two Big Flops,'' as Wolfe calls them) did lose the Public $11 million, but the nine other productions he moved uptown, directing six of them, brought about $9 million back. A $2 million loss over 11 years is not so bad, considering the worthiness of most of the transfers, which ranged in genre from a tap history of black life in America (''Bring in da Noise, Bring in da Funk'') to a one-woman lovefest (''Elaine Stritch at Liberty'') to this year's ''Caroline, or Change,'' which closed in August after a four-month run but was easily the best new serious musical on Broadway in years. (Under a new policy restricting investment in Broadway productions, the Public had only a minimal stake in the ''Caroline'' transfer, and thus lost little when it failed to thrive.) Papp often shed money on Broadway outings that were far less deserving.
 And if Wolfe expended a lot of energy on his own productions, that, he argues, is at least in part what he was hired to do. ''Being a working director was one of my huge drawing cards,'' he says. ''I was the whore in an Amsterdam window, saying, 'Woo woo woo, come on inside!''' Once lured there, theatergoers at the Public tended to get a good deal for their money -- not only in the work of playwrights Wolfe produced repeatedly (Suzan-Lori Parks, David Henry Hwang, Lisa Kron, Nilo Cruz, Diana Son) but also in the excitement of their interaction with classics and with each other. ''The goal was to make the lobby look like a subway stop,'' Wolfe says. ''I was intent on figuring out how much this institution on every single level -- the artists, the staff, the audience -- could reflect the city.''
 One of Wolfe's ideas for achieving that mix was Joe's Pub, a cabaret space established in 1998 in former administrative offices adjacent to the main building. Meant to introduce a new crowd to the Public and lure them to its regular offerings, the Pub was, at first, a financial disaster. And because the Pub has a separate entrance, there was virtually no cross-pollination with the theater. After a reorganization of the program -- scaled-back dining and two shows instead of one each night -- the Pub now turns a profit: $152,000 last year, enough to stage a small play. But the theater still gets letters saying he has diluted Papp's mission.
 That he has sometimes been criticized for pursuing the same policies that made Papp a hero -- new ventures aimed at young audiences, colorblind casting, loyalty to young black, gay and female playwrights -- suggests how seriously Wolfe has taken the mandate implicit in the name of his theater. Far from being a Regan or Goneril, Wolfe has been Papp's Cordelia, the child who most honored him, if on his own terms. 
Of course, there have been times during Wolfe's tenure when the Public resembled the kind of subway stop -- dim, deserted -- you don't want to enter. There have been endless crises and cutbacks. The institution, miraculously, found in Wolfe a cultural bigfoot to rank with the best of them, but it found him at a time when the environment for bigfoots was getting decidedly less congenial. The theater simply could not keep running at large deficits, no matter how valuable the work those deficits financed. The endowment was shriveling. Wolfe could not supervise the art going on in the theater or direct the shows that were its rainmakers while also schmoozing angels, managing the staff and courting foundations. If Papp had himself been ''too much,'' now the job was.
 And Wolfe was changing, too, which is one thing no one wants a bigfoot to do. His mother became ill in 1995 while he was rehearsing ''Bring in da Noise'' (during the day) and ''The Tempest'' (at night); in quick succession, she died, the shows opened, his house in Greenwich Village burned down and he was given a diagnosis of renal failure. Though he was able to keep working while on dialysis, his kidney transplant in 1997 brought most of his public activities to a halt. When they resumed, Wolfe and the board changed the leadership structure of the theater, making him for the first time co-equal with an executive director. In November 2000, Fran Reiter, a former deputy mayor for planning and economic development in the Giuliani administration, was given the position, with responsibility for the finances, marketing and development of the institution. 
 This was the structure that nearly every other major nonprofit theater in the country (and many other cultural organizations, like BAM) had settled on: what Bernard Gersten calls the ''twinsie'' arrangement. At Lincoln Center, Gersten himself is a twinsie, with the artistic director, Andre Bishop. At the Manhattan Theater Club, the artistic director, Lynne Meadow, and the executive director, Barry Grove, have been splitting (and sometimes blurring) the duties of running their institution since 1975. The value of this arrangement is obvious: the very different skills and energies needed for the job no longer have to be found in one person. (''I don't wanna be schlepping around Indonesia looking for a two-hour dance piece,'' says BAM's Hopkins.) The potential problem, beyond who's ultimately in charge, is subtler. The kind of person whose ego and charisma can keep an institution on the map is not often the kind who wants to share power with someone he most likely sees as a glorified accountant. 
 And yet the Roundabout Theater, which, almost uniquely, does not have a ''twinsie'' structure, is far more stable than the Public, with a subscriber base of 39,000 and a retention rate around 70 percent. (The Public has only about 6,000 subscribers and a rather alarming ''churn,'' with, until recently, fewer than half renewing each year.) The Roundabout is in fact run by an accountant, Todd Haimes, who has an M.B.A. from Yale and does not consider himself an artist. ''The advantage of my background is that all of my artistic decisions are being informed by management concerns,'' Haimes says. ''No one's ever going to accuse me of being a crazy artist. The disadvantage is the same: that perhaps there are brilliant things other people could accomplish that I just can't.''
 The Roundabout, like the Manhattan Theater Club and Lincoln Center Theater, has a different mission from the Public's. Gersten says it's enough of a mission for theaters like his just to survive. All three operate Broadway houses that sustain the more experimental and intimate work they do on their Off Broadway stages. But the Public is all experiment, all intimate. It does not program to attract huge audiences and couldn't sustain them if it did; there aren't enough seats. Beneath its leadership struggles there has always been the fear that a co-equal executive director would forget, or not care, that Papp had meant it to be that way, and would try to turn the Public into the Roundabout. 
 That fear proved to be grounded when Reiter took office. The official line is that she was phenomenally mismatched to Wolfe's personality, but in the wake of Sept. 11, which deepened the Public's perpetual fiscal crisis, it was much more serious than that. Through clenched teeth, Wolfe describes the problem as a matter of principles. ''This is an institution of new work, not of revivals, of daring work, not safe work, about taking on New York City and every aspect of it -- about what's next, new, chaotic. And when there becomes a thought process of fundamentally altering that, that is not correct for this institution.'' He purses his lips. ''Not to mention that this is a no-smoking building -- and the smoke pouring out of her office!'' 
 Reiter says that if she was mismatched to Wolfe's personality, she was the ''third or fourth in a long line'' of such mismatches. ''I don't believe George was accepting of anyone in that job doing what they were supposed to do,'' she told me. According to Reiter, she presented Kenneth B. Lerer, the chairman of the Public's board, with a he-goes-or-I-go ultimatum. Lerer chose Wolfe, Reiter left, two key board members resigned, the budget was slashed by 20 percent and the staff by 25 percent to avert disaster. Reiter's job remained empty for almost a year.
 No one inside the theater likes to admit, at least publicly, how bad things were. Good productions were mounted, but management was basically operating in permanent emergency mode. Required maintenance on the building was deferred, and the roof was literally about to fall in. (It would soon start raining in the theater.) When the board, after a formal search, hired Mara Manus as the new executive director, there were very few complaints (as there had been about Reiter) that she was not a theater person. She came to the Public from the Ford Foundation, where part of her job was to help midsize cultural nonprofits stay solvent and grow. But she had also spent 13 years as a Hollywood studio executive and, as such, was a realist about change. Soon after she arrived, Manus distributed to the board an excerpt from a book called ''Nonprofit Lifecycles.'' The handout described seven natural phases in the growth of such institutions: the Idea, the Start-Up, etc. 
 When I asked Manus which phase she thought the Public was in at the time, she said, ''Turnaround.'' 
 The only one after that was ''Terminal.''
Less than two years later, the Public was showing signs of renewed health. Income from ticket sales increased significantly, and last season was the first in eight years without an operating deficit. The roof is being fixed, and an $11 million capital-improvements program aimed at serving patrons (better seats and bathrooms, a more spacious lobby with direct access to Joe's Pub and a full-time cafe) is moving forward. Because individual gift-giving has also improved, the Delacorte, which had been forced to reduce its season to one play, is returning to a two-play schedule next summer. Perhaps most important, this all happened as the Public produced some of its best seasons in years. 
 Still, it has not been an easy transition. According to Manus, half the work force has turned over since she arrived. Staff members who reported directly to Wolfe (whether or not they could get his attention) may now report to Manus as well. These decisions have been mutual, and the two leaders work well together. (''She doesn't want my job, and I don't want hers,'' Wolfe says. ''She's not easily threatened. And she's not a bully.'') Still, some people who were let go, and some merely watching anxiously, fear the emergence of an un-Pappian emphasis on orderliness over creativity. But Manus doesn't think these are mutually exclusive. ''I would argue that an institution not in chaos provides greater opportunity for artists because the focus is then on creating a safe place to be unsafe,'' she says. ''That space is far more sacred when the chaos of the institutional instability does not invade it.''
 By splitting its leadership and finding an effective executive to fill the management half of the job, the Public has gone a long way toward solving its inborn structural problems. So why is there still such a yearning to fill the other half with a Papp redux? ''The person we need to hire has to be the equivalent of a star player for the New York Yankees,'' says Lerer, the Public's chairman. ''The moment that person's name is announced, their failures will be trumpeted and their triumphs will be destroyed. So it needs to be somebody who already knows how to operate on that stage.'' 
 But the desire for a bigfoot, it seems to me, is really the desire to preserve the Public's significance as a player in the life-or-death world of ideas. We want someone to bodily stop the culture's spotlight from passing irretrievably onto something trivial. When Lerer says that the next artistic director had better be someone you'd like to have dinner with (''Crazy people need not apply,'' he warns), it's a point well taken. But I'm not sure that anyone who isn't at least a little crazy can close his ears to the rest of the world and make the case -- and make it big -- that the kind of theater that made the Public the Public still matters. 


CORRECTION-DATE: October 17, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 3 about the Public Theater and its search for a new artistic director misstated the location of another pioneering nonprofit theater, Arena Stage. It is in Washington, not Baltimore.

GRAPHIC: Photos: 1956: Shakespeare alfresco began at the East River Amphitheater. Here, ''The Taming of the Shrew,'' starring Colleen Dewhurst.
1964: The Mobile Theater delivered Shakespeare to the boroughs in a caravan of flatbed trucks.
1967: This was the dawning of the rock musical. ''Hair'' moved to Broadway in 1968 and ran for four years.
1978: The Prince Papp at the Public during the run of ''The Mandrake,'' by Machiavelli.
1962: George C. Scott in ''The Merchant of Venice,'' the first production at the Delacorte in Central Park.
1972: David Rabe's critical hit about Vietnam moved to Broadway and won the Tony for Best Play.
1972: The Bard rocked, and went on to win the Tony for Best Musical.
1975: ''A Chorus Line'' ran on Broadway until 1990 and deposited $50 million into the Public's leaky coffers.
1978: ''Runaways,'' by Elizabeth Swados, one of the emerging playwrights whose work Papp often produced.
1978: ''The Taming of the Shrew,''this time revived at the Delacorte with Meryl Streep and Raul Julia. Streep was Papp's first choice to succeed him.
1985: ''The Normal Heart,'' the groundbreaking AIDS drama by Larry Kramer.
1981: ''The Pirates of Penzance,'' with Linda Ronstadt and Kevin Kline.: 1995: George C. Wolfe in the lobby of the Public. ''I was intent on figuring out how much this institution on every single level could reflect the city.''
1991: JoAnne Akalaitis, Papp's eventual successor, lasted less than two years.
1990: ''Spunk'' was adapted by Wolfe from three Zora Neale Hurston stories.
1995: ''Bring in da Noise, Bring in da Funk,'' starring Savion Glover: tap as black-history lesson.
1997: ''On the Town,'' another Wolfe production, started at the Delacorte and had a brief run on Broadway.
1998: Joe's Pub opened, aiming at a pop-and-cabaret crowd. David Byrne, above, played there.
2001: ''Topdog/Underdog,'' written by Suzan-Lori Parks and starring Don Cheadle (left) and Jeffrey Wright, won a Pulitzer.
2004: ''Richard III,'' starring Peter Dinklage, is currently in previews at the Public.
2004: ''Embedded,'' written and directed by Tim Robbins, satirized the Iraq war.
 2001: ''Elaine Stritch at Liberty'' had a sold-out run at the Public before moving on to Broadway, Tony and Emmy. (Photographs by: PAPP: MARTY REICHENTHAL/ASSOCIATED PRESS. ''A CHORUS LINE'' AND ''RUNAWAYS'': MARTHA SWOPE. ALL OTHERS: GEORGE E. JOSEPH. PLAYBILLS AND POSTER FROM THE PUBLIC THEATER. WOLFE: SARA KRULWICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. ''THE NORMAL HEART,'' ''THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE,'' AKALAITIS AND ''SPUNK'': MARTHA SWOPE. JOE'S PUB: KEVIN YATAROLA. ALL OTHERS: MICHAL DANIEL. POSTERS FROM THE PUBLIC THEATER.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); CANCER (89%); MEN'S HEALTH (78%); PROSTATE DISEASE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); PROSTATE CANCER (73%); AIDS & HIV (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (70%); IRAQ WAR (70%) Theater

ORGANIZATION: Public Theater (NYC)

PERSON: MERYL STREEP (69%) Jesse Green; Joseph (1921-91) Papp

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



67 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate's Sizzle Draws New Brokers

BYLINE: By EVE TAHMINCIOGLU

 BODY:
JOHN P. HARRISON got a real estate license in May after his day-trading business deteriorated over several years. Jennifer Glass is studying for a license after leaving a 10-year career as a legal assistant. Luke Gardner, a former lawyer, became a real estate broker in August. 
 As prices for New York real estate reach stratospheric levels, thousands of New Yorkers are enrolling in courses and taking exams to become real estate agents and brokers. The number of people holding broker or sales agents licenses in the New York City, Westchester County and Long Island region rose to 94,587 last month from 79,372 at the end of 2002, according to Peter Constantakes, a spokesman for the New York Department of State, which oversees such licensing. 
 It is relatively easy to become a real estate sales agent or broker. A sales agent takes just one course and one exam, while a broker, who oversees the business of an agency, takes two courses and two tests and must have a year of experience in the business. 
 Even a new broker can look forward to a comfortable income. Agents in New York City can expect to make $50,000 to $85,000 annually, and brokers as much as $100,000 if not more their first year, said Mark David, owner of Mark David & Company, a real estate agency in Manhattan.
 But if long-term interest rates start to climb significantly, making mortgages more expensive, the fever in the real estate market could cool, thereby reducing the number of high-price sales.
 At the same time, commissions, which have remained about 6 to 7 percent for years, are declining to 5 percent or less because of greater competition. That means many of the newly minted agents and brokers could soon find themselves in a less-profitable business with many competitors. 
 Frank Nothaft, vice president and chief economist at Freddie Mac, which buys home mortgages and bundles them into large securities, said he expected interest rates to rise ''a good half a percentage point'' and the number of home sales nationwide to decline to 7.1 million next year from a record 7.7 million this year. 
 ''Are people going to school to become agents at the right time?'' he said. ''That's the $64,000 question. Looking out over next year, home sales will be a bit weaker nationwide, and I would expect the New York market to reflect that.''
 For now, though, the flood of new people into the real estate business is large enough to create long lines at the Department of State's test center.
 On a recent Tuesday morning (the only day the test is given each week), people began lining up at 5:30 a.m. to take the 9 o'clock test, and many had to be turned away because only 285 people can take the exam at one time, Mr. Constantakes said. To meet demand, he said, another test, on Tuesday afternoons, was added in July. 
 At the New York Real Estate Institute, among the places offering the state-required 45-hour real estate sales course for $250, enrollment has jumped.
 Every Monday, the school tests its students as part of the course before they take the state examination, and a typical class has upward of 90 students, compared with a class size of about 70 last year, said Richard Levine, the school's president. 
 Mr. Harrison, the former day trader, said that the value of his house in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn doubled in the last five years. Generally, he said, ''the real estate market has been in a frenzy.''
 He took his real estate course in May and joined Bellmarc, a Manhattan real estate agency, in June. 
 Similarly, Ms. Glass, the former legal assistant, said the hot market had influenced her to change careers. ''You hear about the constant boom, and I just wanted to get a piece of it,'' she said. She plans to take the real estate test later this month.
 Home sales are expected to continue to be strong the rest of the year, according to Mr. Nothaft and Lawrence Yun, a senior economist for the National Association of Realtors. Sales of existing homes in the New York region reached 194,700 in 2003, and Mr. Yun forecasted that 2004 would be another record year.
 ''The sales activity, in combination with much stronger home price appreciation, is boosting many realtors' incomes,'' Mr. Yun said. ''Others see that and want to enter the profession.''
 The robust real estate market has created one of the few good job stories in the New York City economy this year, said James Brown, labor market analyst for the New York State Labor Department.
 In August, he said, real estate jobs were up 2.9 percent in the five boroughs of New York City from the month a year ago. Over all, private sector job growth was up just 1.7 percent in August.
 A sampling of real estate agencies throughout the region found that opportunity was still brisk. Dottie Herman, chief executive of Prudential Douglas Elliman in Manhattan, said she planned to add another 100 sales agents and brokers to her staff of 2,600 based throughout the New York area. Already this year, her staff has grown by 400. 
 But at some real estate agencies, the competition for jobs is intensifying. Janice Silver, an executive vice president at Bellmarc, with six offices in Manhattan and more than 350 brokers, said that she planned to hire another 10 sales agents to her Midtown office.
 Because of the flood of people in the business, she said she expected to get about 200 applicants for those jobs, compared with 50 for the same number just a few years ago. 
 ''These days,'' Ms. Silver said, ''we're finding we have a lot more people to choose from.''
 Those who are aware of the cyclical nature of the business take the ups and downs in stride. Maureen Papalas, a broker and owner of Century 21 Papalas Realty in Queens, has been in the business for 32 years and remembers that even when interest rates hit double digits, there was still money to be made.
 ''If you want to work hard you can make it,''Ms. Papalas said. ''There will always be people who have to sell and people who have to buy.'' 
 Mr. Gardner, who quit his job as a lawyer to become a real estate broker in August, working for Brown Harris Stevens, isn't worried. ''Whether it's booming or not,'' he said, ''real estate is always turning around in New York.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: To get a real estate license in New York, students must take 45 hours of classes. Here, brokers study at the New York Real Estate Institute. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 12)
 Students interested in becoming brokers attend William Plunkett's class at the New York Real Estate Institute. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE AGENTS (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); SALES FORCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); LICENSES & PERMITS (78%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); CITIES (70%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%) Housing; Brokers and Brokerage Firms; Labor; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%)

PERSON: Eve Tahmincioglu

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



68 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1726 words

HEADLINE: The Next TriBeCa? Stick a Pin in the Map

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
It has become a familiar New York story: Another neighborhood written off as doomed becomes the Next New Thing. 
 Twenty-five years ago, dowdy TriBeCa, the Upper West Side and Park Slope began blossoming into some of the city's most alluring places to live, prompting thousands of daydreaming home buyers to slap their heads and ask, ''Why didn't I buy there?''
 Then far bleaker neighborhoods like Harlem, the South Bronx, Fort Greene and Williamsburg saw their rubble-blanketed lots, burnt-out shells and down-at-the-heels brownstones transformed into appealing, sometimes voguish habitats. Now even the badlands of East New York, Bushwick and Red Hook are luring adventurous developers and homesteaders. There is scarcely a New York neighborhood that is not on an upswing. 
 ''Every borough and every section of every borough has a huge success story today,'' said Julia Vitullo-Martin, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group, who specializes in development. ''You can sort of name your borough. They've all had amazing resurrections.''
 Some of the forces that have been pressing gentrification into once-pariah neighborhoods are well documented. Crime has plummeted since 1990, when a record 2,245 murders were recorded -- more than three times current levels -- rendering once treacherous blocks safe once more. Then, too, escalating housing prices in sturdy neighborhoods have forced buyers and renters with more shallow pockets to look at the city's ragged margins.
 But urban experts say that there are other elements that have come together to fuel this across-the-board metamorphosis of the city's real estate. 
 Municipal government, starting with the Koch administration in the late 1970's, can claim large credit for rebuilding properties taken for nonpayment of taxes, and providing tax abatements for landlords who rehabilitated their apartment houses. John H. Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the City University of New York, estimates the amount the city spent on rebuilding over the years at $5 billion. 
 ''There were places in the South Bronx where some buildings got rehabilitated a couple of times before it took,'' said Mr. Mollenkopf. ''There must have been many moments when people thought 'this is folly.'''
 Indeed, in 1976 one housing expert, Roger Starr, looking out at acres of the postwar-Berlin-like wasteland in the South Bronx, proposed ''planned shrinkage'' of such areas, urging that the luckless remaining residents be encouraged to leave and that subway and other services be cut off. Wiser heads prevailed. The subsequent waves of construction, prompted by the city, primed the pump for investments by private developers. It encouraged banks to again lend money and spurred insurers to issue fire and damage policies. 
 Spending on transportation has also helped fuel real estate development across the city. The breathtaking improvements in the reliability and ambience of the subways -- even the ability to transfer from buses to trains without paying another fare -- have helped revive neighborhoods far from Midtown. 
 And the city's population has rebounded after falling to almost 7 million in 1980. The Department of City Planning estimates that 8.15 million now live in the five boroughs and that, by some projections, more than 9 million could be living here within 20 years. All those additional people need shelter. Since comparatively little new housing is available in established neighborhoods, prices in those areas have skyrocketed. So many who want to live in New York -- which imposes far lower real estate taxes than the suburbs and where a car is often not necessary -- are willing to gamble on once moribund blocks. A study to be released soon, by Mitchell L. Moss, professor of urban planning at the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at New York University, and Hugh O'Neill, president of Appleseed, an economic development consulting firm, has found that building permits for privately owned residential properties increased by more than 40 percent between 2000 and 2003, rising to 99,320 permits issued. 
 Much of the population spurt is the result of immigration, and many newcomers from overseas have been open to living in racially diverse neighborhoods and have shown the spunk to risk their life savings on still-shabby blocks. Immigrants, including many from China, India and the West Indies, look to real estate as a way to make their American fortune, often using the income stream from renting half of a two-family home as a springboard. It's not a coincidence that many of the neighborhoods gentrifying now are full of two- and three-family homes. 
 The city is also attracting young singles and couples from all over the country in record numbers, said Professor Moss. ''This is the city where a good waiter can make $100,000,'' he said. ''You can find ways to do well in New York City without having a college degree.'' 
 Many of these young people, said Jerome Krase, a professor emeritus of sociology at Brooklyn College, are drawn to polyglot neighborhoods like the Lower East Side and Williamsburg.
 ''Multicultural is now hot,'' said Mr. Krase. ''In the 60's and 70's people were seeking homogenous neighborhoods. Now they like the ambiance of multicultural. On the Lower East Side they're complaining that gentrification is changing the diversity of the neighborhood.'' 
 The city has also been lucky that the nation's economy remained on a fairly high plane through the 1990's and into this decade, experts said, with real incomes rising and interest rates low enough to keep the mortgage market accessible to many first-time buyers. New York has also been fortunate because it has had a strong intellectual economy -- of finance, arts, journalism and entertainment -- that allowed it to weather the decline in manufacturing better than other American cities.
 Perhaps no neighborhood demonstrates the city's reversal of fortune more palpably than East New York, a low-rise neighborhood in Brooklyn near the Queens border. Its run-down or ruined brick and wood-frame, two-family homes, poor schools, drug markets and soaring crime made it notorious as one of the city's worst places to live. In some corners more than half the lots were flattened by arson, abandonment, neglect and two riots. Even five years ago developers were skittish about investing. 
 But today nearly every vacant lot is spoken for, with spanking new two- and three-family row houses, and older homes being spruced up by longtime residents awakening to their new value. 
 ''We're one of the last frontiers,'' said William S. Wilkins, the Empire Zones coordinator for the Local Development Corporation of East New York. ''It's the cheapest game in town. Where else are you going to find houses for $200,000 to $300,000 in Brooklyn?''
 But African-American and Latino police officers, nurses, firefighters and civil servants are not the only ones snapping up houses in a neighborhood that has been largely black and Latino since the 1960's. So are newcomers to these parts -- Bangladeshis -- whose community is spilling over the border from Queens. The Millennium Homes company has built or is building 32 two- and three-family homes, many of which are being bought by Bangladeshis, according to Shariar Uddin, Millennium's sales director. Women in burkas are now a common sight along Pitkin Avenue in the heart of East New York. Several mosques have opened and groceries now sell Bangladeshi vegetables, spices, and halal meats.
 ''You need to mix up with American culture, and this is a neighborhood with mixed people,'' said Mohammed Hamid, a 52-year-old Bangladeshi mechanical engineer who is buying one of the 17 three-family Millennium homes on Shepherd Avenue and Essex Street near Pitkin Avenue.
 Rashida Khanam, 46, a Bangladeshi widow with two daughters in college, chose to buy a three-family house in East New York rather than a more settled area like Astoria, Queens, where she has been renting, because the price was affordable. On periodic visits to a niece who already lived in East New York, she looked for evidence of any unpleasantness like crime that might change her mind. ''I didn't see anything bad,'' she said.
 ''I think the neighborhood will be O.K.,'' she said.
 The much-praised Nehemiah Housing program, put together by a coalition of local churches on vacant land turned over by the city, has already built 2,900 homes in East New York and is now taking orders for 576 homes it will build near the new Gateway Mall by Jamaica Bay, filling in the last large swath of undeveloped land in that area. The mall, with Home Depot and Target stores, already attracts New Yorkers from miles around. 
 The area's factories and distribution warehouses, where products like pasta and light fixtures are made or stored, are humming with workers once more, with a vacancy rate estimated by some real estate agents at under 10 percent compared to 25 percent a decade ago. The neighborhood's most notorious school, Thomas Jefferson High School, where in 1992 two teenagers were shot to death an hour before Mayor David N. Dinkins was to visit, has been divided into five more manageable mini-schools, with such themes as civil rights and fire safety. A new family entertainment center, Madd Fun, with bumper cars and laser tag, is scheduled to open in about a month in a former doll factory. 
 Ben Shavolian, a developer who has built 25 houses in East New York, said he has been selling two-family homes, many just in the blueprint stage, for between $325,000 and $400,000. City Councilman Charles Barron of Brooklyn said he was worried that local residents will not be able to afford the new houses and tries to press developers appearing before the Council's land use committee to find ways of lowering their prices.
 Mr. Wilkins, the Empire Zones coordinator, still notices the vestiges of earlier blight -- graffiti, buckled and weed-dappled sidewalks, boarded-up stores -- as well as the historically gritty features like the elevated train lines that have always kept East New York a working-class neighborhood. But he prefers to focus on the new houses sprouting on virtually every block he passes.
 ''It's not Shangri-La because you have the train,'' he said. ''But if you've been renting your whole life, this is the American dream.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Shariar Uddin, left, sales director of Millennium Homes, with Rashida Khanam and Mohammed Hamid, who have bought new homes in East New York.
Mr. Uddin prepared recently to show prospective buyers a home built by Millennium in East New York. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 39)
 Traditional and modern dress mixing in front of a store on Liberty Avenue in East New York, Brooklyn. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 42)Chart: ''Rebuilding Poor Neighborhoods''With real estate in established neighborhoods already very expensive, many poor neighborhoods have seen increases in population, income, educational attainment, and home buying. In many cases, these changes have occurred along with an influx of foreign-born residents. Here are three examples.Percentage increase between 1990 and 2000 in . . .EAST NEW YORK, BROOKLYNTotal population: 9.6Foreign-born: 42.0College-educated: 52.8Owner-occupied housing units: 42.7Median household income: 0.7MOTT HAVEN, BRONXTotal population: 7.0Foreign-born: 94.7College-educated: 86.5Owner-occupied housing units: 229.1Median household income: 29.1EAST HARLEM, MANHATTANTotal population: 10.6Foreign-born: 131.5College-educated: 44.8Owner-occupied housing units: 18.1Median household income: 10.0(Source by Analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data by the Queens College Department of Sociology)Maps of above mentioned areas. (pg. 42)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (85%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITIES (77%); HOME PRICES (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); CONSERVATISM (67%); TAX LAW (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); TAX INCENTIVES (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%) Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: Joseph Berger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



69 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Marrying Mr. Wong

BYLINE: By CRAIG SELIGMAN

 BODY:

THE LOVE WIFE
By Gish Jen.
379 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $24.95.
 IN her previous novels and stories, Gish Jen has mined the comedy of immigration, dispensing equal-opportunity satire to money-hungry Old World parents and their feckless New World children. (''One generation pure, the next good for nothing,'' a parent -- naturally -- observes early in her first novel.) She tells their stories in funny, surprising sentences, often warped with their uncertain grammar, and though her main characters are ethnically Chinese, they resonate for every American whose forebears didn't arrive either on the Mayflower or in chains. If her earlier novels, ''Typical American'' (1991) and ''Mona in the Promised Land'' (1996), were sometimes a little baggy, her 1999 collection of short stories, ''Who's Irish?'' suggested a new economy and a mastery of form.
 ''The Love Wife'' revisits Jen's familiar territory, but with the satire replaced by an overlay of therapy. We get another fierce, withholding mother in Mama Wong, a self-made real-estate mogul (''Where there is will, there is way'') who appears to be a stranger to affection. Her son, Carnegie, is, to her disgust, the kind of bleeding heart who'll pay a tenant's rent when he can't (and then get jeered by him for being a patsy). As a lone Chinese-American graduate student at a Midwestern university, he is asked for advice about an Asian baby left on the steps of a local church. He promptly adopts her, marrying the Connecticut blonde -- Mama Wong dubs her Blondie -- who shows up, conveniently, at the same time.
 The little girl, Lizzy, grows into a truculent teenager with identity problems, some of which she shares with Wendy, the Chinese sister the prospering Carnegie and Blondie adopt a few years later. The younger girl is shy; the elder is a sneering kid who harangues her mother endlessly for being a phony. (And, indeed, Blondie is a mealy-mouthed goody-goody with a New Age bent.) No doubt adopted children have many issues, but it's hard to work up too much sorrow for privilege, especially when it feels so sorry for itself. ''Honey,'' you want to tell her, ''we all have issues.''
 Jen's catalyst is Lan, a Shandongese relative Carnegie and Blondie bring over, largely through Mama Wong's machinations, as a nanny for the girls and Bailey, their year-old baby boy. From the minute Lan arrives, she despises Blondie, interpreting her every action -- willfully or not -- as hostile. Blondie, paying deference to what she assumes is Lan's need for privacy, sets her up in an apartment over the unattached garage (which houses a pet goat). Lan's reaction: ''Did not Blondie decide I should live in the barn with the goat instead of in the guest room?'' Blondie heaps Lan's plate with food, explaining, ''We treated her as if she were an honored guest, with that exaggerated politeness the Chinese love.'' Lan's reaction: ''Was it not completely fake? . . . Her smile hid a knife.'' But Lan bonds quickly with the daughters and almost as quickly with Carnegie. Blondie, the only member of the household with no Asian blood, finds herself an outsider in her own family -- while Carnegie, passive and beguiled, pretends nothing is happening.
 The outcome is inevitable. And if Jen had treated the story with the economy she brought to ''Who's Irish?'' she might have produced a compact, relentless and devastating book. Instead, she piles on the pages. She seems to be administering a talking cure to her characters. The novel is told ''Edie'' style, entirely in the first person, with the point of view shifting distractingly, often after just a few words, from the parents to the girls to Lan and back again. It's a terrible idea, and not just because it's distracting. For the first time, Jen's writing is bland and unremarkable. In striving to create credible voices for her characters, she's abandoned her own.
 She doesn't even allow us the small pleasure of hating the climbing, conniving Lan. In addition to offering a narrative of her sufferings during the Cultural Revolution, Jen puts her, in the last (and completely extraneous) hundred pages, through a series of horrors that seem designed solely to garner pity for this nanny version of Eve Harrington. They did increase my sympathy for Lan. But they wore out whatever sympathy I had left for Gish Jen.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 17, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture of Gish Jen, printed on Oct. 3 with a review of her novel ''The Love Wife,'' carried an erroneous credit. The photographer was J. D. Sloan.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Miriam Berkley)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%); ADOPTION (72%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: Gish Jen; Craig Seligman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



70 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The World: Identity Politics; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: In Sudan, No Clear Difference Between Arab and African

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: KHARTOUM, Sudan 

 BODY:
ABDALLA ADAM KHATIR, 50, is from Darfur, in western Sudan.
 His grandmother was an Arab, her grandfather was a member of an African tribe. He calls himself an African. 
 As a boy in Kabkabiya, deep in the heart of Darfur, he traveled three days by camel caravan to reach the nearest town with an intermediate school. The caravan was led by an Arab, but at no point did he or his family feel unsafe. 
 As a student here in the capital in the 1960's, he took up the banner of Arab-African unity, led by the Egyptian president Gamal Abdel Nasser. 
 But today, Mr. Khatir finds himself wrestling with the gut-wrenching fact that, in the past two years, 102 of his relatives have been killed in Darfur by those he calls Arabs.
 Yet in the end, Mr. Khatir, a writer and a member of the Darfur Writers and Journalists Association, does not view this as a war between Arabs and Africans. He blames it squarely on the government in Khartoum. Its leaders, he says, have deliberately inflamed nascent ethnic divisions in a bid to stay in power. 
 War broke out in western Sudan in early 2003, when a rebel insurrection, frustrated by what it called the Sudan government's marginalization of Darfur, demanded economic and political reforms. 
 The government swiftly struck back, deploying Arab militias across the region.
 The violence has killed tens of thousands of people and displaced around 1.5 million. 
 Across Darfur, it was largely the villages of Africans that were torched, and with some exceptions, it was largely tribes that call themselves African that crowded into refugee camps or fled across the border to Chad.
 The United States and others have accused the attackers of committing ''genocide,'' the systematic destruction of a national or ethnic group.
 Juan Mendez, the United Nations Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide, has said that crimes against humanity and war crimes ''probably occurred on a large and systematic scale.'' 
 The question is how does race or ethnicity fit in. For generations, race itself has not been all that significant in Darfurian society.
 People regularly referred to themselves by their tribe affiliation, and rarely as just ''Arab'' or ''African.'' 
 Arabs have been in the region for almost 1,000 years, and the term has been used mostly to describe those who speak Arabic, as opposed to one of the dozens of local languages, or to those who lead nomadic, not agricultural, existences.
 ''The implication that these are two different races, one indigenous and the other not, is dangerous,'' said Mahmood Mamdani, director of the Institute of African Studies at Columbia University. 
 But the Darfur crisis has laid bare an unspoken Arab-African fault line that runs across this arid belt of Africa -- from Mauritania in the west, to Sudan in the east. 
 Racial consciousness is, in fact, embedded in the history of central Africa. 
 Sudan, for example, was once a center of the Arab slave trade.
 In Mauritania, in West Africa, blackness, which was associated with slavery, is today associated with servitude. 
 Referring to underlying racial division, Breyten Breytenbach, the South African writer, said, ''It is one of the most ambiguous problems and greatest taboos on the continent.''
 What may have surprised everyone in Sudan was that as soon as the rebellion in Darfur began, divisions were drawn. By and large it was Arab tribes in Darfur that rallied to the government's side (some say in exchange for promises of land and power), while the government's political opponents raised the African banner and declared allegiance with the rebels. 
 Those lines could harden even more.
 The racial character given to the fighting in Darfur by the government and the rebels has found many willing listeners -- and the appeal to racial solidarity could extend itself to Chad or further afield to Niger or Mali, where the competition between farmers and nomadic herders could turn even uglier. 
 ''There's been a long-running effort to suppress recognition of racial tension,'' argued Salih Booker, executive director of Africa Action, a Washington-based advocacy group. ''It is something the continent has to grapple with.''
 But racial chauvinism, once let loose in a society, can be hard to put back in the bottle. And its effects can be murderous. 
 It is foolish, said Mr. Khatir, for any Sudanese to consider himself an Arab. 
 ''We are not Arabs, not Sudanese -- not even those who are telling themselves they are Arabs,'' he said.
 ''I am an African,'' he added, ''who has absorbed Arab and Islamic culture. The way I see it, our people, Arab tribes and African tribes, are victims of the national policies of this government. We are all victims.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of a rebel group in western Sudan are fighting the nation's rulers in Khartoum. (Photo by Lynsey Addario for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); GENOCIDE (87%); ETHNICITY (87%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (86%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); REFUGEES (73%); DISPLACED PERSONS (72%); WAR CRIMES (72%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (68%); JOURNALISM (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (90%) SUDAN (99%); AFRICA (93%); MAURITANIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



71 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: If Town Clears Out, It Must Be Squirrel Season

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: VILLE PLATTE, La., Oct. 2 

 BODY:
Before 7 a.m. Saturday, Jason Cary, 10, walked into an oak and palmetto forest with his father. Within 10 minutes, a fox squirrel began to bark and skitter from branch to branch.
 ''Dad, look, it's right there,'' Jason said, raising his 20-gauge shotgun and shooting an orange-hued fox squirrel with a tail a foot long.
 Squirrel season opened at dawn Saturday, and within minutes the report of shotguns boomed through this part of Evangeline Parish. Elsewhere, squirrels might be viewed as rats with good public relations. Here squirrel season's opening celebrates and preserves a distinct local custom at a time when many of the estimated half-million Cajuns have been assimilated into the broader culture. 
 Ville Platte High School shut down at noon on Friday. Sacred Heart High School did not open at all. Friday night schoolboy football -- a consuming passion in this Cajun prairie town of 9,000 -- was pushed back to Thursday night this week.
 Friday, instead, was a day for preparing, for loading pickup trucks with guns, pots, stoves, generators and all-terrain vehicles, and for heading into the woods.
 While fathers and sons hunt this weekend, wives and daughters shop in Baton Rouge, 70 miles to the east, or in Lafayette, 45 miles to the south. But some women cannot resist the woods, including Alycia McDaniel, the homecoming queen at Pine Prairie High. ''Excitement rushes through your body when you see a squirrel and you say, 'I've got to shoot it,''' she said. ''I like the trophy of it. It's not a deer, but I like to go with my boyfriend. If I kill more than the boys, they clown on them.'' 
 Squirrel hunting is a lesser-known tradition than the piquant Cajun food and fiddle and accordion music. But in the Ville Platte area it remains a vital rural ritual, like the local radio show spoken in Cajun French, the running of Mardi Gras on horseback, and the tapping of Easter eggs, end to end until they crack, in a game called paque-paque. 
 It is with apparent justification that Field and Stream magazine last month christened Ville Platte as Squirrel Town U.S.A. Some residents would rather take off from work this weekend than at Christmas.
 ''If you are a nonhunting burglar, at noon Friday you could get rich in Evangeline Parish,'' Ricky Vidrine, a hunting guide from Pine Prairie, said earlier in the week.
 Evangeline was the heroine of Longfellow's epic poem about the expulsion of the Acadians from Nova Scotia in the 1750's. Their descendants who settled in south Louisiana became known as Cajuns, who once hunted for subsistence more than for sport.
 Today, although squirrel meat is prized for its sweet taste in a brown sauce or in a gumbo, and brains are considered a delicacy by some, this opening weekend is ''about the outing, not the killing,'' said Stephen Mayeux, senior vice president of Citizens Bank in Ville Platte.
 It is a treasured bonding experience between fathers, sons and grandsons, some as young as 5. They sleep in tents, campers and wooden lodges called camps. Many prefer the camaraderie to the squirrels. They gather to hunt, watch or listen to the Louisiana State University football game, tell stories, cook, drink beer, play music and deal hands of poker and the Cajun game of bourre.
 ''That weekend is the one sure time you knew you were going camping with your dad,'' said Mr. Mayeux, who grew up in a family of 12. ''There's no doubt in my mind, when my son has his son, he's going to bring him squirrel hunting. I can't imagine not having this as part of my life and my children's lives.''
 Jody Bonnette said it felt ''like the seventh game of the World Series'' to have his 10-year-old son, Brody, experience his first squirrel hunt. Each shot two on Saturday morning in Avoyelles Parish north of here. Although nobody in his group bagged the daily limit of eight, Mr. Bonnette said: ''We got enough to eat tonight. We're O.K. We'll cook, drink a few beers and tell some lies.''
 Despite the bonhomie of hunting, he said, it stings when outsiders sometimes snicker at the closing of school for the opening of the season.
 ''These boys learn more about life and the outdoors than they get in two months of school,'' Mr. Bonnette, manager of Cary's Sporting Goods in Ville Platte, said.
 The most expert hunters creep silently among pine, oak, hickory, beech, cypress and pecan trees, looking for gray squirrels and the larger fox squirrels. They often hear the squirrels before they see them and can keenly divine the signs of prey -- acorns eaten from the middle, as humans eat Oreo cookies, and stems of pine cones that twirl to the ground like rotors of a helicopter.
 Some go to extraordinary lengths to hunt. Mike Murphy, an oil field worker, was so determined to shoot squirrels after undergoing knee surgery in the mid-1980's that he limped into the woods with an aluminum cane. Problem was, he covered the cane in camouflage tape. After crawling into the brush after a fallen squirrel, he could not locate the disguised walking stick until he inadvertently bumped it with the barrel of his gun.
 Many hunted two years ago, even after Hurricane Lilly knocked out power to the area for several days. Construction workers from Evangeline Parish moved to Atlanta when the oil economy went bust here in the 1980's; nostalgic for hunting season back home, some began trapping squirrels in a campground.
 ''Five or six, enough to make a sauce,'' Tim Fontenot, a physical therapist, said. ''Everybody loves to cook a sauce here. Turtle, rabbit, squirrel. If E.T. came to Louisiana, he'd be in a sauce, too.''
 Until the late 1970's or early 1980's, Evangeline Parish kept its schools open a full day on the Friday before squirrel season opened. But many students were absent, and costs for substitute teachers soared. 
 ''Finally, we said, 'Why beat our heads against the wall?' and it became one of our holidays,'' Andrew Ducote, the principal at Sacred Heart High, said.
 Playing football on Friday would have been futile, too. ''We would have had no fans, no coaches, no players, no water boys,'' Elton Williams, the coach at Ville Platte High, said.
 In 2000, Port Barre High, a state football power in neighboring St. Landry Parish, forced Sacred Heart to play there on the Friday night before squirrel season started, apparently believing few fans would show up to support the visitors, Mr. Fontenot said. To the contrary, Sacred Heart fans not only went, but also blew air horns to intimidate the home team, and the Trojans beat Port Barre for the first time in 17 years, he said. 
 ''They made the squirrel gods angry,'' Mr. Fontenot added. 
 By 7:30 a.m. Saturday, Melvin Reed had bagged his limit for the day. Some hunters will kill 500 or more squirrels by the time the season ends on Feb. 28.
 A half-hour after his son, Jason, got his first squirrel in the swampy lowland north of here, Mark Cary blew a small, circular squirrel-calling device in several bursts, creating a whistling sound. Mr. Cary also shook a handful of palmetto fronds, trying to lure squirrels with a feigned signal of distress. 
 The early-morning fog had mostly burned off, leaving the oak trees and their inhabitants more visible. A leaf dropped, and Mr. Cary looked up to see three gray squirrels.
 They are smaller but more tender than fox squirrels and are known around here as cat squirrels because of their nervous speed. Two bolted in one direction and a third began climbing in another direction, then sat quietly, its tail curled, as if trying to camouflage itself as a knot in the tree.
 ''I was either going to be a fool and shoot part of the tree or get a squirrel,'' said Mr. Cary, 42, who operates one of the largest family-owned sporting goods stores in Louisiana. ''I used my instincts, and sure enough it was a squirrel.'' 
 The squirrel fell from the tree, and Mr. Cary poked it with his 12-gauge shotgun to make sure it was dead.
 ''If you pick up a live squirrel, you never will again,'' Mr. Cary said, exposing the animal's large and sharp front teeth. ''They bite and they hold on. I had a cousin once who got his face all scarred up.''
 On Thursday, Mr. Cary gave Jason an early birthday present: a large fox squirrel the boy had killed last year mounted on a piece of driftwood. 
 The obsession with squirrel hunting is such that years ago, The Ville Platte Gazette ran a ''Find the Squirrel'' contest, which challenged readers to circle the furry-tailed creatures in photographs of trees.
 This week, The Gazette ran a front-page picture of a squirrel found in the backyard of a local couple who had nurtured it with apples and nuts. The caption was headlined, ''Fox squirrel found, safe for the weekend!'' 
 The Gazette's publisher, David Ortego, operates a kind of squirrel Rotisserie league, keeping a record of quarry bagged by each member of his hunting group, the Magnificent 7, since 1979. The winner of this year's Magnificent 7 hunt will receive a trophy and a commemorative license plate. By Monday, pickup trucks in Evangeline Parish will be adorned with squirrel tails as a measure of individual sharpshooting. 
 As Alycia McDaniel said, ''It's what you get for being country.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Alycia McDaniel, homecoming queen at Pine Prairie High School, with Danette Cloud, left, her aunt.
Jason Cary, center, admires his birthday gift, the first squirrel he shot with his father, Mark, left. (Photographs by Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times)(pg. 36)
 Mark Cary and his son, Jason, watching and listening for squirrels yesterday, the opening day of the hunting season in Evangeline Parish, La. (Photo by Michael Mohr for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RODENTS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); SPORT HUNTING (78%); EASTER SEASON (75%); CHRISTMAS (70%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); POETRY (50%) Hunting and Trapping; Squirrels; Cajuns

PERSON: Jere Longman

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (72%) Louisiana; Evangeline Parish (La); Ville Platte (La)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



72 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Westchester; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: 'Dejeme Ayudarlo,' the Ad Says

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
''EL SUENO AMERICANO'' -- the American Dream -- promises the sign in the window of Mark J. Seiden's new real estate agency in Ossining.
 ''Esta pensando en comprar o vender una propiedad?'' asks an advertisement in the Yellow Pages of a Spanish-language phone directory -- ''Are you thinking of buying or selling property?''
 ''Dejeme ayudarlo,'' the ad by Sendon Homes in Sleepy Hollow continues. ''Let me help you.'' 
 In White Plains, Nicholas Wolff, the owner of Century 21 Wolff, has hired four new bilingual sales agents and is co-sponsoring workshops for first-time Hispanic home buyers.
 In Irvington, Bernice Gottlieb, the owner of Hudson Shores Real Estate, has hired a consultant to teach her staff ''the niceties, like how to say 'good morning' and 'welcome' in Spanish, because today you have to know these things,'' she said. Ms. Gottlieb has also just opened a new branch in Sleepy Hollow that is staffed with only bilingual agents. 
 In Yonkers, Dawn Roman, an owner of Century 21 Dawn's Gold Realty, reported last week that Latino buyers are snapping up multifamily homes near Getty Square and near the border with Riverdale in the Bronx.
 And at Prudential Rand in Tarrytown, the story is a similar one. Mike Criscuolo, the branch manager, said many multifamily residences that were once owned by assembly line workers at the General Motors plant, which has since closed, are being purchased these days by Hispanic buyers.
 Indeed, throughout the county, real estate brokers are courting what has become an increasingly potent market force. Census figures show that out of Westchester's total population of 923,459 people in 2000, 144,124 were Hispanics. This group constitutes the county's largest and fastest growing minority -- 15.6 percent of the population at the most recent census, compared with 9.9 percent in 1990. Nationally, too, Hispanics have passed blacks to become the largest minority group and a strong economic force, reports show. 
 According to Westchester's Department of Planning, Yonkers has the largest number of Spanish-speaking residents: 50,852. But there are also large groups in New Rochelle, White Plains and Port Chester. Another 13,235 Latinos live in the area that is encompassed by Ossining, Briarcliff Manor and Tarrytown. 
 Mr. Seiden, the Ossining broker, opened El Sueno Americano last spring to meet the needs of the growing market and to avoid losing sales because he did not speak Spanish. A broker in Westchester for more than 20 years, he has hired a bilingual staff for the new business and developed a referral network that includes Spanish-speaking mortgage bankers, lawyers and home inspectors. 
 As Mr. Seiden's promotional material reads: ''Owning a home, it's the American dream. It's become a universal goal for people from all cultures and walks of life. Everyone wants their own place to call home. A special place where they can proudly raise their family and create memories that will last a lifetime.''
 Among the broker's new clients are Luis Uyaguari, a carpenter, and his wife, Nancy Chica. The couple, who emigrated from Azuay, Ecuador, eight years ago, are now raising a family in an apartment in Ossining. Tired of paying rent, they recently asked agents at El Sueno Americano to find them a multifamily home, one with a rental apartment to help defray their costs. But so far, home ownership has eluded them. ''It's been a struggle,'' Mr. Uyaguari said.
 As Mr. Seiden noted, ''Real estate is already complicated for buyers who use English as their main language, so for someone who speaks only a little of the language, it can be next to impossible.''
 For Mr. Uyaguari and Ms. Chica and other Hispanic home buyers, there are complex preapproval mortgage forms, which are written in English, to wade through, along with other legal contracts that often confound even those fluent in the language.
 The language barrier also sets them up as potential prey. As Mr. Wolff, the owner of Century 21 Wolff in White Plains, said, ''Latinos sometimes find themselves at the mercy of unscrupulous mortgage bankers.''
 Martha Sendon, the owner of Sendon Homes Real Estate, added, ''There are also those who take advantage of people who don't speak English and sell them homes that aren't in good condition.'' Ms. Sendon, a native of Ecuador, specializes in serving Spanish-speaking clients.
 Their vulnerabilities notwithstanding, buyers like Juan Barreto, a landscaper who moved to Ossining 20 years ago from Giron, Ecuador, have been determined to become property owners. ''In America, I own my own business, and I own my own house,'' he said. Mr. Barreto, whose home is in Ossining, now has his eye on a fixer-upper in Peekskill.
 To reduce some of the language barrier for this group of clients, Mr. Seiden has hired experts to translate New York state real estate forms into Spanish; heretofore, they have been available only in English.
 The Westchester County Board of Realtors, which is in White Plains, will soon begin distributing the Spanish versions to all brokers who are members of the Multiple Listing Service, said P. Gil Mercurio, the executive vice president of the board.
 Especially when it comes to money matters, many immigrant groups feel far more comfortable doing business in their native language, explained Julio Salazar Jr., a co-owner of Residential Home Funding, a mortgage banking company in Briarcliff.
 Centro Hispano, an outreach and advocacy group, runs workshops once or twice a year for new home buyers, said Judith Aucar, assistant director of the organization. ''Our numbers are growing,'' Ms. Aucar said, ''and Spanish-speaking people are becoming part of the American mainstream. But to do that, they also need to learn how to accomplish those goals.''
 In the seminars, Hispanic lawyers, real estate agents and inspectors explain their roles, and lenders discuss savings plans and methods of establishing credit.


GRAPHIC: Photo: LOWERING THE LANGUAGE BARRIER -- At El Sueno Americano in Ossining, a bilingual staff handles new business
 from left, Mildred Sambrano, Clara Campos, Gladys Villa and Mark J. Seiden. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); YELLOW PAGES ADVERTISING (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); SALES FORCE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (72%); CENSUS (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (68%); POPULATION SIZE (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); MORTGAGE BANKING (50%) Housing; Brokers and Brokerage Firms; Hispanic-Americans; Spanish Language

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: Elsa Brenner; Mark J Seiden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



73 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; THE LAW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Towns Seek Traffic Funds

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER

 BODY:
IT was only seven added words in the State Vehicle and Traffic Law -- ''with which the defendant was originally charged'' -- but it is costing many municipalities dearly. 
 Tucked in the New York State budget, which passed in August, was an amendment to the law directing that revenues from specified traffic violations, mostly speeding, be distributed to either the state or municipalities based on the violation an individual was initially charged with. In the past, municipalities received fine money from motorists who plead speeding tickets down to lesser violations. Now the state will get that money. The state budget office estimates that villages, towns and cities will lose about $22 million in funds as a result of the change. 
 ''Nobody noticed that the municipalities were going to get gypped at the expense of the state, which is a money pit that never ends,'' said Valerie Moore O'Keeffe, supervisor for the Town of Mamaroneck. 
 To help make losses under the change more palatable, the law gives municipalities the option of imposing an additional surcharge of $10 on vehicle and traffic violations where a mandatory surcharge is already in effect, typically most moving violations, said officials from the New York State Division of the Budget. 
 Each municipality, however, must pass a law to impose the surcharge, which will be good for only one year.
 ''There will be a lag time before localities are able to begin collecting the surcharge,'' said Alan G. Hevesi, the state comptroller, in an announcement last month accompanying an analysis of the impact of the change. In addition, he said, the provision allowing the surcharge expires Sept. 1, 2005, but the change in the distribution of the revenue, which took effect when the budget passed in August, has no sunset date.
 The Pataki administration sought the change in the law, state budget officials said, because in the majority of cases affected by the change the tickets are written by state police officers, and it helps ensure that the state gets the money to supports its own law enforcement. 
 According to the analysis by the comptroller's office, which used 2003 data and looked only at towns and villages, 95 percent of the municipalities examined would lose money as a result of the new law, and about half would lose more than 20 percent of their current revenues from fines. Over all, the comptroller estimated the municipalities, not including cities, would lose $14 million.
 But, according to the analysis, the change in revenues would vary greatly, and while the biggest losers would see a decrease of about 70 percent in fine revenues, about 5 percent of the municipalities surveyed -- about 30 towns and villages -- would actually see an increase in those funds, with the largest gain being about 10 percent. The analysis found a wide range of gains, from $5 to $13,000.
 Jennifer Freeman, a spokeswoman for the comptroller, said the reason some municipalities stand to gain is that, under the change in the law, revenues from local traffic violations reduced to a state charge would go into municipal coffers rather than to the state. 
 The comptroller's survey estimated that if municipalities added the surcharge where they could, that they could generate about $9 million annually in revenue.
 ''I think the surcharge money is tenuous at best,'' said Kevin Crawford, general counsel to the Association of Towns of the State of New York in Albany.
 Ms. O'Keeffe and other local officials say the budget move will leave taxpayers taking up the slack. 
 ''The state is robbing municipalities of monies that have always been ours,'' said Paul J. Feiner, supervisor for the Town of Greenburgh. ''Property taxpayers are going to be hurt because every town, city and village is going to have to make up the revenue.'' 
 Based on initial, incomplete information, Greenburgh officials estimated the town would lose more than $465,000 in revenues from traffic fines. But, according to the comptroller's analysis, Greenburgh would gain from the change, with more than $10,000 generated in additional revenues from fines. Richard Santorsola, assistant court administrator in Greenburgh, was pleased by the report, but skeptical. ''It's going to be interesting to see when we get our August numbers,'' he said, referring to the figures on traffic fine distribution. ''I think that's really going to be the proof of the pudding for me.''
 State legislators made aware of the impact of the change in the law, have moved to try to repeal it. On Sept. 20, the State Assembly passed a bill reversing the language, and there is a similar bill pending in the State Senate.
 ''I don't think we had any interest in hurting our localities,'' said Assemblywoman Sandra R. Galef, who represents northern Westchester and parts of Putnam County. ''It's a huge budget and it just didn't get the attention it should have.''
 According to the analysis conducted by the comptroller, the biggest losers among towns and villages in Westchester -- not including cities -- are Bedford, with a loss of $92,725, followed by Harrison, at $36,149, and North Salem, at $24,395. 
 Sy Globerman, supervisor of the Town of North Salem, was unfazed by the impact of the change, saying, ''I've been assured it's going to be reversed.''
 The comptroller's figures show the Town of Mamaroneck would lose $9,260, and Ms. O'Keeffe said the impact would be felt in service delivery.
 ''It's not tremendous but it's significant,'' she said. ''If this is a harbinger of things to come this is a bad sign.''
 Gov. George E. Pataki has said he supports giving the traffic fine money to the municipality if a way can be found to make up the revenue.
 ''We would need to reduce the cost that the other programs place on the state for us to be able to do that,'' he said during an informal questioning by the news media after an event in Niagara County recently.
 Local officials remain optimistic that an alternative will be found.
 ''When you have difficult economic times each level of government is going to look for ways to find new sources of revenue, '' said Anne Janiak, executive director of the Westchester Municipal Officials Association, which represents the 45 cities, towns and villages in the county. ''We don't consider this a good way. I think they heard our message by their actions and by the new bills.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICULAR OFFENSES (92%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE CRIME (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); SPEED LIMITS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CITIES (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); CRIMINAL FINES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); BUDGET FORECASTS (72%) Traffic Violations ; Fines (Penalties); Traffic Violations 

PERSON: Barbara Whitaker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



74 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Growing Pains

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON

DATELINE: YONKERS 

 BODY:
IN the early years of the last century, vaudeville and theater flourished in this former factory town, with entertainers from John Philip Sousa to Helen Hayes appearing in the ballroom of the Philipsburgh Building. These days, local officials are hoping to recapture some of that illustrious past by creating a cultural center downtown.
 One focus of their efforts is the Philipsburgh Performing Arts Center, a two-year-old group that presents performances, community events and classes in the Philipsburgh Building, a Beaux-Arts landmark celebrating its 100th anniversary this year.
 Matilda Hohensee, the center's executive director, has organized a season of salsa dance classes, children's acting classes, lunchtime classical music concerts and other events meant to appeal to a diverse population and liven up the downtown scene. With sharply discounted tickets aimed at attracting crowds, Ms. Hohensee is confident the crowds will eventually come. 
 But while the renaissance is in sight, it is not quite at the door, she said. 
 The Rev. S. Burtner Ulrich, chairman of the center's board, agreed. ''I think we're growing, but it's slower than I had hoped,'' said Father Ulrich, who is rector of the neighboring St. John's Episcopal Church, a historic structure where Ms. Hohensee has an office and some center events are held.
 Father Ulrich, who led the effort to buy the Philipsburgh Building and start an arts center there, joined Ms. Hohensee in an interview in the building's gracious ballroom, with its skylight, three curved balconies, tidy stage and carved plaster designs. The building was erected in 1904 as an office building, and eventually became an apartment house. But it had languished in poor repair for decades and was condemned in 1997 after a fire. 
 City officials suggested that the church form a partnership with the Greyston Foundation, a Yonkers-based group that runs both nonprofit and for-profit service organizations. The new entity, the Philipsburgh Hall Association, bought and restored the building for $7.5 million. The association rents out 28 apartments in the building, 22 of them as residences and work spaces for artists. The arts center and a caterer occupy the first floor. 
 The center is near downtown's Getty Square, which has declined in recent years. But developers have been buying empty storefronts, and Father Ulrich is hopeful that retail stores and eateries will begin to open up. Still, the square and its problems pose a significant challenge to the center's audience-building efforts.
 ''Getty Square has not had the best reputation,'' Father Ulrich said. ''I've seen it nosedive, and now it's coming back.'' 
 He and Ms. Hohensee, who has worked as an artists' manager and is the former general manager of the Garth Fagan Dance Company in Rochester, have other reasons for some optimism about the city. Several blocks from the square, on and near the waterfront, a building boom in new market-rate housing is under way. A 160-seat outdoor amphitheater was recently built adjacent to the pier, and an upscale restaurant is planned for the waterfront. New co-op apartments are being built near the center of town for members of the Actors Federal Credit Union. As an added inducement for new residents, ferry service from Yonkers to 34th Street in Manhattan will soon begin.
 The city also got a boost on Sept. 17, when it received the Phoenix Award for the Larkin Center, the soaring glass home of the Riverfront Library and the Yonkers Board of Education built on the formerly contaminated site of the Otis Elevator Company. The award is given by the Phoenix Awards Institute, a nonprofit group based in Harrisburg, Pa., for efforts in reuse of contaminated land; it was also presented to 13 other communities in the United States and Germany. 
 Edward Sheeran, executive director of the Yonkers office of economic development, said the city may reopen the Procter Theater, a 70-year-old 2,300 seat ''gracious, old-style'' theater on South Broadway, near the Philipsburgh Building. It has been closed for decades but is ''completely intact,'' Mr. Sheeran said. 
 ''We did a marketing study,'' he added. ''If there was a need for the theater 50 years ago, there is a bigger need today.''
 The theater, which is inside a larger building that is used for offices, would cost $10 million to restore, he said. Under the new building code there would be 1,500 seats. 
 Mr. Sheeran also said Mayor Phil Amicone had appointed a 12-member performing arts committee that is to work closely with the arts center. 
 The center is holding a 100th-birthday party for the Philipsburgh Building along with a benefit gala for its own programs next Saturday at 7 p.m. at the center. Those programs have expanded; a film series, readings and visual arts gallery are all new this fall.
 Father Ulrich said the center can offer something for everyone. He and others connected with the center express hope that it can help fill the gap left by the Yonkers school system, which, faced with a $25 million budget shortfall this year, has eliminated art and music from most classrooms.
 ''You can renew the city, but you also have to renew the people who are here,'' he said. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Preschool children in a theater program at the Philipsburgh Performing Arts Center, housed in the Philipsburgh Building in Yonkers. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); DANCE (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); DANCE EDUCATION (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); CITIES (73%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); CALENDARS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (68%); RESTAURANTS (61%); RETAILERS (60%) Culture; Historic Buildings and Sites; St John's Episcopal Church (Yonkers, Ny)

ORGANIZATION: Philipsburgh Performing Arts Center (Yonkers, Ny)

PERSON: S Burtner (Rev) Ulrich; Roberta Hershenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%) Yonkers (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



75 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The World; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Iraq's New Police: Scared, but at Least Employed

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq 

 BODY:
THE olive-green Peugeot sedan sat beneath the noon sun in a dirt lot by the police station. Small and mottled with rust, it looked as threatening as a rotten avocado. But it had been resting unattended for five hours, which was about four hours too long for police officers worried about car bombs.
 Capt. Fouad Hadi barked orders. Several officers pushed the car across the lot. ''It's all up to our God,'' the captain said, a walkie-talkie crackling in one hand. ''Our spirits are still high. The attacks on us give us more motivation to fight the thugs and outlaws.'' 
 In the end, it proved to be just a parked jalopy, and the police went on to worrying about what form the next real threat might take -- like the 35 or so suicide car bombs that exploded in September, many aimed at the nascent Iraqi security forces and would-be recruits lined up outside police stations and national guard centers.
 Senior American commanders here all say the outcome of this increasingly grim war -- and the ability of Americans to leave eventually -- depends on standing up Iraqi security forces that can take over many of the policing duties now handled with questionable effectiveness by the 140,000 American soldiers here. The police force will be the largest component.
 But these days, the Iraqi police spend as much time protecting themselves as guarding the public. The police are key targets in the insurgents' campaign to cripple the interim Iraqi government, and hospital wards are filling with dazed men lying in blood-drenched blue uniforms.
 To listen to Iraq's new police officers is to hear the voices of under-equipped and under-trained men, often unnerved by the danger but determined to work. They hope that if they can feed their families and calm their country, their lives may get better. They say they are committed to building a new Iraq, but many are skeptical about the Americans who insist they were sent here to do the same thing. Some even say they are willing to turn their guns on the soldiers.
 At least 750 police officers were killed between the fall of Baghdad in April 2003 and June this year, according to Interior Ministry statistics, and scores more have been slain since then. In addition, hundreds of potential recruits were killed in bombings.
 In the southern city of Basra, some policemen have begun wearing black ski masks to hide their identities, giving them more than a passing resemblance to the shadowy jihadists they are supposed to be fighting.
 But like Captain Hadi, many police officers and potential recruits say the violence does not shake their resolve to serve. For sure, it does not shake their need to bring home a paycheck. Iraq's unemployment rate is 50 percent, and police officers earn a relatively high average salary, equivalent to $228 a month. So the number of people applying for jobs has not dropped, Col. Adnan Abdul-Rahman, an Interior Ministry spokesman, said.
 Ayad Hussein, 24, a recruit recovering in Karama Hospital from shrapnel wounds suffered in a car bombing, said he was not deterred. ''There are no other jobs, no opportunities offered,'' he said.
 If a police officer is killed on duty, the family gets a payment equivalent to $690 and continues getting the officer's salary indefinitely, Colonel Abdul-Rahman said. 
 But some officers complain that they have yet to see promised raises.
 ''They said there would be a bonus last month for fighting the Mahdi Army,'' said Sgt. Rafid Rashid, 34, referring to the Shiite militia that rose in rebellion in August. ''But we got nothing.''
 Many officers also express frustration that they are issued assault rifles and pistols, while insurgents often have rocket-propelled grenades and mortars. Many also complain of a shortage of good body armor.
 The elaborate defenses surrounding stationhouses are testaments to the hazards. At the headquarters of the Organized Crime Unit in western Baghdad, where Captain Hadi's men were spooked by the parked car, a labyrinth of sand-filled barriers and metal-spiked speed bumps lies between the parking lot and the front door. Insurgents have attacked the building using mortars and cars packed with explosives. Black funeral banners proclaiming the martyrdom of comrades drape some barriers.
 ''We always keep in mind the worst thing that can happen,'' Gen. Abdul Razzaq al-Samarrai, chief of police in Baghdad, said at a recent news conference. ''Right now, we think these attacks will continue until January.'' That is when elections are scheduled.
 The force has 39,000 trained officers now, and the American military hopes to have more than 60,000 on hand for the elections, Capt. Steven Alvarez, a United States military spokesman, said. The ultimate goal is 140,000. But Reuters recently cited Pentagon documents saying that only 8,169 have had the full eight-week academy training. 
 Even if one takes the military's numbers at face value, there is no way to measure the loyalty and morale of the officers.
 Sergeant Rashid said he had to use his own money to fill the gas tank of his squad car and to buy decent blue shirts for his uniform. ''Even very ordinary tasks are dangerous these days,'' he said. ''We're afraid, but we do our job. It's kind of a national motivation. Who will protect our country if I quit and others quit?''
 Many policemen said the occupation forces had botched Iraq's security, and it was now up to Iraqis to fix it. At the site of a roadside bomb explosion in Baghdad that killed three Iraqi security guards, the police arrived an hour before American soldiers showed up, and struggled to keep a growing crowd away from the bloody wreck.
 ''All of our families, they don't like this job, they want us to quit,'' said Sgt. Ahmed Abdul Ilaa, 25. ''But if I did that and the next person did that, what will become of our country?'' Next to him stood Sgt. Husham Abdul Zahara . ''If we depend on the Americans,'' he said, ''we'll never have security or stability.''
 Earlier that morning, at dawn, a half-dozen policemen were sitting around at a cafe in the same neighborhood eating eggs and bread. They smoked and drank tea and read in a newspaper of how three policemen had been killed by a suicide car bomb in the capital the previous day. A 32-year-old chief sergeant who declined to give his name made a distinction between killing policemen and killing Americans.
 ''The mujahedeen,'' he said, referring to Iraqi Islamist fighters, ''are my brothers, but when policemen are killed, it is not the mujahedeen; those people are Wahhabis and terrorists like Zarqawi and Osama.'' Now he was referring to the branch of fundamentalist Islam associated with Saudi Arabia and followed by Osama bin Laden and Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, a Jordanian.
 ''I like the mujahedeen,'' he said, ''because they fight the Americans.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqi policemen go on patrol with assault rifles and, in some cases, good body armor. The insurgents have rocket-propelled grenades. (Photo by Max Becherer/Polaris) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (92%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); SEDANS (89%); MILITARY RECRUITING (88%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); SUICIDE (68%); IRAQ WAR (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); HOSPITALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



76 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 13; Column 1; Television; COVER STORY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Same Cerebral Sleuth, Different Face

BYLINE: By MARILYN STASIO

 BODY:
NOBODY at PBS would ever put it so crudely, but a literary sex symbol has quietly undergone a radical transformation. American viewers will get the shocking news about P.D. James's madly attractive Scotland Yard detective, Cmdr. Adam Dalgliesh, when ''Mystery!'' wraps up its summer season tonight with the first of two 90-minute episodes of ''Death in Holy Orders.'' 
 Will the e-mail messages fly at the conspicuous absence of Roy Marsden, the tall, soulful British actor who played Dalgliesh in all 10 installments of the series, which began in 1985 as a WGBH-ITV co-production? Will the switchboard light up when longtime fans are introduced to Martin Shaw, the British television star who has replaced him? The suspense, although politely muted, is nonetheless killing.
 Ms. James, the celebrated 84-year-old author whose many honors include a life peerage (as Baroness James of Holland Park), made a brief shore appearance when the Queen Mary II put into port in New York this summer. During an interview at the Michelangelo Hotel, she acknowledged that longtime viewers might find it ''difficult to adjust'' to a new actor inhabiting the role of her famously sensitive poet-detective but then offered her own reassuring view of the change. 
 ''Dalgliesh is a difficult part for an actor because he's very cerebral; his main activity is interviewing people and reacting to what people are saying,'' she said. ''I think Martin Shaw does that very well because he's a cerebral actor, an intelligent actor who went to considerable trouble to understand this character.'' For the benefit of American viewers unfamiliar with Mr. Shaw's matinee-idol status in Britain, she added, ''He is also quite physically attractive.''
 As for the decision to replace Roy Marsden, Ms. James attributed it to the understandable aim of a new production company -- in this case, the BBC, which took over the franchise after ITV allowed it to lapse -- to imprint its own signature on a popular series. ''Whenever a new company comes in, they want to start afresh. They want a new actor, a new Dalgliesh; otherwise, they are just carrying on someone else's tradition.''
 Ms. James's awareness of the realities of the television industry does not come from personal involvement in the making of the series; in fact, she has always made a point of distancing herself from the process. But she is sensitive to the traditions of beloved institutions and how they must change with the times or risk being swept away; and by coincidence or design, this also happens to be the theme of ''Death in Holy Orders.''
 Set in a High Anglican ecclesiastical college spectacularly situated on the towering cliffs at the edge of the North Sea, the mystery opens with the apparently accidental death of a theology student who perishes when a sea wall collapses. But when Dalgliesh arrives on the scene and confers with his old mentor, Father Martin (Robert Hardy), he finds abundant motive for murder within the insular world of a religious community fighting to preserve its traditions. 
 Although renowned for its scholarship under Father Sebastian (Alan Howard), the eminent theologian who serves as college warden, the richly endowed St. Anselm's has been judged arrogant, elitist and woefully out of date by the archdeacon (Clive Wood). Pontificating that ''a church will not survive unless it descends from its ivory tower,'' he threatens to shut down the college and sell off its treasures, which include a priceless if grotesque altarpiece, an ancient papyrus that could rock the foundations of church dogma and a ''first-class wine cellar.''
 While declaring herself a traditionalist on matters of church liturgy (''I like the mystery of it. I like the form of it. I like the rituals of it''), Ms. James said she could understand the internal struggle within established religions to maintain tradition while offering something meaningful to nontraditional congregants. For that reason, she was pleased with the care taken by the BBC to dramatize her characters in all their complexity and to show the existential precipice over which St. Anselm's hangs.
 ''I suppose it's rather like a symbol of a decaying faith,'' she said of the stark image of the old stone college clinging to the edge of a cliff. ''It's a real problem, the great storms in the North Sea biting away at that coast, bit by bit. The characters who live in my theological college realize that 30 years on, their chapel is going to be underneath the sea.''
 Rebecca Eaton, the executive producer of ''Mystery!'' for WGBH in Boston, credits the BBC with the atmospheric setting and richly textured interiors of St. Anselm's that found favor with the author. ''The BBC is famous for bringing a sense of authenticity and attention to detail,'' she said, adding that shooting with film, rather than videotape, gives a ''much softer, more filmic'' look to ''Death in Holy Orders'' and to ''The Murder Room,'' which follows it in the series.
 ''But the main question is whether viewers will fall in love with Martin Shaw the way they fell in love with Roy Marsden,'' Ms. Eaton said. ''As an actor, Martin is very different from Roy. But he shares that inwardness, that essential melancholy, that unreachable sadness that drives women crazy.'' She also predicted that viewers would be drawn to the romance that develops between Dalgliesh and Emma Lavenham (Janie Dee), a resident tutor at St. Anselm's. ''They didn't actually give him a love interest in the early stories, so he was always very lonely. Here, they give him one right from the start.''
 Robert Jones, who adapted both ''Death in Holy Orders'' and ''The Murder Room,'' also noted that the romance between Dalgliesh and Emma was ''actually in the book'' -- he just wrote an intimate scene on the beach to establish it. 
 Since Mr. Jones did not go back to watch previous shows, he had no preconceptions about Ms. James's brooding hero and felt free to do what adapters tend to do -- adapt him. ''In the novels, Dalgliesh is a man of few words who tends to ruminate and has no confidants, so we had to make him more talkative,'' he said, adding that he had ''bumped up'' those occasions when Dalgliesh confides in his pastoral mentor, Father Martin. ''But in the end,'' he said, ''I tried to make a virtue of the fact that he's a loner and doesn't say very much.''
 For someone who is being watched like a hawk by several million pairs of eyes, Martin Shaw has handled all the fuss with Dalgliesh-like aplomb. ''It's a difficult role to play, that's for sure,'' Mr. Shaw said. ''If you play a taciturn character the way he is in a novel, it's boring. The challenge is to make his internal thought processes apparent.'' 
 Although he attributed his technique to years of acting experience, Mr. Shaw did share one secret: ''I find that the very best way to play an introspective man like Dalgliesh is to listen very intently to what is being said to you. Then choose the most significant thing said and react to it in the most economical way possible.''
 Like Dalgliesh, who spent happy summers at St. Anselm's as a boy, Ms. James experienced something of a homecoming when she visited the show's film set. ''Of all the characters in all my books, the characters in 'Death in Holy Orders' have most stayed in my mind,'' she said. ''I often find myself thinking: Well, Father Sebastian would certainly have something to say about that. It didn't ever occur to me before, but I have a great affinity with these characters.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: On the cover: Martin Shaw as Cmdr. Adam Dalgliesh. (Photo by BBC)(pg. 1)
The cast of ''Death in Holy Orders'' includes, clockwise from left: Alan Howard as Father Sebastian Morell, Martin Shaw as Cmdr. Adam Dalgliesh, Robert Hardy as Father Martin Petrie, John Clegg as Father John Betterton and Janie Dee as Emma Lavenham. Below right: Roy Marsden, the original Dalgliesh. (Photographs of Mr. Marsden from Anglia Television
 all others from the BBC)(pgs. 4, 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); WRITERS (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RELIGION (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



77 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Full Serve, No Choice

BYLINE: By BART J. WILSON and THOMAS FIREY. 
Bart J. Wilson is an associate professor of economics at the Interdisciplinary Center for Economic Science at George Mason University. Thomas Firey is managing editor of Regulation magazine, published by the Cato Institute.

 BODY:
Sometime in the coming weeks, New York lawmakers will quietly send to Gov. George Pataki a business welfare bill that passed both houses of the Legislature earlier this year after having languished in Albany for more than two decades. If the governor signs the bill into law, it will bring a long-awaited victory to a small group of politically well-connected businessmen and give New York drivers even more reason to complain the next time they fuel up their cars.
 The legislation, sponsored by Assemblyman Peter Abbate, a Brooklyn Democrat, and Senator Kenneth LaValle, a Republican who represents Long Island's East End, would protect gas station franchise owners from competition by prohibiting oil companies from opening their own gas stations within one to two miles of their franchisees. For instance, even if there is plenty of customer demand for a new Shell station with a full-service convenience mart, the bill would prohibit the refiner from building one if a franchised Shell station was nearby. The law would in effect award the franchise owners monopoly zones for their brand of gas, which is a valuable asset given drivers' historically strong brand loyalty. That freedom from competition means more profits for the franchisee and higher prices and inferior service for customers. 
 Why would New York hand out such anti-consumer business welfare? Because the franchisees make up a powerful lobby and the last two decades have not been kind to the traditional gas stations they tend to operate. What consumers want from gas stations has changed, and that has transformed the industry. Instead of service bays and a stockroom of tires and batteries, drivers now want freshly made sandwiches, snacks and convenience-store items. Some even avoid service stations altogether and instead buy their gas at grocery stores and shoppers' clubs.
 The change is understandable. Drivers like the convenience of buying gas and other necessities at the same time. Meanwhile, they get their tires and batteries at large retailers like Sears and Wal-Mart that offer more selection and lower prices. Car repairs and servicing are increasingly being left to specialized mechanics or high-volume chains like Jiffy Lube and Midas.
 That's a boon for consumers, but a hardship for franchisees with traditional service stations. Many of them don't have the expertise or capital to change their businesses into shiny convenience marts with deli counters and in-store bakeries. 
 Instead of evolving with the market and offering consumers what they want, some of the franchisees are trying to reverse the change. Their trade group has pursued the monopoly zone legislation with Ahab-like determination. In 2002, the association got a similar bill through the Legislature, only to have Governor Pataki veto it. Two years later, the association hopes for better results. 
 New York drivers should be concerned. Academic research indicates that anti-competition laws like the New York bill not only diminish consumers' convenience, but also raise gasoline prices. The reason is simple. With franchisees, the refiner's price includes a markup above the cost. The franchisee places another markup on top of that to make a profit. But when a refiner directly owns a station, there is only one markup above the wholesale cost to the consumers. It's not hard to see why franchisees fear this cost competition from the refiners and are using legislation to protect themselves. 
 Other states have adopted restrictions on how oil companies market their gasoline. In 2000, a Federal Trade Commission economist, Michael Vita, writing in The Journal of Regulatory Economics, found that similar laws increase gas prices by more than two and a half cents per gallon. That number seems small, but it adds up to about $100 million in corporate welfare to the franchisees in those states. 
 Most drivers know the best way to get lower prices and better service at their local gas station is to have a competitor open down the road. New York lawmakers should be siding with consumers and allowing refiners to provide that competition, instead of protecting gas station owners who are unwilling or unable to give consumers what they want. The market has changed, and New York should not force consumers to accept a business model that time and the market have passed by. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRANCHISEES (91%); GAS STATIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FRANCHISING (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CONVENIENCE STORES (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (88%); VETO (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); OIL & LUBE SHOPS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); BRAND EQUITY (72%); BRANDING (72%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); RETAILERS (70%); RETAIL BAKERIES (69%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (66%) Garages and Service Stations; Franchises; Law and Legislation; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: Bart J Wilson; Thomas Firey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



78 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Full Serve, No Choice

BYLINE: By BART J. WILSON and THOMAS FIREY. 
Bart J. Wilson is an associate professor of economics at the Interdisciplinary Center for Economic Science at George Mason University. Thomas Firey is managing editor of Regulation magazine, published by the Cato Institute.

 BODY:
Sometime in the coming weeks, New York lawmakers will quietly send to Gov. George Pataki a business welfare bill that passed both houses of the Legislature earlier this year after having languished in Albany for more than two decades. If the governor signs the bill into law, it will bring a long-awaited victory to a small group of politically well-connected businessmen and give New York drivers even more reason to complain the next time they fuel up their cars.
 The legislation, sponsored by Assemblyman Peter Abbate, a Brooklyn Democrat, and Senator Kenneth LaValle, a Republican who represents Long Island's East End, would protect gas station franchise owners from competition by prohibiting oil companies from opening their own gas stations within one to two miles of their franchisees. For instance, even if there is plenty of customer demand for a new Shell station with a full-service convenience mart, the bill would prohibit the refiner from building one if a franchised Shell station was nearby. The law would in effect award the franchise owners monopoly zones for their brand of gas, which is a valuable asset given drivers' historically strong brand loyalty. That freedom from competition means more profits for the franchisee and higher prices and inferior service for customers. 
 Why would New York hand out such anti-consumer business welfare? Because the franchisees make up a powerful lobby and the last two decades have not been kind to the traditional gas stations they tend to operate. What consumers want from gas stations has changed, and that has transformed the industry. Instead of service bays and a stockroom of tires and batteries, drivers now want freshly made sandwiches, snacks and convenience-store items. Some even avoid service stations altogether and instead buy their gas at grocery stores and shoppers' clubs.
 The change is understandable. Drivers like buying gas and necessities at the same time. They get their tires and batteries at retailers like Sears and Wal-Mart that offer selection and lower prices. Car repairs and servicing are increasingly left to specialized mechanics or chains like Jiffy Lube and Midas.
 That's a boon for consumers, but a hardship for franchisees with traditional service stations. Many of them don't have the expertise or capital to change their businesses into shiny convenience marts with deli counters and in-store bakeries. 
 Instead of evolving with the market and offering consumers what they want, some of the franchisees are trying to reverse the change. Their trade group has pursued the monopoly zone legislation with Ahab-like determination. In 2002, the association got a similar bill through the Legislature, only to have Governor Pataki veto it. Two years later, the association hopes for better results. 
 New York drivers should be concerned. Research indicates that anti-competition laws like the New York bill diminish consumers' convenience and raise gasoline prices. The reason is simple. With franchisees, the refiner's price includes a markup above the cost. The franchisee places another markup on top of that to make a profit. But when a refiner owns a station, there is only one markup above wholesale. It's easy to see why franchisees are using legislation to protect themselves. 
 Other states have adopted restrictions on how oil companies market their gasoline. In 2000, a Federal Trade Commission economist, Michael Vita, writing in The Journal of Regulatory Economics, found that similar laws increase gas prices by more than two and a half cents per gallon. That number seems small, but it adds up to about $100 million in corporate welfare to the franchisees in those states. 
 Most drivers know the best way to get lower prices and better service at the gas station is to have a competitor open down the road. New York lawmakers should be siding with consumers and allowing refiners to provide that competition, instead of protecting gas station owners who are unwilling or unable to give consumers what they want. The market has changed, and New York should not force consumers to accept a business model that time and the market have passed by.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRANCHISEES (91%); GAS STATIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FRANCHISING (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CONVENIENCE STORES (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (88%); VETO (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); OIL & LUBE SHOPS (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); BRAND EQUITY (72%); BRANDING (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); RETAILERS (70%); RETAIL BAKERIES (69%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (66%); GASOLINE MARKETS (60%) Garages and Service Stations; Law and Legislation; Law and Legislation; Franchises

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: Bart J Wilson; Thomas Firey; Peter (Assemblyman) Abbate; Kenneth (Sen) Lavalle

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Long Island (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



79 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1956 words

HEADLINE: City Folks in Amish Country

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG. 
SHERYL GAY STOLBERG is a correspondent in the Washington bureau of The New York Times.

 BODY:
I AM a city kid; my husband spent childhood weekends on his grandparents' farm. To me, the stock market means Wall Street. To my husband, Scott, the stock market is where you buy a good cow. 
 We've got two young daughters, and we'd like them to know that milk doesn't come directly from cartons on the grocery store shelf. So when friends recommended a stay on a working dairy farm in a little village in Lancaster County, Pa., it seemed like a fine weekend getaway. 
 With its gentle rolling hills, one-room schoolhouses and covered bridges, Lancaster County looks like an ever-changing picture postcard of rural America. Five million tourists pass through each year; most know the region as Pennsylvania Dutch Country, home of the Amish, or Plain People, who shun electricity and clip-clop in horse-drawn buggies along the winding country roads. 
 The region is also rich in farms, primarily dairy farms, which provide a steady flow of milk to the Hershey chocolate factory nearby.
 But the family-run farms of rural Pennsylvania, like farms across America, are dwindling as developers gobble up the land for cookie-cutter housing. Lancaster County's farmers, though, have discovered a clever way to survive economically while preserving farm life: over the last several decades, a growing number have opened their homes to tourists, with little advertising other than word of mouth and, more recently, the Internet.
 There are nearly three dozen of these farm inns in Lancaster County, and they are relatively inexpensive, usually $95 to $115 a night per room, with private bath and an abundant home-cooked breakfast. Unlike traditional B&B's, romantic retreats that are often off-limits to children, most of the farm getaways not only welcome kids but also offer activities -- pony rides and hayrides, trampolines and bikes -- to keep children busy while their parents relax. 
 And take your jeans and galoshes; just about all encourage help with the chores.
 Eileen and Galen Benner helped pioneer this trend. The Benners -- she is 67, he is 70 -- opened Rocky Acre Farm 39 years ago. Their rambling farmhouse, extended several times, dates back to the American Revolution and is believed to have been a stop on the Underground Railroad. 
 It sits on a 130-acre spread in Mount Joy, not far from the Susquehanna River, that is also home to Yippee! Farms, a 550-cow dairy operation where you can watch the assembly-line milking operation or try your hand at extracting milk the old-fashioned way.
 We arrived at Rocky Acre after dark on a Friday, having spent the afternoon in nearby Hershey. There, we took the chocolate factory tour (of a simulated factory; the real one is closed to tourists) and checked out the theme park next door. 
 I'm not ordinarily a fan of theme parks, but the Hershey people have got it right: the park is clean and offers something for everyone, including 10 roller-coasters and two dozen rides for tots.
 By the time we got to the farm, we were worn out. The beds in our room, the Fireplace Room, were comfortable and the decor had a Victorian touch, with antique dressers and headboard. To our surprise, the bathroom, newly renovated, had a Jacuzzi.
 Our daughters, Olivia, 9, and Hannah, 5, were eager to begin their new careers as farmer's helpers. We set the alarm for 6:30 so they could be out the door at 7 to bottle-feed the newborn calves, which is not as simple as you might think.
 Scott found this a hilarious sight. I encouraged the children to be gentle and hold the bottle still, assuming the calves would latch on when they were ready. But the little creatures balked. 
 ''Just stick it in their mouths!'' Scott instructed.
 The feeding accomplished, we walked down the road toward the chicken house, stopping along the way at a little petting zoo to visit the Benners' miniature horse, Cookie, and some baby goats. 
 Inside, we watched the hens lay their eggs; the children gathered them, still warm, in baskets to deliver to Eileen, who commands her kitchen with the authority of a ship captain. (''Galen,'' I once overheard her order her husband, ''if you're going to be in my kitchen, take off that coat.'') 
 She promptly cracked the eggs into the skillet for breakfast, and then politely shooed us away.
 The breakfast bell rang promptly at 8:30, and the meal seemed to go on forever: eggs, turkey sausage, baked oatmeal (a Benner family recipe that includes raisins, nuts and chocolate chips sprinkled on top); French toast and fresh fruit, including Eileen's delicious canned apricot peaches.
 Some return visitors to Rocky Acre who had been there in late summer told me that Eileen's home-canning operation is a sight to behold. Every August, she brings in a truckload of apricot peaches -- enough to can 100 quarts, on which her family and guests feast throughout the year.
 The farm can handle as many as 40 visitors and it was full when we visited, as it is nearly every weekend from March through November. Eileen stood guard over the hungry breakfast brood -- all three dozen of us -- and gently reminded us to keep passing the food. 
 ''Some people are too bashful to ask for it, but if you pass it, they'll take it,'' she said. 
 The leftovers -- there are always leftovers -- go to the farmhands. 
 After breakfast came the entertainment, courtesy of Galen. After the kids took turns riding Cookie, he led them on a tour of the property in a little homemade wagon train, its cars rigged out of 50-gallon drums that were hitched to an all-terrain vehicle. 
 That was followed by a family hayride through the neighborhood, including a covered bridge and past a barn with a lovely scene painted on it, as well as some new housing developments that, sadly, made clear just how threatened Lancaster County's farms are. 
 ''I just hate to see a lot of this beautiful land going into development,'' said Dottie Hess, when I called her that weekend at her family's Country Gardens Farm Bed and Breakfast, also in Mount Joy. ''We love the land. We love the animals, the farm, growing things, and we wanted to share it.''
 The Benners, whose daughter Holly is an officer of a loose-knit association of Lancaster County farm bed-and-breakfast owners (you can find them on the Web at www.afarmstay.com) stumbled into the business at the urging of Eileen's brother and sister-in-law, Wayne and Yvonne Miller, who run Green Acres Farm Bed and Breakfast in Mount Joy.
 ''I had an antique shop,'' Yvonne Miller said, ''and it was so far out in the country that people said, 'Why don't you open up some rooms and let us stay?'''
 SOON, she was sending the Benners the overflow. They began with one bedroom and one bath; today, they have eight rooms, along with a two-bedroom apartment and a guesthouse.
 Eileen still cooks every morning; on Sunday, she takes a break and serves on paper plates so she and her husband can go to church. Many of their guests are repeat visitors; some came when they were children, and are now bringing children of their own.
 Like many of their fellow Lancaster County farmers, the Benners are Mennonites -- more liberal theological cousins to the Amish -- whose ancestors have farmed in this area for generations. With their deep roots in the community, they double as unofficial guides into the intriguing, private world of the Amish. 
 During our stay, we ate dinner with an Amish family, quietly arranged, neighbor-to-neighbor, by Eileen. This would not have been possible without her help. 
 A number of Amish families, overcoming their traditional reticence toward outsiders, are quietly offering home-cooked meals to visitors. But the service is strictly below the radar, because state officials have been complaining the Amish do not have restaurant permits. 
 For a suggested donation of $12.50, plus whatever we wanted to pay for the kids, our hosts offered a simple and tasty repast of roast chicken, buttered noodles, peas and a smattering of Amish delights, including chow-chow (a colorful mix of vegetables, chopped and pickled), peppers stuffed with cabbage, homemade ice cream and pie. 
 Even better than the food were the conversation, a tour of the barn, where the horses and buggies are kept, and a peek into the quilting room. 
 The chance to explore the world of the Old Order Amish was, for us, a major draw of the Lancaster County, but we found the main thoroughfares in the famed Pennsylvania Dutch towns of Intercourse and Bird-in-Hand disappointingly kitschy. Fortunately, Rocky Acre Farm provided a back-roads tour. 
 We began at the home of an Amish quiltmaker, Hannah Stoltzfus, who delighted our Hannah by giving her a tiny quilted key chain. ''We give one to every Hannah who comes into the shop,'' she explained. 
 Then we set out for Zook's Dry Goods Store, an Amish variety store in Intercourse that sells just about everything, from board games to quilting fabrics to the dark knit sweaters the Amish wear in winter. 
 I asked the young woman behind the counter if there were other establishments where the Amish can buy clothes. She looked at me as if I had just dropped in from Mars. 
 ''Buy our clothes?'' she said, obviously puzzled. ''But we make our clothes.''
 Oh. 
 We also visited the Intercourse Canning Company, known for its Pennsylvania Dutch delicacies, where you can observe Amish workers canning all kinds of vegetables, though only during the week. (We were there on a Saturday, when you can sample and buy the food.) 
 Across the street, Old Candle Barn has a candle factory in the basement; the dipping operation is open to tourists, also on weekdays.
 There were many more places on the Benners' list and ours: 
 The Bird-in-Hand Bake Shop, and its whoopie pies (devil's food with whipped frosting inside); the Sturgis Pretzel House in Lititz, which it says is the first commercial pretzel bakery in America (1850) and where visitors can twist their own pretzels; and Lapp Valley Farm, between Intercourse and New Holland, which the Benners say produces the best homemade ice cream in the region. 
 We didn't take a buggy ride, much to the girls' chagrin. But they were eager to get back to the farm, where we took to the porch swing while they played a pick-up game of Wiffle ball with the other kids. Already, they are asking to go back.

You'll know the eggs are fresh
 A more complete listing of Lancaster County's farm bed-and-breakfasts is available on the Internet at www.afarmstay.com. A full farm breakfast is included in all of the following establishments. Most proprietors of these inns do not accept credit cards.
 Rocky Acre Farm, 1020 Pinkerton Road, Mount Joy, Pa. 17552; (717) 653-4449, www.rockyacre.com, has eight rooms, sleeping up to four, for $95 a night; an efficiency sleeping five for $110; and a two-bedroom apartment that sleeps seven for $149. There's a two-night minimum on weekends and all of June, July and August. All rooms have air-conditioning and private baths. Pony rides, tractor rides, hayrides and a playhouse are available for children. 
 At Green Acres Farm Bed and Breakfast, 1382 Pinkerton Road, Mount Joy, (717) 653-4028, fax (717) 653-2840; www.thegreenacresfarm.com, double rooms are $95, plus $5 a child. Two-night minimum on weekends. The seven rooms all have air-conditioning and private bath. There are a playhouse, petting zoo and pony cart rides.
 Country Gardens Farm Bed and Breakfast, 506 Rock Point Road, Mount Joy; (717) 426-3316; www. thecountrygardensfarm.com, charges $95 to $135 a room for two, plus $10 for each child. The four rooms are air-conditioned and have private baths. There are also built-in playmates: Bertie Ziegler's sons, ages 7, 9 and 10, ''explain how to feed the sheep and goats,'' she says. ''Then they gather eggs from the chicken house and swing on a rope in the barn.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The homemade train at Rocky Acre Farm. A guest, Mark Bettner, 13, arrives for milking. Breakfast is plentiful, even for dozens. The main house dates to the American Revolution. (Photographs by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 A guest room at Rocky Acre Farm Bed and Breakfast. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. 18)Map of Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY FARMING (90%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (72%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (69%) Travel and Vacations; Agriculture; Bed-and-Breakfast Lodgings

ORGANIZATION: Rocky Acre Farm (Mount Joy, Pa); Green Acres Farm Bed and Breakfast (Mount Joy, Pa); Country Gardens Farm Bed and Breakfast (Mount Joy, Pa)

PERSON: Sheryl Gay Stolberg

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Pennsylvania; Mount Joy (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



80 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: Preservation of Harlem's Landmarks

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Chipping Away at Harlem,'' by Bill Perkins and Michael Henry Adams (Op-Ed, Sept. 26), missed an important point: the Landmarks Preservation Commission has designated more than 500 buildings north of 110th Street since 1999. Today, Harlem contains a wealth of landmarks -- 700, in fact, far more than most city neighborhoods. 
 The commission is sympathetic to those who wish to landmark St. Thomas the Apostle, a Catholic church on 118th Street. Although the church already has permits to alter the facade, we are fully committed to working with the archdiocese and the community to preserve the building.
 No Catholic church has been designated a landmark in more than 25 years, but the commission is now considering landmark status for two, All Saints and St. Aloysius, both in Harlem.
 The commission has also supported landmark status for the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, on 112th Street.
 As Harlem's economic resurgence creates new development pressures, the commission will remain vigilant in its efforts to protect the community's architectural heritage. 

Robert B. Tierney
Chairman, Landmarks
Preservation Commission
Lower Manhattan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); HISTORIC SITES (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Religion and Churches; Historic Buildings and Sites

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: Robert B Tierney; Bill (Councilman) Perkins; Michael Henry Adams

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; Harlem (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



81 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: The State of Taxes, After the Election

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Yes, it seems clear that taxes will need to be raised, barring an economic miracle of the sort not previously seen (''Whoever Wins, More Taxes May Be the Only Way Out,'' Economic View, Sept. 26). 
 It is not completely clear what a Kerry administration would do, although my suspicion is that a necessary tax increase would be considered. 
 It is clearer to me, however, what a second Bush administration would not do. The administration has already amply demonstrated its unwillingness to face reality in economic matters -- by creating enormous deficits, for example -- so it is inconceivable to me that it would consider raising taxes. Letting the problems fester for four more years seems far more likely. 
 Tackling difficult and unpleasant economic problems is something that our political system seems to find increasingly difficult.

Michael G. Parker
New York, Sept. 26

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); BUDGETS (88%); ELECTIONS (84%); TAX LAW (73%); POLITICS (65%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: Michael G Parker; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



82 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 6; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Wesleyan Is Sensitive To the Cost of Education

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 I am very concerned that comments attributed to me in Harlan Levy's article, ''The Price of Admission Is on the Rise'' (Sept. 26) suggested an arrogant disregard to the cost of tuition by me and by Wesleyan University.
 Over several phone conversations I stressed to the reporter that the key factor driving private university tuition increases is reduced endowments following the recent bear market. As I explained, the decrease in this important revenue source has forced private colleges and universities to rely more heavily on tuition in order to maintain critical programs. I used the prior year tuition increases at Wesleyan to demonstrate that steeper tuition increases are a recent phenomenon resulting from this particular problem. I also noted that it is always the university administration's desire to keep tuition and fee increases to the lowest level possible and at the same time maintain the quality parents and students expect.
 Wesleyan is sensitive to the cost of education, especially with respect to students with need. We admit students without regard to their ability to pay and offer financial aid packages to meet full financial need of all admitted students. This commitment to an affordable education is demonstrated in many years of financial aid increases far surpassing tuition increases.
 Deciding to increase tuition beyond inflationary costs, which for higher education run higher than the Consumer Price Index, is a difficult and painful exercise. Although I have only been at Wesleyan University for three years (I am not Wesleyan's ''longtime finance officer'') I have been in higher education administration for over 25 years and, as Mr. Levy notes, have often been part of conversations addressing concerns about the limits of parents' willingness to pay the increasing cost of private higher education. Despite these concerns, the public appears to be willing to accept these higher costs, which was the point of my comments.
 I regret that my comments have been represented in a manner that does a disservice to parents, to Wesleyan University and to me.

Marcia Bromberg
Middletown

The writer is vice president for finance and administration at Wesleyan University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (94%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); WRITERS (73%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (72%) Colleges and Universities; Tuition

ORGANIZATION: Wesleyan University

PERSON: Marcia Bromberg

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



83 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; WORTH NOTING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: The Ups and Downs Of Life in New Jersey

BYLINE: By Robert Strauss

 BODY:
Despite political morass and a murky economy, New Jersey is flying high in at least one area: roller coasters.
 Last week, Six Flags Great Adventure announced that it was building the world's tallest and fastest roller coaster to be ready for the 2005 season. 
In the meantime, down in South Jersey, Clementon Amusement Park earlier this month opened the Tsunami, at 105 feet, the nation's tallest wooden roller coaster.
 The Tsunami, though, pales in comparison with the soon-to-be-built Kingda Ka, which will soar 456 feet, or about 45 stories, in the air. Rick McCurley, vice president and general manager at Six Flags, said it would be Great Adventure's 14 coaster, and also its most spectacular. 
 Kingda Ka will get its riders from zero to 128 miles an hour horizontally in 3.5 seconds then shoot them up to the top of the coaster at a 90-degree angle at 128 m.p.h. Then the coaster will go back down 418 feet at a 270-degree spiral before going back up another 129 feet and then descending to the starting point. 
 The Tsunami is considerably tamer, but only by comparison. It rises 105 feet almost vertically before plunging toward, but not into, the lake at Clementon at a 62-degree angle at 56 m.p.h. Robert Strauss


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%) Amusement and Theme Parks; Roller Coasters

COMPANY: SIX FLAGS GREAT ADVENTURE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Six Flags Great Adventure

PERSON: Robert Strauss

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



84 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; BRIEFINGS: ECONOMY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: TRENTON: NUMBER OF POOR CHILDREN RISES

BYLINE: By Jessica Bruder

 BODY:
The number of poor children living in New Jersey's cities is rising, while state efforts to support them are falling, according to a report released by the Association for Children of New Jersey, a child advocacy organization. The report found that the 535,000 children living in the state's 25 largest cities fell well below statewide averages in 20 of 26 indicators. Children in urban areas, who made up 26 percent of the state's total child population in the 2000 census, were more likely to suffer from health problems, abuse and neglect. Jessica Bruder


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION SIZE (88%); CHILD WELFARE (86%); CENSUS (85%) Children and Youth 

ORGANIZATION: Association For Children of New Jersey

PERSON: Jessica Bruder

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



85 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; BRIEFINGS: ECONOMY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 79 words

HEADLINE: NEW BONDS RECEIVE LOW RATINGS

BYLINE: By Jessica Bruder

 BODY:
Three independent credit rating agencies -- Moody's, Fitch Rating Service and Standard & Poor's -- have given a very low rating to the $1.4 billion in bonds scheduled for issue this week by the State of New Jersey. The bonds, which were rated two grades above junk bond status, are expected to generate $1.2 billion of the nearly $2 billion that the state plans to borrow to offset this year's $28 billion budget, and will be repaid with cigarette tax revenues. Jessica Bruder

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT BUREAUS (93%); BONDS (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); BOND ISSUES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (87%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (87%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Government Bonds; Ratings and Rating Systems

ORGANIZATION: Moody's Investors Service Inc; Fitch Ratings; Standard & Poor's Corp

PERSON: Jessica Bruder

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



86 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2005 Dodge Magnum; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: For Hauling Bodies, Warm or Otherwise

BYLINE: By MICHELLE KREBS

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
''IS that a hearse in your driveway?'' my neighbor asked in the matter-of-fact tone of someone who has seen almost every imaginable motor vehicle pull up next door, including the Oscar Mayer Wienermobile.
 The dark gray car in question was not, in fact, a conveyance for the dearly departed. Nor was it a sign that my household had gone Goth. Rather, it was a 2005 Magnum, the station wagon that is breathing life into Dodge and, along with its Chrysler 300 sibling, is resuscitating the Chrysler Group's car business. 
 The Magnum shares its rear-wheel-drive architecture, derived from the much more expensive Mercedes-Benz E-Class, with the 300 sedan. As of this month, both the 300 and Magnum are available with all-wheel drive as well. Both come with a choice of two V-6 engines or a muscular Hemi V-8.
 There was considerable skepticism in Detroit over the Magnum's introduction as a station wagon only (or ''sport tourer,'' in Dodgespeak), given that the body style has not been popular with Americans in recent years. But booming sales have proved the skeptics wrong; about 23,000 have been sold since the Magnum went on sale last spring.
 A sedan counterpart, the Dodge Charger, will arrive next year.
 My neighbor was not seeing things, for the Magnum does look as if it could be a hearse -- or a getaway vehicle for gangsters, or a latter-day 50's-style hot rod. The car has a low-rider silhouette, imposing grille and shallow side windows that taper down toward the rear.
 I've heard many women, my neighbor included, say they are not fond of the macho, menacing look, and early sales indicate that the Magnum has more guy appeal. Nearly three-fourths of early buyers have been men, according to the Power Information Network, an affiliate of J.D. Power & Associates, the big market research firm. 
 While the Magnum's appearance didn't appeal to me at first, either, it has grown on me as I've seen more of the wagons on Michigan roads. By comparison, it took me far longer to warm up to the equally masculine, hard-edge look of recent Cadillacs.
 And while I bonded immediately to the elegant Chrysler 300, I had to spend some time at the wheel before I felt the same way about the Magnum. On my first test drive, backing the wagon out of a narrow parking spot with little room to maneuver, the car suddenly felt enormous.
 Over time, I grew accustomed to the size. I certainly had no complaints about the powertrain, since I am a big fan of the gutsy 5.7-liter Hemi. This old-school pushrod V-8 pumps out 340 horsepower and peak torque of 390 pounds-feet. It is coupled with a smooth five-speed AutoStick that can be shifted manually. 
 The Hemi is thirsty, with a rating of 17 m.p.g. in town and 25 on the highway, with rear-wheel drive. But Dodge improves the engine's efficiency by shutting off four of the eight cylinders when they are not needed. The transition is so seamless that the driver never notices, try as she might.
 The Magnum is also offered as the base SE with a 2.7-liter V-6 that makes 190 horsepower; this engine comes with a four-speed automatic. In the midlevel SXT, a 3.5-liter V-6 pumps out 250 horsepower. The SXT has a four-speed automatic with rear drive or the five-speed AutoStick with all-wheel drive. (RT's and SXT's offer the all-wheel-drive option, while the SE is rear-drive only.)
 To ensure that the RT stops as quickly as it accelerates, it has large four-wheel disc brakes that include an antilock feature and a brake-assist function that provides extra braking in panic stops. Traction assist, stability control and side-curtain air bags are available.
 The car's steering is sport-sedan precise, and the Mercedes-derived suspension delivers a balanced combination of sporty handling and a quiet, comfortable ride.
 Critics have questioned the Magnum's hauling credentials, given the slanted roof over the cargo area. Granted, you won't use the car to transport a grandfather clock, but how often do you that?
 For my suburban single-parent lifestyle, the Magnum proved quite practical. It hauled my car pool of varsity swimmers, who marveled at the attractive interior and abundant legroom. ''It's like riding in a limousine,'' one remarked.
 My RT had a gray and cream interior. The circular black-on-white gauges, with brushed-metal rims, were simple, clear and sporty.
 The second-row seat -- there is no third row, limiting capacity to five people -- folds and is split 60-40 so part of it can provide seating while the other section adds to the cargo area. Cargo capacity is 71.6 cubic feet with the back seat folded and 27.2 cubic feet with it upright. 
 With the seat down, I could easily fit my bike in the rear. Loading was easy, thanks to the low sill and upward-opening tailgate. The Magnum handily accommodated cases of juice and sports drinks from my back-to-school trip to Costco.
 Beneath the cargo floor, a waterproof plastic compartment holds small items; you can order nets to divide the space.
 While not cheap, the Magnum will fit into many families' budgets. Rear-drive models range from about $22,500 for an SE to $26,000 for an SXT to $30,000 for an RT. My well-equipped RT test car was just under $36,000. All-wheel drive adds roughly $2,000.
 You can expect to see more Magnums in your mirror, including some that may not be welcome sights. Dodge will soon offer SXT's with a ''special services'' package for law enforcement. In about a year, a full-bore police pursuit car, with the Hemi, will be on the streets.
 For us civilians, the Magnum does pretty much everything a wagon -- or a sport utility -- should do, but it is fun to drive and looks distinctive. As a longtime fan of station wagons, I hope this Dodge continues to change Americans' perceptions. 

INSIDE TRACK: Not your mother's Vista Cruiser.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Goth or gangsta? The Dodge Magnum has a don't-mess-with-me look. (pg. 1)
 A Magnum police cruiser may be coming to a precinct near you. (pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SEDANS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (67%); MARKET RESEARCH (61%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (61%) Automobiles; Reviews

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Dodge Division of Daimlerchrysler Corp; Daimlerchrysler Ag

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

PERSON: Michelle Krebs

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (91%) MICHIGAN, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



87 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3024 words

HEADLINE: A Seismic Shift Under the House Of Fannie Mae

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN and JENNIFER 8. LEE; Eric Dash contributed reporting to this story.

 BODY:
FROM a compulsively neat desk inside a company that routinely jousts with powerful critics from the White House, Congress, the Federal Reserve and Wall Street, J. Timothy Howard has been the financial architect of one of the world's most formidable and most elegantly designed corporate money machines. He also holds a corporate title that in recent years has emerged as one of the most treacherous in American business: chief financial officer.
 The winds of scandal that uprooted Enron, WorldCom, Tyco and other companies often blew hardest through C.F.O. suites. Now, with controversy engulfing his employer -- the mortgage giant Fannie Mae -- Mr. Howard finds himself in legal and regulatory cross hairs that threaten to upend his career, throw the company's operations into turmoil and escalate a long-running battle between Fannie Mae and its enemies.
 Eleven days ago, a federal regulator issued a scathing report that accused the company, and Mr. Howard in particular, of accounting and managerial lapses that presented a false public portrait of its financial well-being and enriched its executives. Then, late last week, amid a mounting tempest of Congressional criticism, Fannie Mae became the subject of a criminal investigation by the Justice Department; that investigation is likely to take precedence over a continuing Securities and Exchange Commission inquiry. 
 The stakes in all of this are large. Fannie Mae provides much of the glue that helps hold the American mortgage market together, and if the company encounters serious setbacks, the impact on homeowners and the world's financial markets could be unpleasant. Nor are the accusations of improprieties necessarily unique to Fannie Mae. Wall Street analysts say that if the same regulatory magnifying glass were used to examine the operations of most other sizable mortgage concerns in America, a case for dubious accounting could probably be made for many of them.
 Unlike the problems in recent financial scandals, issues raised by Fannie Mae's regulators appear largely to pertain to unwieldy accounting rules that are open to widely divergent interpretations -- not to sham transactions designed to cloak corporate malfeasance. More serious accounting problems may yet emerge, and the company has already been forced to consider outsized financial restatements as a result of the regulatory inquiry. And as the Justice Department investigation of Fannie Mae continues, other problems may surface.
 Few longtime observers of Fannie Mae and of Mr. Howard expect that crimes will be found. ''The guy is as honest as the day is long and the targeting of Tim Howard is an unfortunate byproduct of larger events,'' said Martin D. Eakes, chief executive of the Self-Help Credit Union, a lender to low-income borrowers based in Durham, N.C., who has alternately worked closely with and battled Fannie Mae on various mortgage issues. ''This will never, ever be like Enron. Mark my words.''
 Maybe so. But the confrontation between Fannie Mae and its critics already amounts to a clash of titans, both in Washington and New York, where Fannie Mae's lobbyists and its executives are accustomed to striding unencumbered through the halls of Congress, the financial byways of Wall Street and the finest dining rooms and clubs. 
 For at least the last decade, the company has been criticized in Congress and by Washington research groups. Detractors accuse it of benefiting unfairly from its status as a quasi-public enterprise, of not truly meeting its mission of providing affordable housing, and of being too loosely regulated. More recently, Fannie Mae's explosive growth has drawn the attention of Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, who raised concerns earlier this year that a collapse or trouble for the company posed threats to the economy. Mr. Greenspan advocated the complete privatization of the company, a view that has been pressed elsewhere in Washington as well.
 ''It's a resistance to Fannie in Washington that is one part mortgage industry civil war, one part conservative ideological crusade to try to rein them in or force them to privatize,'' said Charles A. Gabriel Jr., senior Washington analyst at Prudential Securities. ''Having faced down the mortgage industry civil war and the ideologues, what finally tripped them up is they ran afoul of the shifting zeitgeist on accounting.''
 Amid all of this, Mr. Howard and Fannie Mae's chief executive, Franklin D. Raines, have left a long trail of embittered opponents who have complained about high-handedness. ''They are a study of power in Washington,'' said Andrew M. Cuomo, who sparred with Fannie Mae on housing issues as a former secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. ''Once the myth of invincibility is gone, the act crumbles.''
 Although Fannie Mae and its executives have not been shy in the past about taking on their critics, neither Mr. Howard nor Mr. Raines has been available for interviews about the regulatory review and investigations of the company. Both men are scheduled to testify on Wednesday before the House Financial Services Committee, and they will be thrust into the uncomfortable and unusual position of having to defend themselves and their actions.
 ''This has become a big-time game,'' said Bert Ely, a banking analyst in Alexandria, Va., and a longtime Fannie Mae critic. ''It is one of the big power struggles under way right now. One of things that makes it that way is all the tumult and disturbing news, and issues that will not be resolved for months.''
 FANNIE MAE is a behemoth in the mortgage business. It can borrow money more cheaply than its competitors in the mortgage business because investors, and lenders believe that there is an implicit guarantee that the government will offer financial support to Fannie Mae if the company ever swooned. 
 And the company's vast operations have helped keep mortgage rates low. Rather than lending money to prospective homeowners, Fannie Mae buys mortgages from banks that issue them, allowing lenders to make further mortgages. Fannie Mae's size, and its government backing, also allow home buyers in the United States to have mortgages with rates that are guaranteed for as long as 30 years, a financial benefit that is unavailable in most other countries, where banks typically recalculate mortgage rates monthly. 
 Mr. Raines has been Fannie Mae's chief executive and corporate ambassador since 1999. But Mr. Howard has a far longer tenure at the company and has overseen much of the machinery that has caused Fannie Mae's coffers to swell.
 As chief financial officer since 1990, Mr. Howard has worked alongside three chief executives and three chief operating officers. During that time, Fannie Mae rebounded from a spate of financial turmoil to post earnings of $7.9 billion last year -- a 71 percent leap from $4.6 billion in 2002. Its loan losses have plunged over the last decade, and its mortgage portfolio has expanded to about $900 billion last year from about $200 billion in 1993.
 The financial fortress that Fannie Mae has become is largely the handiwork of Mr. Howard and a highly skilled team of deputies who surround him. As C.F.O., Mr. Howard introduced new methods of managing the company's debt and overseeing its funds, including deploying high-octane financial tools known as derivatives that companies of every stripe use to insulate their operations from risks and unforeseen economic shocks. Mr. Howard's financial wizardry has won many admirers on Wall Street.
 ''In my experience, I would put him in the higher ranks of C.F.O.'s at financial companies,'' said Frederick N. Khedouri, a senior managing director at Bear Stearns, an investment bank that has extensive dealings with Fannie Mae. ''Senior executives who know what the risks are and how to manage the risks are extraordinarily valuable and rare. Someone should think long and hard about who you would get who would be better at this than Tim.''
 For all of Mr. Howard's intellectual abilities, his diplomatic skills are described as lacking by current and former colleagues, financial analysts, Congressional aides and members of federal agencies that have worked with Fannie Mae. In that regard, he may be a mirror of Fannie Mae itself -- a well-oiled, highly calibrated machine that has also attracted an unusual amount of enmity for being high-handed in its dealings with outsiders. 
 When he joined Fannie Mae as chief economist in 1982, Mr. Howard was among a cadre of new hires brought in by David O. Maxwell, then the chief executive. High, volatile interest rates had brutalized the company and brought it to its knees. The national housing market was in a crisis, and there was a sense of public mission among the new hires -- that through the shrewd use of sophisticated financial tools and strategic thinking they would be able to resurrect the housing finance market.
 THAT missionary zeal still pervades Fannie Mae. Financial analysts say the company's executives regard themselves as stewards of the housing market who have to fend off critics who might otherwise disrupt its sensitive operations.
 In 1987, Mr. Howard was promoted from chief economist to head of asset management, a position that allowed him to oversee the most profitable and complex area of Fannie Mae's business, its enormous mortgage portfolio. That job, said a former Fannie Mae employee, gave him ''the keys to the kingdom.'' 
 Despite his monklike work habits, Mr. Howard is described by acquaintances as a family man, s a devoted father heavily involved in his children's activities. He owns an expensive home in the affluent Washington suburb of McLean, Va., where he hones his tennis game on his private court. He is also a patron of the arts and has been an active supporter of the Washington National Opera, where he serves as vice president and treasurer.
 Within Fannie Mae, however, Mr. Howard has drawn a number of detractors. He is regarded as aloof, according to several people who have interacted with him at the company. They describe him as a sometimes unrelenting perfectionist, and someone who is unremitting in his oversight of his employees and their work -- occasionally, in his early years as C.F.O., dressing down employees in front of their peers.
 But others at the company say that he has grown into his job and that his management style softened, especially after he became vice chairman of Fannie Mae's board last year. ''I worked with Tim for a number of years and know him to be a person of extraordinarily high integrity,'' said John Buckley, a former senior vice president at Fannie Mae. 
 Mr. Howard's assumption of his vice chairman's title last year brought him to the peak of his powers inside Fannie Mae. He became a member of a four-member office of the chairman, a role that gives him a voice in corporate strategy -- including the setting of Fannie Mae's earning goals. He has also grown close to Mr. Raines, and their second-floor offices are connected by a small conference room.
 By late last year, Mr. Howard had assembled an impressive portfolio of duties at Fannie Mae, essentially having responsibility for overseeing how the company makes its money, how it counts its money and how it audits that count. When a little-known and underfinanced regulatory agency assigned to monitor Fannie Mae's operations came calling earlier this year with pointed questions about how things were being run, Mr. Howard was asked to describe his wide-ranging duties.
 ''Boy, how much time do we have?'' Mr. Howard answered with a laugh, according to a recent report prepared by the regulatory agency, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, known as Ofheo.
 In Washington's pecking order, Ofheo is low on the list, with a small staff and few resources. To critics, the fact that Fannie Mae is not overseen by a larger, more lushly funded regulator is a dangerous problem. 
 ''We've always maintained from the very beginning that there are important regulatory and safety and soundness issues there,'' said Beneva Schulte, a spokeswoman at FM Policy Focus, a Washington group that is funded by financial services companies and other groups and tracks Fannie Mae's operations. ''There's no way they could keep meeting their earnings targets without going outside their charter into new lines of business or by being undercapitalized.''
 Ofheo's director, Armando Falcon Jr., began asking serious questions about Fannie Mae's accounting practices after critics said his agency failed to uncover accounting problems at Fannie Mae's sister agency, Freddie Mac. According to members of federal agencies and others who have interacted with Fannie Mae and Ofheo, Mr. Falcon bridled at Mr. Howard's and Mr. Raines's reluctance to provide his agency with timely, detailed and respectful replies to queries since he became Ofheo's director in 1999.
 According to former Fannie Mae employees, Mr. Howard consolidated his power by guarding information and by rarely delegating authority. He adopted the same posture toward Ofheo, according to an individual close to Mr. Falcon. 
 The friction among Mr. Howard, Mr. Raines and Mr. Falcon became personal, said some who have witnessed their interactions. It was as if ''Frank and Tim had questioned Armando's manhood,'' said a financier who knows all three men. An Ofheo spokeswoman acknowledged that there were problems between Fannie Mae and Ofheo but said her agency had maintained ''an appropriate arm's-length relationship'' with Fannie Mae. 
 Whatever the backdrop, the report on Fannie Mae released by Mr. Falcon's agency on Sept. 22 was caustic. In strong language unusual in a regulatory report, it cited numerous examples of accounting irregularities and managerial conflicts that Ofheo examiners contended were used to doctor Fannie's earnings and inflate executive compensation. 
 ''If other companies used Fannie Mae's logic in applying accounting principles, they could dictate the financial results they desired, and there would be no comparability of financial results between reporting entities even within the same industry,'' the report said in one passage.
 The brunt of the report's accusations are directed at Mr. Howard, who Ofheo examiners described as the engineer of suspect accounting machinations. The report accuses Mr. Howard of wearing so many different corporate hats that financial controls and auditing practices were potentially neutered at Fannie Mae. It also says Fannie Mae improperly disregarded accounting standards relating to loan originations and purchases as well as those related to derivatives used to hedge risk in its vast mortgage portfolio. 
 The report accuses Fannie Mae of creating a ''cookie jar'' reserve that Mr. Howard could dip into at his discretion to determine the amount of income or expenses the company chose to recognize in any given period. And the report cites other apparent machinations beginning in 1998 that helped bolster executive compensation at Fannie Mae.
 Analysts and financiers say a few of the accusations merit closer scrutiny while most others do not rise to the level of being improprieties -- much less crimes.
 Jonathan E. Gray, a financial analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said that while regulators might well have found important technical infractions of accounting rules, Mr. Falcon's motivations had to be considered. ''You have a gentlemen that was told he is not strong enough who now is both the prosecutor and judge,'' he said. ''The way to keep his job and keep his agency from being phased out was to be tough.'' 
 Nonetheless, Mr. Gray said that there could be a significant problem if Fannie Mae had a ''cookie jar'' reserve. But he dismissed most of the other criticisms in the report as immaterial. He said the accusation of problems with Fannie Mae's derivatives accounting might require more attention, but he and many others in the financial services industry said that the complex rules governing mortgage derivatives created enormous compliance and financial management headaches with which all C.F.O.'s were struggling.
 The accounting maneuvers that the report says were used to fatten management's wallets do focus an uncomfortable spotlight on Fannie Mae's lush compensation practices. It also highlights the baronial ways of an organization funded in part by taxpayers and with a charter to help make housing available to low- and moderate-income Americans.
 Mr. Raines earned about $20 million in total compensation last year, while Mr. Howard pulled in about $7.7 million. Since January, Mr. Howard has also sold Fannie Mae stock worth about $6.95 million. A Fannie Mae spokesman said that Mr. Howard's stock sales were all scheduled in accordance with a routine sales plan adopted and filed with the S.E.C. in February.
 With Congressional scrutiny mounting, and the Justice Department investigation now at hand, both Mr. Raines and Mr. Howard have something at stake that is perhaps more precious to them than money: their reputations.
 IN an unusual agreement with Ofheo reached last Friday, Fannie Mae said it would institute major changes in its accounting and management practices, including separating Mr. Howard's duties and instituting new auditing procedures. The company also agreed to add $5 billion in fresh funds to its capital reserve within the next nine months, a move apparently intended to shore up its finances in advance of any financial restatements.
 That move, however, has not kept investigations from continuing. On Wednesday, Mr. Raines and Mr. Howard will have a chance to air their views before members of Congress. While the complicated nature of the allegations have circumscribed the executives' abilities to speak publicly about recent events, some analysts wonder why one of the most muscular players in Washington has largely fallen silent. 
 ''People are shaking their heads, old-timers like me are shaking their heads, and saying, 'What kind of game is Fannie playing here?''' Mr. Ely said. ''They have this circling-the-wagons mentality and are not giving anybody, including their investors, a sense of where this is going.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: J. Timothy Howard, chief financial officer, is considered the architect of Fannie Mae's recent success. (pg. 1)
 Fannie Mae headquarters in Washington. The company faces a Justice Department investigation. (Photo by Jason M. Carrier/Bloomberg News)(pg. 9)Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (77%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); MISCONDUCT (76%); ETHICS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); SCANDALS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%) Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Mortgages

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); SELF-HELP CREDIT UNION (60%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (73%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%) Fannie Mae; Fannie Mae

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (60%); SIC6062 CREDIT UNIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (60%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

PERSON: FRANK RAINES (58%) Timothy L O'Brien; Jennifer 8 Lee; J Timothy Howard; Franklin D Raines

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (50%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



88 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Thou Shalt Not Increase G.D.P.

BYLINE: By Daniel Gross. 
Daniel Gross writes the ''Moneybox'' column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
CAN belief in heaven or hell be a competitive advantage for nations? 
 It's not the sort of question that many economists ask. After all, with exceptions like Adam Smith, the giants of economic theory have had little to say on matters of faith. And economists have tended to accept the secularization thesis advanced by Max Weber in ''The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism,'' the Western Civ staple: as economies become more advanced and as technology progresses, religion will decline as a force. 
 What's more, many economists -- with their penchant for data and bedrock faith in the rationality of humans -- may be temperamentally unsuited to take religion seriously. Some people, though, have tried to study both economics and religion. 
 ''Religious activity is very hard to quantify,'' said Eli Berman, an economist at the University of California at San Diego who has used economic principles to study radical religious militias. ''And religious groups tend to do a whole bunch of things that look pretty darn irrational, at least at first glance.'' 
 But the wall separating church and economics is being breached. ''In the past 5 to 20 years, more and more scholars have been using conventional economic methods to understand the way in which religion relates to the rest of society, and to the economy in particular,'' said Laurence R. Iannaccone, the Koch professor of economics at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va.
 The scholars now include Robert J. Barro and Rachel M. McCleary, a husband-and-wife team based at Harvard. Professor Barro is a prolific economist who has long been interested in studying how and why economic growth rates differ among countries. Professor McCleary, who directs the Project on Religion, Political Economy, and Society at Harvard's Weatherhead Center for International Affairs, gained an appreciation of the importance of religion in economic life while studying in Guatemala.
 In a paper published last year in the American Sociological Review, the couple set out to investigate the correlation between variables like church attendance and belief in heaven and hell and comparative economic growth rates from 1965 to 1995. ''We thought there might be a positive relationship between certain religious beliefs and economic performance,'' Professor Barro said.
 Investigating such a hypothesis can be difficult, in part because different religious systems have starkly different practices when it comes to their mode of participation and belief in the afterlife.
 But over all, the study confirmed the assumption that greater economic development is associated with less religiosity. In their results, which Dr. McCleary notes are preliminary and need further investigation, the two also reached some counterintuitive conclusions. First, in two countries where religious service attendance is essentially the same, the one whose people have a greater belief in heaven and hell would experience faster economic growth. Second, in two countries where the populations have similar rates of belief in heaven and hell, the one in which church attendance is greater would have slower growth.
 Why? This ''quantitative approach to the study of religion,'' as Professor McCleary calls it, rests on the assumption that religion can affect economics by fostering beliefs that influence productivity-enhancing traits like thrift, hard work and honesty. A widespread feeling that such behavior may ultimately be rewarded (a belief in heaven), or that a lack of such behavior may be punished (a belief in hell) may therefore spur economic growth. And if more people and resources are devoted to holding religious services without producing the desired output (a higher level of belief), that would tend to lessen productivity in an economy. 
 In other words, countries' economies may perform best when people have relatively higher levels of religious belief than religious participation. Among the nations falling into this category are Japan, South Korea, Singapore and some Scandinavian countries -- all of which performed well economically in the period studied. Countries in which belief was low compared with religious participation included India and many in Latin America.
 Another finding was that belief in hell proved to be a more significant economic factor than belief in heaven. ''The stick of punishment may be more powerful compared with the carrot,'' Professor Barro said.
 While noting that ''we need a lot more and better data before we can be confident about the results'' of such studies, Professor Iannaccone says economists should pay more attention to the intersection of religion and economics. ''It's almost impossible to live in the 21st century and look around and say that religion has no impact anymore,'' he said. 
 INDEED, while Adam Smith's ''Inquiry Into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations'' has been the bible for generations of economists, signs indicate that some older sacred texts matter to them as well. In December 2002, when Vernon L. Smith, a pioneer in experimental economics, accepted the Nobel in economic science, he paid tribute to many intellectual influences beyond his mentors and colleagues. He cited Benjamin Franklin, the Enlightenment philosopher David Hume and several of the Ten Commandments. The strictures against stealing or coveting a neighbor's possessions, he noted, ''provide the property-right foundations for markets.'' And the prohibition against murder, adultery and bearing false witness ''provide the foundations for cohesive social exchange.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); TRENDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); SOCIOLOGY (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); ETHICS (71%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Religion and Churches; Research

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (72%) Daniel Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GUATEMALA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



89 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2017 words

HEADLINE: A Coming Nightmare of Homeownership?

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
IT is literally a trillion-dollar question: What will a humbled, reined-in Fannie Mae, the nation's biggest mortgage provider, mean to the economy, the financial markets, interest rates and housing in America?
 Since regulators disclosed evidence of widespread accounting improprieties at the company, which carries almost $1 trillion in mortgages on its books, the response from the financial markets has been surprisingly muted. To be sure, Fannie Mae's stock has lost 14 percent of its value, but its debt securities have held fairly steady and the pools of mortgages it sells to investors have continued to attract buyers. 
 Even if Fannie Mae's troubles are eventually worked out, there may be other, potentially nasty reverberations from the company's weakened position. These include a possible hit to the dollar if foreign investors, who have bought so much of the company's debt, become alarmed by the accounting problems and sell. 
 James A. Bianco of Bianco Research in Chicago, said he thinks foreigners might well cut back on their Fannie Mae debt holdings, as they seem to have done when Freddie Mac, another government-sponsored enterprise in the mortgage business, had its own accounting problems last year. ''If Freddie spooked foreigners, the Fannie scandal will exacerbate the trend,'' he said.
 In addition, Fannie Mae's woes could work against the Federal Reserve Board as it moves to keep inflation in check by raising interest rates. If the company, under heightened scrutiny, decides that it must manage its interest rate risk more aggressively, it would have to buy huge amounts of Treasury securities. Doing so would push rates down further, creating a vicious cycle in which more homeowners refinance their mortgages, leaving Fannie Mae with a larger mismatch between the longer-term debt they have issued to buy the mortgages and the shorter-lived mortgages themselves. 
 Still, the most damaging legacy of Fannie Mae's years of unchecked growth may not be evident until the next significant economic slump. Only then, argued Josh Rosner, an analyst at Medley Global Advisors in New York, will the effects of Fannie Mae's relaxed mortgage underwriting standards be felt. A result could be a more pronounced downturn in the real estate market and more stress on the consumer.
 ''The move to push homeownership on people that historically would not have had the finances or credit to qualify could conceivably and ultimately turn Fannie Mae's American dream of homeownership into the American nightmare of homeownership where people are trapped in their homes,'' Mr. Rosner said. ''If incomes don't rise or home values don't keep rising, or if interest rates rose considerably, you could quickly end up with significantly more people underwater with their mortgages and unable to pay.''
 SO far, Fannie Mae's rarefied status as a government-sponsored enterprise has certainly helped holders of its debt stay calm. But life for the company is surely about to change. The biggest difference will be in Fannie Mae's growth. For years, its regulator, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, has allowed the company to expand its business and portfolio to the max. Thanks in large part to Fannie Mae's torrid growth, the market for mortgage securities now surpasses that for Treasury securities. 
 According to traders and some respected analysts, the ripple effects of Fannie Mae's woes will almost certainly include further declines in its shares, among the most widely held in the nation. That is partly because Fannie Mae's costs will go up as it obeys its regulator and sets aside more capital to back its operations. Its costs may also increase if investors demand higher interest rates from Fannie Mae on its debt, as often occurs when companies encounter difficulties. 
 ''The model of the Fannie management and shareholders getting the upside and taxpayers being stuck with the downside, in the event Fannie runs into trouble, is likely to change,'' said Sean Egan, president of Egan-Jones Rating Services, an independent debt rating firm that does not receive payments from companies that it analyzes. ''We expect Fannie will experience several years of curtailed growth, a rebuilding of capital and stricter government oversight.'' Unlike Moody's and Standard & Poor's, which assign the highest rating -- AAA -- to Fannie Mae debt, Egan-Jones gives it just an A. 
 Fannie Mae was chartered in 1938 by Congress to support homeownership and was privatized 30 years later. Unlike big banks operating in the mortgage business, the company doesn't make loans outright. It buys mortgages from lenders, holding on to some while packaging others for sale to investors. 
 Because Fannie Mae is sponsored by the government, the money it raises to buy mortgages costs less in interest expense than what banks must pay. But much of this savings is passed on to the company's executives and shareholders; little goes to home buyers. 
 So one thing that will probably not result from a smaller Fannie Mae is a big increase in mortgage costs. According to a Federal Reserve study, Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's mortgage rates are only 0.07 percent lower than competitors' loans, on average. For a median-priced mortgage of $160,000 maturing in 30 years, that savings translates to $7 a month. And while first-time home buyers account for 41 percent of all home purchases, only 25 percent of Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's loans go to these buyers. 
 Fannie Mae is the second-largest issuer of debt in the nation, after the government, making it one of the top fee producers for Wall Street firms. Since 2001, the company's long-term debt has risen 24 percent, to $950 billion; since 1992, its debt has more than quadrupled.
 As its debt ballooned, Fannie Mae maintained a capital reserve of just 2 percent of assets, far below the 8 percent held by comparable banks. Now, however, accusations that the company manipulated its financial results mean that the days of minimal capital levels at Fannie Mae are over. Last week, the company said it would add $5 billion to capital in coming months at its regulator's request.
 Fannie Mae debt is everywhere, held by mutual funds, foreign investors, banks and other institutions. Indeed, because of the implicit government guarantee behind Fannie Mae's debt, the nation's banks can make unlimited investments in Fannie Mae debt obligations; they are limited in the amount they can invest in other companies' securities. 
 According to a recent study by the Republican Policy Committee in the Senate, 6 out of 10 banks nationwide have more than half of their equity capital invested in the debt of issuers like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 Fannie Mae's government link gives great comfort to its debt holders. But some analysts wonder if the credit quality of the mortgages that Fannie Mae backs and pools is as solid as many people believe. 
 Mr. Rosner, the analyst at Medley Global Advisors, says he has been warning of problems at Fannie Mae since late 2003. He points out that Fannie Mae has come to dominate all aspects of the mortgage business; the company is now the primary source of software programs used by banks for underwriting mortgages, appraising properties and working out problem loans. 
 Are the software programs too lenient? With Fannie Mae's regulator severely questioning the company's accounting and risk management systems, Mr. Rosner said, the company's other systems -- like these software programs -- could be designed to produce earnings growth. 
 ''Investors and policymakers need to call into question all of the systems they put into place -- automated underwriting and automated appraisal systems on the front end and loss mitigation systems on the back end,'' he said. ''Were they put into place with safety and soundness as the goal, or with growth as the driver? And were they properly stress tested? And by whom?''
 Fannie Mae says that its systems are closely monitored and allow for consistent credit risk analysis; the company also has a team of people looking to improve the models whenever possible, it said.
 There is certainly a lot riding on them. Even five years ago, there were more than a half-dozen automated underwriting systems that banks commonly used in originating mortgages. Now, the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac systems dominate. 
 To be sure, Fannie Mae considers homeownership for all as its mission. In 1994, at the suggestion of the Clinton administration, the company partnered with the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Treasury Department, the Mortgage Bankers Association, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Association of Realtors and others to figure out how to increase homeownership across the nation. The collaborative effort worked, reversing the trend in the previous decade: homeownership has risen to a record high of 69.2 percent from 64.1 percent in 1991.
 Relaxed credit terms, like zero-down payment options encouraged by Fannie Mae and other lenders, helped. In some cases, even closing costs can now be borrowed.
 But homeowners who rely on easy money are much more vulnerable to losing their homes in an economic downturn than are people who have sizable equity in their properties. To appreciate just how leveraged homeowners have become, consider a common measure of homeowners' equity: the loan to value, or the percentage of a property's value that is borrowed. The median loan to value rose to 58.7 percent in 2003 from 33 percent in 1979. 
 More ominous, Census Bureau data shows that the percentage of home mortgages in which the loan is equal to or exceeds the value of the property has been growing significantly in recent years. In 1993, this figure was 2.1 percent; last year, it reached 5.4 percent. 
 According to Mr. Rosner, Fannie Mae's automated underwriting software allows borrowers with ''good credit'' to take on higher debt based on their incomes than is the case in traditional or manual underwriting. Fannie Mae's promotional documents note that its software ''allows strengths in one area such as past credit history to offset other areas such as low down payment or limited cash reserves.'' 
 What if a borrower gets into trouble on his mortgage? A Fannie Mae software program, Home Saver Solutions, allows him to modify the loan to keep it from defaulting. For instance, someone who is behind on payments can add the amount in arrears to the total mortgage and stretch it out over the loan's term . 
 Since 1997, the number of loans that were in preforeclosure and then worked out has risen to 50 percent from 35 percent, Fannie Mae said. 
 AGGRESSIVE workouts of problem loans may be contributing to significantly lower default rates at Fannie Mae than is the case at, say, the Federal Housing Administration. Data from the Mortgage Bankers Association show that F.H.A. loans have default rates of more than 11 percent, while default rates among all conventional mortgages are averaging 2 percent. Fannie Mae, by comparison, says its rate is 0.59 percent. The company says the low default rate results from superior credit analysis and technology. 
 But in many cases, working out troubled loans only postpones the inevitable. A government study in early 2002 found that more than 20 percent of loans that had been worked out fell back into trouble later. The number would rise sharply in a downturn. 
 Of course, if a significant number of loans held or backed by Fannie Mae were to default, taxpayers would have to cover the bill. 
 Given these risks, nothing short of a top-to-bottom assessment of Fannie Mae's books is in order, said Muriel Siebert, a former superintendent of banks in New York and the owner of a discount brokerage firm. 
 ''If I were a regulator today I would call the Federal Reserve Bank, the New York State Banking department, the comptroller of currency, the F.D.I.C. and say, 'What examiners do you have that you could loan us, because I want to do a total examination of this company?' Ms. Siebert said. ''With something that vast and that important to the economy, you have to start from zero.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Growing Risk''Thanks in part to Fannie Mae's more aggressive lending practices, many more mortgages are equal to, or exceed, the value of the property upon which the loan is based. The company is trying to help more problem loans avoid foreclosure and stay on Fannie Mae's books as assets.Graph tracks share of all mortgages outstanding in the United States that represent 100 percent or more of the property value from 1991 through 2003.Graph tracks share of Fannie Mae's problem loans reworked to keep them from going into foreclosure from 1997 through 2003.(Sources by Census Bureau
 Fannie Mae)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ACCOUNTING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); ETHICS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); DEBT FINANCING (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (73%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (72%); BONDS (72%); SCANDALS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) Ethics; Accounting and Accountants; United States Economy; Interest Rates; Housing; Currency; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Finances; Government Bonds; Mortgages

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (94%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) Fannie Mae; Federal Reserve System; Fannie Mae

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: Gretchen Morgenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



90 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Just Pet the Goose, Arnold

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
GOV. ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER has repeatedly complained about California's hyperactive Legislature, whose members in his view spend all their time dreaming up silly or strange bills to amuse themselves, torture him and make California the most overregulated state in the nation.
 ''There's a lot of things that we have to do, but they're not doing that,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger grumbled in an interview with National Public Radio in August. ''They're sitting there and I'm getting bills here about how to feed a goose.'' 
 Guess who signed Senate Bill 1520 last week, outlawing the force-feeding of ducks and geese to produce foie gras?
 For all his talk about how California has become the ultimate nanny state, driving out businesses by garlanding them in bureaucratic red tape, Mr. Schwarzenegger is learning that many of the hundreds of bills produced by the legislature, as silly as they may sound, have legitimate purposes and hard-to-ignore constituencies.
 Even under Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican who ran on a promise to free the citizenry from unneeded regulation, California continues to be the nation's leading producer of wine, broccoli and legislation.
 The Legislature has sent Mr. Schwarzenegger 1,270 bills since he became governor. He vetoed 311, or 24.4 per cent, one of the highest veto rates in the past 30 years, according to records kept by the Legislature. But he signed scores of bills that can only be described as new regulations, even a few that some people might call frivolous. They may make the state safer or cleaner, but they are going to cost somebody some money.
 Over the past two weeks, Governor Schwarzenegger signed bills banning the sale of thermostats containing mercury, toughening labeling requirements for plastic bags, setting new fees for inspecting dairy farms, prohibiting steep increases in hotel and motel room rates during a disaster, expanding hate-crimes legislation to include protection for transvestites, allowing cable television companies to run background checks on installers, regulating sales of violent video games to minors, prohibiting the declawing of cats used in entertainment, banning certain types of assault rifles, requiring health insurers to provide gay partners benefits equal to those for heterosexual couples and allowing the sale of clean needles to slow the spread of AIDS.
 He created a 25-million-acre conservancy that covers most of the Sierra Nevada Mountains in California and banned the discharge of sewage from cruise ships within three miles of the state's coastline. He allowed owners of high-mileage hybrid cars to use freeway car-pool lanes. He made the state's 1,500 tanning salons off limits to children under the age of 14. He imposed penalties for ''teak surfing,'' the practice of holding onto the swim platform of a moving motorboat and then bodysurfing on the boat's wake. The sport has killed three people who inhaled fatal amounts of carbon monoxide from the engines' exhaust. And on and on.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger may think the California Legislature writes too many laws, but that's what legislatures do. It's right there in the constitution, noted Timothy Hodson, executive director of the Center for California Studies at California State University, Sacramento.
 ''Legislatures are supposed to enact laws,'' he said. ''The foie gras bill is ready-made for jokes on Jay Leno, but it is backed by PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals), which commands the allegiance of thousands of people in California and across the United States. It's not an insignificant fringe bill. It's supremely easy to ridicule legislatures and lawmaking, until you sit down and ask where this bill or that bill came from.''
 Analysts say California has often been in the national vanguard in passing legislation and enacting regulations, particularly on environmental and consumer safety issues. The state has one of only four full-time legislatures in the country, with a large and well-financed professional staff. Every year it churns out 1,000 or more bills. The Legislature has been dominated by Democrats for a decade and sees itself as a counterweight to the Republican Congress and the Bush administration, said Bruce Cain, director of the Institute for Governmental Studies at the University of California, Berkeley.
 ''The more they sense the federal government is relaxing its grip, the more activism there will be on the state level,'' Mr. Cain said.
 But even as Mr. Schwarzenegger was signing hundreds of new laws, he was also wielding an active veto pen and fulfilling promises to important business lobbies. He vetoed an increase in the state's minimum wage, saying it would make the state less competitive with its neighbors. He killed a bill that would have required cities and counties to prepare economic impact reports on the building of giant Wal-Marts and other superstores. He vetoed stringent new pollution rules for the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, saying they would slow growth at the nation's busiest ports. He knocked down labor-backed bills to stop the outsourcing of jobs and state purchasing. He vetoed a bill to set up a state Web site to help Californians find cheaper prescription drugs in Canada.
 These and other vetoes thrilled the state Chamber of Commerce, which had all of these measures on its list of ''job killer bills.''
 ''There were no major disappointments for us,'' said Allan Zaremberg, president of the California chamber. ''He campaigned on this agenda of making California a friendlier place to do business, and what he has done is certainly consistent with that philosophy.''
 But one constituency will have to wait for another year, or another governor, to get its wish. Mr. Schwarzenegger vetoed a bill that would have legalized ferret ownership in California for the first time.
 ''I love ferrets,'' the governor said in his veto message. ''I costarred with a ferret in Kindergarten Cop. However, this bill is far too bureaucratic.''


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Greg Clarke) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); VETO (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); HATE CRIME (70%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); AIDS & HIV (69%); INSURANCE (66%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (66%); CRIMINAL LAW (66%); PRODUCT LABELING (66%); COHABITATION (65%); CATS (65%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (64%); MARINE VESSELS (63%); MOUNTAINS (62%); CHILDREN (61%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); CRUISES (60%); TANNING SALONS (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); SURFING (60%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (60%); FIREARMS (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (57%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (57%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



91 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Optimistic That It Can Keep Control of Congress

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
Congressional Republicans are poised to hold or to slightly expand their majorities in the House and Senate this November, though Senate Democrats retain an outside chance of slipping back into control. 
 As they analyze the House contests, most lawmakers, strategists and independent handicappers see little opportunity for Democrats in the House to gain the dozen seats they need to capture the majority, given the small field of competitive races being run on issues ranging from a candidate's business history to old tax votes. Democratic leaders reject that view.
 In the Senate, where Republicans hold a 51-to-48 majority, with one independent, at least eight races could go either way and incumbents are threatened in a handful of others, putting command of that chamber in doubt, though Republicans hold the advantage.
 Senate Democrats say their prospects are significantly improved from last year, when a rash of retirements sparked talk of a major shift toward the Republicans, and they boast of formidable campaigns in Southern and Western states that typically favor the opposition. 
 ''Given the fact that we are running in tough territory, we are in a very, very strong position,'' said Senator Jon Corzine, Democrat of New Jersey and chairman of the party's Senate campaign effort. But he acknowledged that he had little margin for error.
 ''I am not declaring victory,'' Mr. Corzine said. ''I am declaring that we are right at the cusp of being able to take this back.''
 Republicans dismiss such talk and note that Democrats have more seats to defend. They say the combination of President Bush at the top of the ticket and the traditional Republican leanings of states like Alaska, Colorado, Oklahoma and the Carolinas will ultimately carry their candidates there to victory. And for the main prize, the party also hopes to oust the Senate Democratic leader, Tom Daschle, in South Dakota, where he is in a tight race with John Thune, a former congressman.
 ''If things breaks right, I expect we could pick up a couple of seats,'' said Senator George Allen of Virginia, Mr. Corzine's Republican counterpart. 
 While the Senate Republican organization has a significant financial advantage over the Democrats, both parties have been busy raising money for the final push, leaning on senators with fat campaign accounts to contribute to the party. Several have provided checks of up to $1 million. 
 Party strategists say their top-tier candidates will have the financial resources they need, with both parties planning significant advertising in crucial states.
 No national theme has emerged in the Senate races, media advisers and party operatives say, though all candidates proclaimed their support for better domestic security in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks, an issue that has joined taxes as a frequent topic. On the tax front, Democrats have found what they consider a successful theme in the South Carolina race, one they would like to nationalize: a Republican proposal for a federal sales tax to replace the income tax.
 Backed by more than $1 million in advertising from the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, Inez Tenenbaum, the South Carolina education superintendent and a Democratic candidate for Congress, has pounded her Republican opponent, Representative Jim DeMint, for his support of a national sales tax that she contends would drive up the cost of consumer goods for middle-class families. The issue has helped make the race very close, but one of Mr. DeMint's advisers says the tax focus will ultimately backfire on Democratic candidates.
 ''They are barking up the wrong tree,'' said Scott Howell, a Dallas-based media consultant working on Mr. DeMint's campaign. ''People hate the I.R.S. And Democrats have no credibility on taxes.'' 
 Next door in North Carolina, Erskine Bowles, a Democrat who lost a Senate bid two years ago, has consistently led Representative Richard M. Burr, a Republican, in polls. Mr. Burr has recently gained ground with advertisements linking Mr. Bowles, a former White House chief of staff, with his former boss Bill Clinton on trade and tax policies. Democrats are optimistic that they can hold the seat being vacated by John Edwards, partly because Mr. Edwards is on the ballot as the Democratic vice-presidential candidate.
 The Democratic strategy to recapture the Senate rests on the ability to win Republican-held seats in Alaska, Colorado and Oklahoma. Recent polls there have shown the Democratic candidates narrowly ahead. 
 The party has been spending heavily in Alaska on behalf of former Gov. Tony Knowles in his battle with Senator Lisa Murkowski, a Republican who has been dogged by charges of nepotism because she was appointed to the seat by her father, Gov. Frank H. Murkowski. She has responded by trying to tie Mr. Knowles to Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential candidate, and his opposition to oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.
 In Colorado, Ken Salazar, a Democrat who has twice been elected state attorney general, has been sparring over the economy with his Republican rival, Peter H. Coors, an executive of the family brewing company. Senate Republicans expect to weigh in heavily in coming days with advertising. Democrats are also focusing on Oklahoma, where a former Republican congressman, Tom Coburn, a physician, has been caught up in a controversy over an old malpractice case.
 ''Oklahoma is tough,'' Senator Allen conceded. He noted, however, that he expected Mr. Bush to carry the state by 20 percentage points or more, aiding Mr. Coburn in his race with Representative Brad Carson, a Democrat.
 In races Republicans have on their target list, they have not given up on unseating Senator Patty Murray in Washington, where she has held a comfortable lead. Her opponent, Representative George Nethercutt, is running a commercial using video of past comments by Ms. Murray regarding Osama bin Laden to suggest she excused the Sept. 11 attacks.
 In the remarks, made two years ago, Ms. Murray, whose campaign called the Nethercutt attack desperate, sought to explain Mr. bin Laden's appeal by pointing out his work in Arab countries ''building schools, building roads, building infrastructure, building day care facilities.'' 
 Republicans claim new hopes in Wisconsin, where Senator Russell D. Feingold is being challenged by Tim Michels, a Republican businessman, who has run an advertisement mocking Mr. Feingold's long push for changes in campaign finance law. Mr. Michels, who trails in the polls, has also criticized Mr. Feingold for not doing enough to pass legislation allowing the importation of lower-priced prescription drugs from Canada. He has drawn independent criticism for that claim, since Mr. Feingold is a strong proponent of drug imports and a consistent sponsor of legislation to allow the practice.
 In the House, Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leader, disputes the assertion that Democrats cannot win the majority.
 Ms. Pelosi said 14 Republican incumbents facing serious Democratic opposition had yet to crack the 50 percent mark in polls, putting their seats in Arizona, Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Kentucky and elsewhere within reach. Citing that fact as well as the strength of Democratic candidates for 20 open seats, she said she remained optimistic.
 Republicans say they see no sign of a Democratic surge and expect a gain in seats, helped in part by a Texas redistricting plan that benefited Republicans. ''There is next to no mathematical way we lose the House,'' said Carl Forti, a spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee.
 Amy Walter, an analyst for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report, said she estimated a potential swing of three House seats in either direction, which would not shift the balance of power.


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Senate Seats Up for Grabs''Voters will select 34 senators this fall, with several of the seats having the potential to switch parties. Here's a look at open seats and anticipated tight races.Seats currently held by:Democrats (19 at stake)Republicans (15 at stake)In seats held by Democrats ...TOSSUPSLOUISIANA (open primary)(D) Chris John U.S. House of Representatives(D) Arthur Morrel Louisiana House of Representatives(R) David Vitter U.S. House of Representatives(D) John Kennedy State treasurerFLORIDA(D) Betty Castor Former state education commissioner(R) Mel Martinez Former U.S. housing secretaryNORTH CAROLINA(D) Erskine Bowles Former White House chief of staff(R) Richard M. Burr U.S. House of RepresentativesSOUTH CAROLINA(R) Jim DeMint U.S. House of Representatives(D) Inez Tenenbaum State superintendent of educationSOUTH DAKOTA(R) John Thune Former U.S. representative(D) Tom Daschle IncumbentIn seats held by Republicans ...TOSSUPSALASKA(D) Tony Knowles Former governor(R) Lisa Murkowski IncumbentCOLORADO(R) Peter H. Coors Corporate executive(D) Ken Salazar State attorney generalOKLAHOMA(R) Tom Coburn Physician, former U.S. representative(D) Brad Carson U.S. House of RepresentativesLEANING DEMOCRATIC ...WASHINGTON(D) Patty Murray Incumbent(R) George Nethercutt U.S. House of RepresentativesWISCONSIN(R) Tim Michels Co-owner of construction company(D) Russell D. Feingold, Incumbent... OR REPUBLICANPENNSYLVANIA(D) Joseph M. Hoeffel U.S. House of Representatives(R) Arlen Specter IncumbentMap of the United States highlighting the states where Senate seats are up for election.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%) 

ORGANIZATION: US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (94%) House of Representatives (US); Senate (US); Congress (US)

PERSON: JOHN THUNE (89%); TOM COBURN (79%); JON CORZINE (79%); TOM DASCHLE (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); LISA MURKOWSKI (59%); KEN SALAZAR (59%); ARLEN SPECTER (59%); RUSS FEINGOLD (59%); DAVID VITTER (59%); RICHARD BURR (59%); PATTY MURRAY (59%); JIM DEMINT (59%); MEL MARTINEZ (59%); ERSKINE BOWLES (50%) Carl Hulse

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) United States; Southern States (US); Western States (US); United States

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



92 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; The Nation: The Draft Card; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1563 words

HEADLINE: The Option Nobody's Pushing. Yet.

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: CHARLESTON, W.Va. 

 BODY:
IN the worried steel town of Weirton, W.Va., last week, the first question from the crowd that came out to hear Senator John Edwards was not about the economy, tariffs or health care. It was about the draft: Is a new one coming? 
 The Democratic candidate for vice president was unequivocal. Not in a Kerry-Edwards administration, he replied. But Erika Lontz, a 19-year-old college sophomore, was not reassured. ''Students worry about it a lot,'' she said later. ''With the way the war is going, how could you not?''
 Though President Bush and Senator John Kerry talk about it in only the most glancing ways -- the president pledged to defeat terrorism with ''an all-volunteer army'' during Thursday's presidential debate -- many people across the country are wondering just who will fight the nation's wars. 
 There is good reason to ask. By most accounts, the military, particularly the Army, has been spread thin by America's global commitments, and signs of strain are mounting. 
 More than one-third of nearly 3,900 former soldiers mobilized under a special wartime program have resisted their call-ups. The Army National Guard fell nearly 10 percent short of its 2004 recruiting goal of 56,000 enlistees. The Army, concerned about recruiting, has eased some standards. And there have been bipartisan calls in Congress to expand the Army by more than 20,000 soldiers. 
 Just months ago, Pentagon officials suggested that a new draft could be avoided if recruitment and retention numbers stayed high. But as fighting in Iraq escalates, signs are growing that those numbers may not be adequate in the coming years. Thus, the new talk about a draft. 
 Of course, enacting a draft has historically been a matter of political will, democratic ideals and high passion, as much as military need. Some have long argued that citizenship is enhanced by having all young people serve; others contend that forced conscription violates democratic ideals. At various times, the draft has been sought either as a way to prepare for going to war, or to inhibit the temptation to do so. These days, public polls indicate that most people do not favor the idea.
 And so, not surprisingly, both the president and Senator Kerry have outlined plans to relieve the military strain -- without resorting to a draft.
 The Bush administration has called for pulling troops out of Europe and South Korea, expanding the number of combat brigades to shorten rotations and increasing the size of the Army temporarily by about 30,000 soldiers, in many cases by delaying their departure from the armed forces. 
 Mr. Kerry has countered with proposals to expand the Army permanently by 40,000 soldiers, speed up training of Iraqi forces, double the number of Army special-forces troops and increase international forces in Iraq. Doing so will allow a swifter drawing down of America's 135,000 troops in Iraq, he contends.
 The mathematics behind these suggestions can be sobering. In the combined American armed forces there are 1.4 million active-duty troops, with another 865,000 National Guard members and reservists. That may sound like a big pool to draw from, but consider: Total active Army and Marine personnel are about 655,000, and that includes support units, training units, headquarters personnel and others who do not go to the front. During a prolonged war like that in Iraq, units sent to the front have to be rotated out and replaced with an equal number while they rest and retrain. 
 So maintaining a level of 135,000 ground troops in Iraq, another 20,000 in Afghanistan and a smaller force in the Balkans, while a garrison of 36,000 (soon to be reduced) guards the Korean armistice line and other troops maintain bases in Europe, creates a major strain. The current system is already drawing on Guard and reserve units to fill the gap. What is more, some military officers and political figures have long questioned whether 135,000 troops is a large enough force to prevail in Iraq.
 What if another big deployment is needed? Estimates vary widely on how many additional troops might be required, but some analysts say the current overall force could easily fall short by more than 70,000 ground troops. In the 1991 gulf war, when Saddam Hussein was at the height of his power, the United States sent 500,000 troops to evict Iraqi forces from Kuwait. 
 So while military analysts have welcomed the presidential candidates' proposals as important first steps to address personnel needs, they have raised serious concerns about both. Even conservatives have questioned whether Mr. Bush would expand the Army enough to pacify Iraq. 
 ''You might be able to squeeze more people out of pockets of the military, but the truth is, there is a limit to what you can do there,'' said Gary Schmitt, executive director of the Project for the New American Century, a conservative group that favors permanent expansion of the Army.
 Mr. Schmitt and other analysts also say Mr. Kerry's proposal to internationalize the forces in Iraq is unrealistic. France and Germany, the countries with the best militaries not already in Iraq, oppose sending forces there and either face legal restrictions on deploying troops overseas or are overextended themselves.
 ''A French admiral once told me: 'Your generals' problem is our generals' problem: we are stretched too thin,' said Andrew Krepinevich, executive director of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, a military policy organization. 
 But the most striking shortcoming in both plans, experts say, is their lack of allowance for another major conflict -- if war erupts on the Korean Peninsula, or tensions with Iran boil over, or the United States suffers a major terrorist attack.
 A Pentagon-appointed panel recently concluded that the military would lack the forces to handle its current combat and stabilization operations if new crises emerged. The report, which has not been made public, apparently did not address the issue of a draft. But some policy makers have said it points to the potential need for one.
 ''We have put ourselves in a position where we don't have the capability to handle another major contingency,'' said Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat and a West Point graduate.
 Experts say that getting Congress to approve a draft would probably be more difficult than implementing one. Draft boards exist, and 18-year-olds must register. All that would be required would be to determine who is eligible.
 But there is little political appetite in Washington for a new draft. ''The one sure way to lose public support for the war in Iraq is to say we will institute a draft,'' Mr. Krepinevich said. 
 History seems to bear him out. The United States has instituted the draft three times -- during the Civil War and the two world wars. During the Civil War, when draftees could buy their way out of service, gangs in New York rioted and attacked blacks when the police tried to enforce conscription. Anti-draft protesters went to jail during World War I. 
 In the draft that was virtually continuous from 1940 to 1973, there were few protests during World War II and only muted complaints during the Korean War, but Vietnam was another matter. President Richard Nixon pushed to end the draft in the early 1970's in the hopes of defusing the unruly antiwar protests that had begun when his predecessor, Lyndon Johnson, was president. 
 Yet at other times, politicians have also been willing to use the draft to appease another potent constituency, the families of National Guard and reserve troops, said George Q. Flynn, a retired history professor and the author of three books on the draft. President Johnson, he said, chose to expand the draft rather than use guard and reserve troops for combat in Vietnam, he said.
 Mr. Flynn said a similar dynamic may be taking form today, as guard and reserve troops express growing anger about repeated long rotations in Iraq. ''One reason you hear talk of a draft today is that there may be a big political price to pay for using these reservists and National Guard,'' he said. 
 Professor Flynn is among those who believe a draft would be a good thing. He contends it engenders powerful feelings of citizenship, while spreading military service across a broader cross section of society. Some Democrats, led by Representative Charles Rangel of New York, who has sponsored legislation to require military or other national service from all young adults, also say a draft would prevent a rush into war. 
 But critics of the draft, including senior advisors to both President Bush and Senator Kerry, say conscription would reduce morale, cost too much and create short-term soldiers with inadequate training.
 There is another solution to the overstretched military, some people argue: reducing America's commitments overseas. Charles Pena, director of defense policy studies at the libertarian Cato Institute, said America should withdraw troops from Iraq, Europe and Korea. But he acknowledges that his is a minority position.
 For that reason, people like Sharon Underwood, here in Charleston, expect Army recruiters to keep calling their sons. 
 Ms. Underwood said the calls come almost weekly. She has persuaded her two sons, ages 18 and 19, not to enlist. But she is convinced a draft is on the way. ''I'm just terrified about it,'' she said. ''They just seem to need new troops so desperately.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The first group of draftees being sworn in under the Selective Service Program, 1940. (Photo by International News Photo)
 Draft card burning in Chicago, 1969. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 12)Drawing (Drawing by Michael Bierut, recruitment poster via Swim Inc./Corbis)(pg. 1)Chart: ''In the Army Now''Men drafted into the military, from World War I through the end of the draft in 1973.1940 -- President Franklin D. Roosevelt signs the Selective Training and Service Act, creating the first peacetime draft and establishing the Selective Service System as an independent Federal agency.1969 -- A lottery drawing is held to determine the order of call for induction during calendar year 1970.1973 -- Ending the draft, the U.S. converts to an all-volunteer military.Registration requirement is suspended in April 1975, but is resumed in 1980 by President Carter in response to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. All men reaching the age of 18 are required to register with Selective Service. Women, by law, are excluded.Graph tracks number of men drafted into the military since 1917 to 1973.(Source by Selective Service System)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); WORLD WAR I (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MILITARY RECRUITING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); TERRORISM (54%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SELECTIVE SERVICE SYSTEM (84%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (90%); JIMMY CARTER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (58%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



93 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Iraq: Politics Or Policy?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Sorry, I've been away writing a book. I'm back, so let's get right down to business: We're in trouble in Iraq.
 I don't know what is salvageable there anymore. I hope it is something decent and I am certain we have to try our best to bring about elections and rebuild the Iraqi Army to give every chance for decency to emerge there. But here is the cold, hard truth: This war has been hugely mismanaged by this administration, in the face of clear advice to the contrary at every stage, and as a result the range of decent outcomes in Iraq has been narrowed and the tools we have to bring even those about are more limited than ever. 
 What happened? The Bush team got its doctrines mixed up: it applied the Powell Doctrine to the campaign against John Kerry -- ''overwhelming force'' without mercy, based on a strategy of shock and awe at the Republican convention, followed by a propaganda blitz that got its message across in every possible way, including through distortion. If only the Bush team had gone after the remnants of Saddam's army in the Sunni Triangle with the brutal efficiency it has gone after Senator Kerry in the Iowa-Ohio-Michigan triangle. If only the Bush team had spoken to Iraqis and Arabs with as clear a message as it did to the Republican base. No, alas, while the Bush people applied the Powell Doctrine in the Midwest, they applied the Rumsfeld Doctrine in the Middle East. And the Rumsfeld Doctrine is: ''Just enough troops to lose.'' Donald Rumsfeld tried to prove that a small, mobile army was all that was needed to topple Saddam, without realizing that such a limited force could never stabilize Iraq. He never thought it would have to. He thought his Iraqi pals would do it. He was wrong.
 For all of President Bush's vaunted talk about being consistent and resolute, the fact is he never established U.S. authority in Iraq. Never. This has been the source of all our troubles. We have never controlled all the borders, we have never even consistently controlled the road from Baghdad airport into town, because we never had enough troops to do it.
 Being away has not changed my belief one iota in the importance of producing a decent outcome in Iraq, to help move the Arab-Muslim world off its steady slide toward increased authoritarianism, unemployment, overpopulation, suicidal terrorism and religious obscurantism. But my time off has clarified for me, even more, that this Bush team can't get us there, and may have so messed things up that no one can. Why? Because each time the Bush team had to choose between doing the right thing in the war on terrorism or siding with its political base and ideology, it chose its base and ideology. More troops or radically lower taxes? Lower taxes. Fire an evangelical Christian U.S. general who smears Islam in a speech while wearing the uniform of the U.S. Army or not fire him so as not to anger the Christian right? Don't fire him. Apologize to the U.N. for not finding the W.M.D., and then make the case for why our allies should still join us in Iraq to establish a decent government there? Don't apologize -- for anything -- because Karl Rove says the ''base'' won't like it. Impose a ''Patriot Tax'' of 50 cents a gallon on gasoline to help pay for the war, shrink the deficit and reduce the amount of oil we consume so we send less money to Saudi Arabia? Never. Just tell Americans to go on guzzling. Fire the secretary of defense for the abuses at Abu Ghraib, to show the world how seriously we take this outrage -- or do nothing? Do nothing. Firing Mr. Rumsfeld might upset conservatives. Listen to the C.I.A.? Only when it can confirm your ideology. When it disagrees -- impugn it or ignore it.
 What I resent so much is that some of us actually put our personal politics aside in thinking about this war and about why it is so important to produce a different Iraq. This administration never did. Mr. Kerry's own views on Iraq have been intensely political and for a long time not well thought through. But Mr. Kerry is a politician running for office. Mr. Bush is president, charged with protecting the national interest, and yet from the beginning he has run Iraq policy as an extension of his political campaign.
 Friends, I return to where I started: We're in trouble in Iraq. We have to immediately get the Democratic and Republican politics out of this policy and start honestly reassessing what is the maximum we can still achieve there and what every American is going to have to do to make it happen. If we do not, we'll end up not only with a fractured Iraq, but with a fractured America, at war with itself and isolated from the world.

Maureen Dowd is off today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); RELIGION (71%); TERRORISM (60%); BORDER CONTROL (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



94 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: In Florida, Kerry Says 'American Dream Is on the Ballot'

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Oct. 2 

 BODY:
Saying ''the American dream is on the ballot,'' Senator John Kerry called President Bush out of touch and unconcerned with the plight of ordinary people, and vowed Saturday that if he is elected, the middle class will know, ''I've got your back.''
 ''Wages are falling, medical bills are rising, families can't afford to send their kids to college, and they tell us, 'Hey, don't worry, this is the best economy of our lifetime,''' Mr. Kerry said, as he aimed squarely at Mr. Bush's domestic record both on the campaign trail and in a pair of new television advertisements. 
 For the second day, Mr. Kerry mocked Mr. Bush's performance in their debate Thursday night, parroting some of what seemed Mr. Bush's verbal tics. ''George Bush can't see the problems, so he can't solve them,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''He confuses staying in place -- just kind of saying, 'It's tough, it's hard work, you got to make a decision' -- he considers that, and confuses that, with leadership.''
 Merging his indictment of Mr. Bush's economic record with an attack on the president's candor about Iraq, Mr. Kerry said the administration was in a ''constant state of denial.''
 ''The real test of leadership,'' he said, ''is how you respond if things go wrong. Did you face the facts, do you own up to the American people, do you tell the truth, and do you fix the problems? Or do you stick with your story and ignore reality?''
 Mr. Kerry's speech, at Freedom High School here, was billed as ''a new choice for middle-class families,'' and was organized around the theme he first sounded in Thursday night's debate: that election represented a choice of ''change versus more of the same,'' a mantra from Bill Clinton's 1992 campaign.
 ''We already know what four more years of a Bush administration will look like,'' he said. ''Every choice that they've made has been to give more to those with the most, at the same time telling everyone else, 'You're on your own.'''
 Mr. Kerry has distilled his critique of Mr. Bush to four main areas in which he says he offers a better plan: jobs, health care, tax policy and energy policy. ''George Bush has a four-word plan: more of the same,'' he said, pointing to jobs being ''shipped overseas,'' dwindling real incomes, rising costs for health care, gas and college tuition, and soaring personal bankruptcies.
 Following the script of Michael Moore's ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' polemic, Mr. Kerry attacked Mr. Bush for having joked in 2000 to a white-tie Manhattan audience of the wealthy and powerful that ''some people call you the elite; I call you my base.''
 ''Four years of Bush choices, and four years of Bush policies later, nobody's laughing,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''That's what he stands for, and that's who he stands for, and that's who he's been fighting for, and if you give him the chance, that's exactly what he'll do for four more years.''
 By contrast, Mr. Kerry said he had a message for every ''middle-class American family that's struggling to build a better life for themselves and for their family: I've got your back. I've got your back because I know what you're going through.''
 A spokesman for Mr. Bush, Steve Schmidt, said Mr. Kerry had little credibility on taxes, energy or health care because ''his policies and plans are outside the mainstream,'' accusing the Democrat of supporting ''government-run health care'' and opposing the president's energy plan, and saying Mr. Kerry had consistently voted for tax increases and against tax cuts for individuals and small businesses.
 ''John Kerry has spent the past two years trying to talk down the American economy, which has produced 1.7 million new jobs in the last 12 months,'' Mr. Schmidt said.
 Mr. Kerry's campaign also released two new television commercials aimed at middle-class voters. One warns that ''the powerful and well-connected are getting what they want from George Bush and the Republicans in Congress: Drug companies get a $139 billion bailout, while drug prices skyrocket.'' In the other, Mr. Kerry promotes his ''specific plan to strengthen our economy and create jobs,'' saying he will help small businesses, cut taxes and lower health-care costs.
 Invigorated by strong reviews of his debate performance Thursday night, Mr. Kerry's aides were claiming that he had recaptured the momentum in the race after a moribund six weeks.
 Mr. Kerry's wildly cheering audiences on Friday in Tampa and Kissimmee, and in Orlando on Saturday, suggested that core Democratic voters, too, were energized by the debate.
 Ken Rutledge, a Teamsters organizer, said he had voted for Mr. Bush in 2000 but had decided to switch his vote to Mr. Kerry during Thursday's debate. ''He's coming along,'' said Mr. Rutledge, 39, after listening to the senator's speech. ''I think he's starting to appeal to more people.''
 Marie Bongarcon, 63, a Haitian-born custodian at the high school where Mr. Kerry spoke, had nearly exhausted herself leaping from her seat to applaud during his speech.
 ''I love Kerry,'' she said in heavily accented English. ''Everything he say is true.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry greeted the children of Leslie Adams, looking on from right, after a rally in Orlando, Fla. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); FAMILY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (60%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (54%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (54%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Debating

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%) David M Halbfinger; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



95 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Which Version Of Jobs Data Do You Want?

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
THE last big economic indicator of the election season -- the employment data -- is due on Friday. 
 The Wall Street forecast of 150,000 new payroll jobs for September is not as robust as the average monthly increase of 180,000 this year, but it is better than the average of about 104,000 over the last three months.
 If the 150,000 figure is correct, it will mean that 1.84 million new jobs have been created since September 2003. That is a number you will hear from President Bush. Senator John Kerry is likely to emphasize that 2.65 million jobs were lost from the end of 2000 to September 2003. Even with the surge since then, the net loss is 816,000. 
 Some economists argue that Mr. Bush is not to blame for all the lost jobs because the economy was slowing before he took office. Others say he can't be credited for all the job creation, considering how much the Federal Reserve stimulated growth.
 The argument becomes more complicated when you include the employment data from the current population survey, used to calculate the unemployment rate. It is based on 60,000 personal interviews. The payroll data is based on interviews with 160,000 employers and does not include agricultural workers or the self-employed.
 Economists follow this survey because it is broader and less volatile. But it's hard for them to figure what to make of the much different job picture that the current population survey is presenting. This survey shows that there has been no net job loss during Mr. Bush's term; in fact, it says, 2.05 million jobs have been created. 
 Perhaps the true picture is somewhere in the middle, but neither Mr. Bush nor Mr. Kerry is likely to talk about that.

OH, MERCK! -- The plunge in Merck's stock last week -- and the chance that the company's future earnings will be impaired -- could move it to a new Wall Street pigeonhole.
 Merck fell 27 percent on Thursday after announcing that it would stop selling its arthritis and pain medication Vioxx. Without a recovery in the stock, said Dennis Trittin, portfolio manager of United States stocks at the Russell Investment Group, Merck could move from a hybrid to a pure value stock.
 In analyzing a stock, Russell calculates how much of it fits into growth and value categories. Based on the annual reassessment in June, Merck was 57 percent value, 43 percent growth.
 Mr. Trittin said he could not say what will happen in next year's index recalculation. But after last week, he said, ''Merck might end up as a 100 percent value stock.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Darker Picture''Despite recent job additions, according to one version of the government's employment data, about 800,000 net jobs have been lost since President Bush took office.Graph tracks total nonfarm employment (monthly net change, seasonally adjusted) from 2001 through 2004.Job loss: 2.7 millionJob gain: 1.8 million -- Including Sept. 04 projection(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); DISMISSALS (73%); FARM LABOR (68%); ARTHRITIS (65%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (65%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (60%); AGRICULTURE (51%) Labor; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Jonathan Fuerbringer; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



96 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-26

Disputed Intelligence on Iraq
The Bush administration was made aware as early as 2001 that the aluminum tubes used as critical evidence against Iraq were most likely not for nuclear weapons, but White House officials continued to embrace the theory as they led the nation to war. 1

The Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr told Iraqi leaders that he intends to disband his militia and possibly field candidates for office, laying the groundwork to enter Iraq's nascent democratic process. 1

The guerrillas in Samarra seem to have melted away as troops continued to try to secure the city. 23

The Bush administration's new openness to having Secretary of State Colin L. Powell attend a conference on the future of Iraqalong with an envoy from Iran is spreading hope among international officials that such a meeting may reduce tensions. 12

46 Killed in Attacks in India
Militants set off bombs and opened fire across the country's northeast. 6

Lebanon Charges 35 Suspects
A military prosecutor charged 35 Arab men with plotting to bomb foreign targets in Lebanon, including two diplomatic missions, judicial officials said. Nine of the suspects are in police custody. 18

Angry Pakistani Shiite Reaction
Shiite Muslims in eastern Pakistan set vehicles and the mayor's office on fire after a funeral procession to bury victims of a suicide bomb attack that killed 30 people. 6

Turkey Wants Full Membership
Prime Minister Recip Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey said his nation would not accept any affiliation with the European Union that falls short of full membership. 12

NATIONAL 29-36

Focus on Domestic Policy
Senator John Kerry's aides are moving to shift the battle with President Bush to what they said was stronger ground -- domestic policy -- as the two men head into a second debate that is expected to focus on the economy and job creation. 1

Millions of viewers around the globe tuned into the first of the three presidential debates. 34

Second Eruption Imminent
Scientists monitoring Mount St. Helens, which erupted for the first time in 18 years on Friday, said they were expecting a more powerful explosion within a day or so. 29

Division in Episcopal Church
Some churches announced that they were leaving the Episcopal Church U.S.A. after its decision last year to permit the blessing of same-sex unions 29

Seeking to Control Congress
Congressional Republicans are poised to hold or to slightly expand their majorities in the House and the Senate this November. 31

OBITUARIES 46

NEW YORK/REGION 39-45

Culture Drawing Fewer Tourists
Tourists who visited New York for its cultural offerings decreased in 2003, but visitors spent more money during their stay, according to the city's tourism marketing group. 43

Chess 45
Weather 47
Cong. Vote 44

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); MAYORS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); TOURISM (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (60%); JOB CREATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); TURKEY (92%); LEBANON (92%); EUROPE (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



97 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; The Week Ahead; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 437 words

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:

DEBATE SHAKE-OUT -- Minutes after the debate ended, three separate instant polls -- commissioned by CBS, ABC and Gallup -- declared Senator John Kerry the ''winner,'' but history suggests that debates take days, and sometimes weeks, to shake out.
 ''It takes a while for the 'debate effect' to settle in,'' said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, director of the Annenberg Public Policy Center at the University of Pennsylvania, adding that it was several days before President Ford's infamous suggestion that Poland was not under Soviet control hurt him in the polls. ''The won/loss metaphor from sports does not do a good job of describing a 90-minute encounter between two people.'' 
 What then, is the task of the vice-presidential debater? Vice President Dick Cheney and Senator John Edwards will battle in Cleveland on Tuesday and Ms. Jamieson said that Mr. Cheney can do himself some good. 
 ''His job will be to demonstrate that the word Cheney does not equal Halliburton,'' she said. ''Debates can be a good place to dispatch caricature.'' Mr. Edwards -- a former trial lawyer -- may have his own dispatching to do.

DEMOCRACY'S PULSE -- America's democratic experiment in Afghanistan begins with elections on Saturday. There will be another vote worth watching that day: Prime Minister John Howard of Australia is standing for election in a contest that many see as a test of the Iraq war. Mr. Howard is running with a robust economy behind him, but his decision to send 2,000 troops to Iraq has drawn significant protests.

HOW THE WIND BLOWS -- Bob Dylan, who generally has let the songs speak for themselves, releases ''Chronicles: Volume 1,'' a personal history. ''I felt like a piece of meat that someone had thrown to the dogs,'' he writes in the book, available on Tuesday. As it turns out, being the voice of a generation has its down side.

MORE MOORE -- Michael Moore's ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' comes out in early release on DVD on Tuesday to the tune of 3.5 million copies, and two of his books -- ''The Official Fahrenheit 9/11 Reader'' and ''Will They Ever Trust Us Again?,'' a book of letters from American soldiers in Iraq -- will hit the racks on the same day.

MORE KUBRICK -- Turner Classic Movies on Thursday revisits ''Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb.'' The satire on warring intentions gone nuclear will be introduced by Mr. Edwards, vice-presidential candidate and, apparently, Kubrick fan.

MORE (STAR) BUCKS -- Oil is not the only fuel that is going up. On Wednesday, Starbucks will raise its prices 11 percent. Pretty soon, that afternoon latte might need to go on the Visa card.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 10, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A note in the Week Ahead column last Sunday about a rise in prices at Starbucks misstated the amount. Prices rose last week by 11 cents, not 11 percent. 

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); ARMED FORCES (63%); FILM (60%); LAWYERS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (90%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JOHN HOWARD (79%); DICK CHENEY (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); POLAND (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



98 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Bush Says Kerry's Remarks Show Weakness on Security

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: CUYAHOGA FALLS, Ohio, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
President Bush criticized Senator John Kerry on Saturday for suggesting that pre-emptive military action by the United States would have to pass a ''global test,'' saying that the ''Kerry doctrine'' would cede national security decisions to other countries.
 Scrambling to regain the offensive two days after what was widely viewed as a less-than-stellar performance in his first debate with his Democratic challenger, Mr. Bush sought to cast as a sign of weakness Mr. Kerry's comments Thursday night that the United States needed credible reasons for taking pre-emptive action to head off threats. 
 ''Senator Kerry's approach to foreign policy would give foreign governments veto power over our national security decisions,'' he said during an address in Columbus at the start of a day of campaigning through Ohio.
 ''I have a different view,'' Mr. Bush continued. ''When our country is in danger, the president's job is not to take an international poll. The president's job is to defend America. I'll continue to work every day with our friends and allies for the sake of freedom and peace. But our national security decisions will be made in the Oval Office, not in foreign capitals.''
 Mr. Kerry's campaign said the president was distorting what Mr. Kerry said during the debate. 
 ''After putting in such an arrogant performance, laden with scowls and smirks, George Bush is doing clean-up work and flailing out on the stump,'' said Phil Singer, a spokesman for Mr. Kerry. ''It is astounding that he is making things up when he should be detailing a plan to stabilize the situation in Iraq. It's not only un-presidential to lash out the way he is, it's desperate.''
 During the debate Thursday night in Coral Gables, Fla., Mr. Kerry said he would ''never give a veto to any country over our security,'' and he pledged to ''hunt down and kill the terrorists wherever they are.'' 
 But he repeatedly emphasized the need for the United States to forge and lead international alliances, and he suggested that in undertaking any pre-emptive action the nation had to be able to make a strong case to the world for why it was doing so.
 ''No president, through all of American history, has ever ceded, and nor would I, the right to pre-empt in any way necessary to protect the United States of America,'' Mr. Kerry said in response to a question from the moderator, Jim Lehrer of PBS. ''But if and when you do it, Jim, you've got to do it in a way that passes the test, that passes the global test where your countrymen, your people understand fully why you're doing what you're doing, and you can prove to the world that you did it for legitimate reasons.''
 But whatever the substantive case might be, Mr. Bush's campaign clearly saw the ''global test'' phrase as an opportunity not only to reinforce its portrayal of Mr. Kerry as wobbly on national security, but also to counter the story line Democrats were gleefully seizing on: that Mr. Kerry had bested Mr. Bush, broken the aura of inevitability about a Republican victory and re-energized the president's opponents.
 By Saturday afternoon, the Bush campaign had completed work on a new television commercial built around Mr. Kerry's words. ''A global test? So America will be forced to wait while threats gather?'' the narrator says in the commercial, which will begin running on Monday on cable networks and in some local markets.
 The Kerry campaign immediately began slapping together a commercial striking back on the topic. ''George Bush lost the debate,'' the script for the new Kerry commercial says. ''Now he's lying about it.''
 Speaking to reporters here at about the time Newsweek released a poll showing Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry running neck and neck, Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's senior adviser, said he expected the race to tighten in its closing weeks, but not because of the debate. He also said the attention to Mr. Bush's facial expressions during the encounter was not a distraction to the campaign.
 And he said Mr. Bush not only remained strong in the swing states that will decide the election, including Ohio, but was running strong in other Democratic-leaning states that would be a surprise to Mr. Kerry's team. He declined to name them.
 With the race becoming increasingly personal, Mr. Rove also criticized Mr. Kerry's portrayal of Mr. Bush on Friday as a stuttering Elmer Fudd as ''demeaning and petty and certainly unpresidential.''
 Mr. Bush hit Mr. Kerry on foreign policy even as he spent most of the day talking about economic issues. 
 While Mr. Kerry was in Florida saying that the president had misled the nation on economic issues as well as on Iraq, Mr. Bush said the economy was improving, pointing to the 1.7 million jobs that had been created in the last year and the drop in the unemployment rate to 5.4 percent from a peak of 6.3 percent in June 2003. He did not mention that the nation had 900,000 fewer nonfarm jobs than when he took office and that unemployment was still well above the 4.2 percent rate of January 2001.
 Speaking in a state hit hard by job loss and foreign competition, Mr. Bush said the solutions were business-friendly policies like less regulation, limits on lawsuits and an energy policy that ensured uninterrupted supplies and reasonable prices.
 Mr. Bush also dropped a hint that his call for an overhaul of the tax code, one of the main planks in his economic platform, might be more limited than many conservatives had in mind. Mr. Bush said he supported keeping the mortgage interest deduction, which would be eliminated under some proposals for a single-rate flat tax or a shift to a consumption tax. 
 ''I believe that the mortgage interest deduction enables more Americans to achieve the goal of home ownership,'' he told a meeting of the National Association of Home Builders in Columbus. ''It is an important part of our tax code.''
 But issues like the tax code that might otherwise be central to the campaign debate took a backseat again on Saturday to the debate over war and peace. Seeking to rebut Mr. Bush's characterization of Mr. Kerry's stance on pre-emptive war, Richard C. Holbrooke, a former ambassador to the United Nations who is a foreign policy adviser to Mr. Kerry, told reporters on a conference call that Mr. Bush's statements were a ''clear-cut misrepresentation.''
 ''Who in his right mind'' would not want the support of the American people and allies around the world for pre-emptive action, Mr. Holbrooke asked.
 Mr. Holbrooke characterized as ''appalling'' Mr. Bush's suggestion during the debate that by questioning the president's handling of the war Mr. Kerry was emboldening enemies and demoralizing American troops.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush greeted supporters yesterday at a ''Focus on Ownership'' campaign event in Mansfield, Ohio. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); VETO (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); TERRORISM (65%); HISTORY (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Debating; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



99 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: STRATEGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: Domestic Issues Pushed to Front Of Campaigns

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Todd S. Purdum and Robin Toner contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
With a barrage of new advertisements and speeches, Senator John Kerry's aides are moving to shift the battle with President Bush to what they said was stronger ground -- domestic policy -- as the two men head into a second debate that is expected to focus on the economy, job creation and health care.
 Mr. Bush's aides said they would continue to try to anchor the presidential campaign to foreign policy and national security, and the president on Saturday, campaigning in Ohio, escalated his attacks on what he said was Mr. Kerry's vacillating foreign policy. [Page 33.] 
 But the aides said they would gladly engage Mr. Kerry on domestic issues as well. The president's weekly radio address on Saturday was devoted to tax cuts, and Mr. Bush will fly to Iowa on Monday to sign into law the latest round of cuts. 
 Mr. Kerry's campaign upended its menu of television advertisements on Saturday, replacing spots attacking Mr. Bush on Iraq and national security with ones in which Mr. Kerry talks about health care and job creation, while attacking Mr. Bush as a tool of ''the powerful and well-connected.''
 And Mr. Kerry delivered a speech on domestic issues in Orlando on Saturday morning that aides said was intended to usher in this new phase of his campaign, denouncing Mr. Bush as ''the first president to lose jobs in our country in 72 years.'' 
 Mr. Kerry will hold a town meeting in Ohio on Sunday on the outsourcing of jobs and is planning speeches on health care early in the week.
 ''We know that there are a lot of people out there who are more worried about their jobs and paying their health care bills than worrying about what's going on the other side of the world,'' said Joe Lockhart, a senior Kerry adviser. ''This is not brain surgery.''
 After weeks of growing increasingly confident about victory, some Republicans said in interviews that they were concerned that Mr. Kerry's showing at the debate -- combined with images that have been repeatedly televised showing Mr. Bush frowning and fidgeting as his opponent criticized him -- might have tilted the landscape, and that Mr. Bush might once again have a fight on his hands.
 Even Republicans said Mr. Kerry had gained ground in Thursday's debate on foreign policy, though aides to both campaigns said it was unclear what long-term effect that would have. Mr. Bush's senior advisers argued that the debate would not be enough to overcome what they described as voter concerns about Mr. Kerry stirred by six months of Republican attacks, and said they were unconcerned about his effort to move the discussion to domestic issues.
 ''We think we are on firm ground on domestic policy and on foreign policy,'' said Mr. Bush's campaign manager, Ken Mehlman.
 Not by coincidence, this shift in emphasis by Mr. Kerry comes as he and Mr. Bush head for a second debate, on Friday in St. Louis, in which the candidates will be questioned by an audience of voters, and which is expected to include a heavy focus on domestic issues.
 That morning, the government will issue the last set of unemployment figures before the election. And on Tuesday in Cleveland, the two vice-presidential candidates will debate, and aides to Senator John Edwards, the Democrat, said he hoped to keep the focus on domestic issues in his only debate with Vice President Dick Cheney.
 This is hardly the first time that Mr. Kerry's advisers have sought to gain the advantage in what has been a long tug-of-war with the White House over whether the campaign should be fought over domestic issues or national security. Mr. Kerry's advisers acknowledged that he had been largely unsuccessful at this effort for much of the year, in no small part because of the spiral of violence in Baghdad.
 And some Democrats questioned whether it made sense for Mr. Kerry to try to turn the subject away from Iraq at a time that continuing violence there was raising doubts among some voters about Mr. Bush's credentials to manage foreign policy crises.
 But Mr. Kerry's aides and Congressional Democrats argued that Thursday's presidential debate -- confined to foreign policy issues at the insistence of Mr. Bush's aides -- gave Mr. Kerry credibility on this subject, allowing him to pivot to the critique of Mr. Bush on the home front that Mr. Kerry has long thought is his path to victory.
 Mr. Bush's senior aides said that no matter what Mr. Kerry did, the president would continue to challenge his foreign policy fortitude, seizing in particular on Mr. Kerry's suggestion in the debate that he might not engage in a pre-emptive war without putting it to a ''global test.''
 Mr. Bush's senior adviser, Karl Rove, described the remark as ''a blunder,'' adding, ''It was an insight into his foreign policy soul.''
 ''Look, does he want a continuing dialogue about these things?'' Mr. Rove continued. ''No. But we'll pin him down. We'll keep pounding him.''
 The positioning came as both sides sought to measure the lasting impact, if any, of a debate in which Mr. Kerry offered what even Republicans described as a crisp and articulate case against the president. With a handful of exceptions -- Mr. Rove being chief among them -- there appeared to be a consensus among both parties that Mr. Kerry's performance had at the least jimmied open a window that Democrats feared had been closing on his candidacy. 
 At the same time, a number of Republicans said that they were worried by what they called a lackluster debate performance by Mr. Bush, and television images of the president grimacing as his rival challenged his handling of the war in Iraq and threats of terrorism at home.
 ''I was yelling at the television set,'' said one Republican associate of Mr. Bush, who said he did not want to be identified, describing his distress with Mr. Bush's performance. An administration official, speaking anonymously because he also did not want to be identified as critical of Mr. Bush's debate performance, said he had been astounded to see Mr. Bush repeatedly display on television a disdainful look that was familiar to people who work with him in the White House, but which aides, in preparing him for the debates, warned against.
 And Paul M. Weyrich, the conservative organizer, wrote in his newsletter: ''I reluctantly agree with overnight polls that suggest that, by a plurality, voters believe that Senator John Kerry won his debate with President Bush Thursday night. Both candidates did well. But Senator Kerry got away with murder and that is why it is frustrating.''
 Aides to both campaigns said they were waiting over the weekend to see how the perception of the debate settled in with the public, as well as the first full-fledged opinion polls.
 A Newsweek magazine poll conducted after the debate showed Mr. Kerry in a statistical tie with Mr. Bush. Earlier Newsweek polls had shown Mr. Bush with a clear, if modest, edge.
 Instant polls done the evening of the debate, found that most viewers said Mr. Kerry had won, but Republicans were quick to note that there was no immediate sign that he had chipped into what most polls show as a lead by Mr. Bush.
 ''There are two clear story lines,'' said Bill McInturff, a Republican pollster. ''One is that that Kerry did very well in the debate. The more important story line is that it didn't affect anyone's opinion.''
 Mr. Rove said: ''It's like his convention speech. I remember all the hubbub about this being a terrific convention speech. And in the end, it did not serve him well.''
 But Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, said that Mr. Bush, as a result of the debate, was now vulnerable in a way he had not been before.
 ''This was going to be their knockout punch, their issue, the chance to make their strongest case with the people, and it didn't happen,'' Mr. Durbin said, adding: ''I think there will be a momentum shift now.''
 And even some Republicans said that Mr. Kerry had at the least ended any hope Mr. Bush had of a quick and easy victory.
 ''I don't think anything changed, but I think Kerry kept himself in the race,'' said Representative Peter T. King, a New York Republican, adding, ''I think the American people are making a distinction, and they accept that Kerry is more skillful on his feet, but they still trust the president more.'' 
 Gary Bauer, a conservative Republican who ran for president in 2000, said, ''I think Kerry did well enough to prevent the possibility of a meltdown, which I think he was facing.'' 
 Interviews with Democrats suggested that Mr. Kerry's supporters who had been dispirited by the continued reports of upheaval in the Kerry campaign were invigorated by their candidate's performance. 
 ''For the first time in concise terms he laid out a clear alternative path,'' Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, said.
 ''''Several Republicans said they had hoped that Mr. Bush, after having forced the first debate to be fought out on foreign policy, would have effectively squashed Mr. Kerry's challenge by now. Whether that goal was realistic or not, Republicans said there seemed little hope of that before the last debate is held in Arizona on Oct. 13.
 ''We had him down and we had our foot on his throat,'' Ron Kaufman, who served as political adviser to Mr. Bush's father, said of Mr. Kerry. ''He got up, but he's still wounded.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator John Kerry campaigned yesterday in Orlando, Fla., attending a rally at a high school. President Bush was in Ohio, where he saluted a veteran as he arrived for a rally in the Cuyahoga Falls Civic Center. (Photos by Left, Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times
 Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); OUTSOURCING (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); TAX LAW (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%) Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy; Labor; Medicine and Health; United States International Relations; United States Politics and Government; United States Armament and Defense; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%) Adam Nagourney; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



100 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Word for Word/Political Tongue; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Slang Only a Velcroid Would Love

BYLINE: By TOM KUNTZ

 BODY:
HEY all you twinkies and snollygosters, can the bafflegab, will ya? Say ''spin'' or ''bounce'' or ''expectations game'' one more time and we'll sic the barking heads on you, understand?
 Political discourse doesn't have to be a dronefest of rote catchphrases. No, it can be a dronefest of the has-beens, never-weres and almost-weres of American political slang! Those seriously concerned with the vitality of our wonky Beltway blather may want to skip the next agriculture-subsidy roundtable to train their bifocals on ''Hatchet Jobs and Hardball: The Oxford Dictionary of Political Slang,'' edited by Grant Barrett (Oxford, 2004). 
 There, with some imagination, you can freshen your lexicon with some forgotten or fairly obscure, but nevertheless serviceable, bits of political argot. Impress your fellow sheeple! TOM KUNTZ

Actorvist A politically involved actor. (Also, raptivist, the hip-hop version.)

Bafflegab Confusing or unintelligible speech, doublespeak.
''As the parade to the rostrum continued, the bafflegab glossary expanded: Narrowing Parameters, functions of situational variables, diagnostic-planning activity, ''
 The Wall Street Journal, March 14, 1967

Barking Head An aggressive or loud broadcast commentator.

Belligerati Any belligerent person or group; as a group, pro-war commentators.

Bogsat [Bunch of Guys Sitting Around a Table] Policy or decision making by a small group of associates.

Bomfog Platitudinous political rhetoric or obfuscation. (From ''brotherhood of man under the fatherhood of God,'' closing line of a radio speech by John D. Rockefeller Jr., on July 8, 1941; later used as a slogan by Nelson Rockefeller.)

Cave [Citizens Against Virtually Everything.] Persons who seem opposed to all real estate or commercial development or change. Hence Cave people, Cave dweller, Cavie.

Conchie A conscientious objector to military service. Also conshi, conshy.
 ''We're 'conshys' too -- but we don't work at it.'' Stars & Stripes, Aug. 30, 1918

Doubledome A scholar or intellectual, esp. a highly educated person who holds impractical or unrealistic views.
 ''Then the doubledomes in Washington set a deadline.'' ''Sayonara,'' James A. Michener

Drag Influence.
 ''What's your angle, Flynn? Where do you get your drag?'' ''The Mob,'' 1951 film

Flush-Bottom A wealthy contributor.

Globaloney An unrealistic foreign policy or global outlook.

Granfalloon Any large, amorphous organization without real identity. Coined by Kurt Vonnegut.
 ''Other examples of granfalloons are the Communist Party, the Daughters of the American Revolution, the General Electric Company, the International Order of Odd Fellows -- and any nation, anytime, anywhere.
 ''Cat's Cradle,'' Kurt Vonnegut

Johnny Congress The United States Congress.
 ''Johnny Congress has been busily engaged for some time past in raising the pay of Naval officers.'' Gettysburg Republican Compiler,
 Jan. 6, 1835

Minarchist An anarchist in favor of minimal government sufficient only to protect citizen rights and provide civil defense.
 ''The two main divisions within the modern libertarian movement are the anarchist libertarians, who believe in no government, and the 'monarchist' libertarians, who believe that a shred of government is tolerable.''
 The Los Angeles Times, Nov. 1, 1985

Mister Whiskers The United States government or one of its law-enforcement agencies.

Neverendum A series of referendums initiated until the desired outcome is achieved, (specif.) referendums on the status of Quebec.

Panda-hugger A specialist in American-Chinese relations said to be too accommodating to Chinese perspectives.

Politainer A politician who is an entertainer.
 ''Jesse Ventura and the Brave New World of Politainer Politics''
 The Star Tribune, Minneapolis, May 4, 2000

Red-Headed Eskimo A precisely targeted bill, law or piece of legislation.

Sheeple Submissive citizens.
 ''Mrs. Anderson begins every book sale with a lecture, and in this instance she derides taxpayers in general as submissive 'sheep people' -- or 'sheeple' for short.'' The Wall Street Journal,
 Feb. 27, 1984

Slacktivism Activism which requires little effort.

Snollygoster A shrewd, unprincipled person, esp. a politician.
 ''A Georgia editor kindly explains that 'a snollygoster is a fellow who wants office, regardless of party, platform or principles, and who, whenever he wins, gets there by the sheer force of monumental talknophical assumnacy.'''
 The Columbus Dispatch, Oct. 28, 1895

Turkey Farm A department or agency staffed with political and patronage hirees; (broadly) an underperforming office.

Twinkie Appealing but lacking substance.
 ''Democratic presidential hopeful Paul Tsongas told the nation's mayors on Monday that leaders of his own party are advocating 'Twinkie economics' by appealing to popular tastes without offering substance.''
 Associated Press, June 17, 1991

Vampire State A nation or state seen as consuming excessive resources or taxes, esp. if it delivers services poorly or suffers from chronically weak economic conditions. [Often a play on ''Empire State,'' a nickname for New York state.]

Velcroid A person who seeks the company of the powerful or famous in an attempt to borrow glory by proximity. Hence velcrosis.

Zoo Plane An airplane carrying journalists accompanying a traveling politician.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 1, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the ways in which presidential candidates deal publicly with illness referred incorrectly to the death of former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts, who had lymphoma cancer. He died on Jan. 18, 1997, two days short of what would have been the end of his first term had he been elected president in 1992 -- not one day short. (The error first appeared on Oct. 3, 2004, in an article about the health of Senator John Kerry.)

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Paul Sahre) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (60%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (60%); GEC (LSE) (60%); GE (SWX) (60%); GE (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (60%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004



101 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: With Few Protests, Main Action Is Inside for Monetary Fund

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
All weekend, drivers headed anywhere near the World Bank and International Monetary Fund headquarters found themselves caught behind newly erected concrete barricades. More than one shouted at the police, ''Where are the protesters?''
 There were none, except for the few people who gathered in such small vigils that they were easy to miss.
 The extraordinary security around the Pennsylvania Avenue corridor was all about terrorism and the orange alert that the two institutions have been under since August because of four-year-old computer records suggesting Al Qaeda might be singling them out. Their annual meetings are the last major events before the election, and the administration did not want to see a terrorist attack or, for that matter, protests, disrupt the proceedings of the institutions charged with keeping the world's financial system on course and helping poor countries catch up. 
 But, for once, the action was inside, where the world's financial leaders tackled the urgent issues of forgiving the debts of impoverished nations, managing the effects of rising oil prices on development and considering how to get rich countries as well as poor ones to address economic problems and make painful changes.
 Over all, there was a strong sense of historic transition.
 China was invited to dine with the Group of 7 major industrial nations, an event that was seen as the first step toward admission to that elite club of the world and a belated acknowledgment of China's huge role in the world economy.
 At the same time, the World Bank's larger-than-life leader, James D. Wolfensohn, was presiding over what could be his last annual meeting as the heart and soul of that organization. His term as president will end in May and it seems unlikely that he will be asked to stay, no matter who wins the November election.
 With his snowy shock of hair and his unrelenting pitch for more money to help the poor, Mr. Wolfensohn gave an impressive performance as a lion in winter. He sat alone at his news conferences -- no spokesmen or aides beside him -- and easily answered questions about Ghana's debt, the success of Turkey's economic changes and how to privatize a country's water system to lower the costs for the average citizen. 
 But the fact that the end of Mr. Wolfensohn's term is nearing was rarely mentioned.
 Most of the speakers turned their attention to the International Monetary Fund's new managing director: Rodrigo de Rato, a former finance minister of Spain who has already made an impressive debut with his straight talk. Possibly because he is first politician to lead the organization, Mr. de Rato stood out at his news conference for his use of the declarative sentence. When asked about a contentious plan to revalue gold and help the poor, he simply said yes, of course it could be done -- it had been done before.
 He also did not hesitate to bring the big rich countries to task as well as the poorer ones.
 Above all, he had a noticeable ability to see the bright side of financial life -- a quality not generally associated with the fund.
 He seemed to be following the adage that you catch more flies with honey than with vinegar. China was doing so well it could change its currency rate. Growth in the United States was good enough for it to begin the essential reduction of its deficit. The good news this year included developments in Japan, which now must speed up its banking changes.
 ''You must take into account that he was head of his party in opposition for almost 20 years,'' said Ernesto Ekaizer, assistant managing editor of El Pais in Madrid who was in Washington to cover the meeting. ''He is very, very relaxed in almost any situation.''
 Just days before the Madrid bombing last March, Mr. de Rato was passed over to lead his Popular Party in the elections. Rebuffed, he gave the green light for Spain to nominate him for the monetary fund job. His qualifications included an impressive reduction of Spain's deficit and a doctoral thesis that he wrote about that effort while he was a minister.
 In those days he was known simply as Mr. Rato, a good name for a politician. Now, as leader of the fund, he has become Mr. de Rato, using the aristocratic ''de'' of the family name that is actually de Rato Figaredo. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); TERRORISM (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); AL-QAEDA (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); TRENDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (63%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism; Economic Conditions and Trends; Computers and the Internet

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; International Monetary Fund; Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group); Group of Seven

PERSON: Elizabeth Becker; James D Wolfensohn; Rodrigo De Rato

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) GHANA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) China; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004



102 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: VOTERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: AS DEADLINES HIT, ROLLS OF VOTERS SHOW BIG SURGE

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE and FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
A record surge of potential new voters has swamped boards of election from Pennsylvania to Oregon, as the biggest of the crucial swing states reach registration deadlines today. Elections officials have had to add staff and equipment, push well beyond budgets and work around the clock to process the registrations.
 In Montgomery County, Pa., the elections staff has been working nights and weekends since the week before Labor Day to process the crush of registrations -- some 32,000 since May and counting. Today is the deadline for registering new voters in Pennsylvania, as well as Ohio, Michigan, Florida and 12 other states, and election workers will go on mandatory overtime to chip away at the thousands of forms that have been arriving daily. 
 To help in the effort, the Montgomery office has also added 12 computers, 15 phone lines and 12 workers from other departments -- as well as one of the technicians whose usual job is fixing voting machines at the warehouse. 
 Across the county line in Philadelphia, overtime and weekend duty began in July to deal with what is now the highest number of new voter registrations in 21 years. The office says it is still six days behind the flow, and the last two days have brought about 10,500 new registration forms. At 204,000, the number of new registrations has already surpassed that of the last big year, 1992, which had 193,000. 
 ''The vote was so close four years ago, people are now thinking, hey, maybe my vote does count,'' said Joseph R. Passarella, the director of voter services in Montgomery County. Al Gore won in Pennsylvania in 2000 by 204,840 votes.
 Officials across the country report similar patterns.
 ''Everything we're seeing is that there has been a tremendous increase in voter registration,'' said Kay Maxwell, president of the League of Women Voters. ''In the past, we've been enthused about what appeared to be a large number of new voters, but this does seem to be at an entirely different level.''
 Registration numbers are impossible to tally nationwide, and how many of the newly registered will vote is a matter of some debate. But it is clear the pace is particularly high in urban areas of swing states, where independent Democratic groups and community organizations have been running a huge voter registration campaign for just over a year.
 The parties have been registering voters as well, with Republicans especially active in critical states in an effort to counter the independent groups. 
 In Cleveland, the Cuyahoga County Board of Elections has spent $200,000 on temporary workers this year to deal with a wave of 230,000 new registrations, more than double the number in 2000. The number of registrations in Tallahassee, Fla., is up 20 percent since the presidential primary in March. And St. Louis is reporting the largest growth ever in potential new voters. 
 ''We are moving toward having the largest number of registered voters in the history of St. Louis County,'' said David Welch, one of the directors of elections.
 Las Vegas added 3,000 to 4,000 voters a week in 2000 but is doing triple that this year, forcing the office to hire 30 additional workers. The elections director said he was getting 3,000 new cards a day last week.
 Eight states reached registration deadlines over the weekend, and registration will end in 31 states by the end of the week. New Jersey's deadline is today, New York's Friday. The registration deadline in Connecticut is Oct. 19. Six states allow registration on Election Day.
 A coalition of nonpartisan groups called National Voice announced last week a push for an additional 200,000 registrations in the last days. Project Vote, the nonpartisan arm of the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, which claims more than a million registrations in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Washington and other states, planned to have its largest force of paid workers on the streets over the weekend registering people to vote.
 These nonpartisan community groups, as well as Democratic organizations like America Coming Together, have driven most of the increase, registration officials say. In Florida and Ohio, Republicans have mounted moderately successful campaigns that have increased registration in suburban communities. 
 But the huge gains have come in areas with minority and low-income populations. In some of those areas in Ohio, new registrations have quadrupled from 2000. President Bush won in Ohio in 2000 by 165,019 votes.
 It is harder to say what is driving the registration increase in Montgomery County, which is still considered ''a Republican town'' even though it went for Mr. Gore in 2000 and Bill Clinton before that. One of the wealthiest counties in Pennsylvania, it has had a lot of new building in recent years. But it also has working-class communities and is about 10 percent minority, and the community organizations say they have worked hard to register people here.
 Some people registering have lived here for years but have not voted.
 ''I've been too lazy,'' said Kurt Saukaitis, 43, who was registering at the county office. He and his new wife, Candy, both have 16-year-old sons. ''The thought of a draft is scary,'' Mr. Saukaitis said.
 He works at an aerospace factory that was bought recently by a company on the West Coast, creating economic anxiety among its workers. ''All that money spent on Iraq, then old people can't buy medicine,'' he said. ''Figure that out.''
 Bob Lee, the administrator for voter registrations in Philadelphia, said: ''I think voter registration would be high even if this weren't a battleground state. Just because people have a very high interest in this election.'' 
 The big unknown is whether the new registrations will result in higher turnout. Election officials say some of the big groups seem to be signing up anyone on the streets to reach quotas, with half-filled-out forms suggesting something less than true enthusiasm. 
 Nevertheless, registration officials are expecting frantic deadline days; offices in Philadelphia and Miami-Dade County, Fla., will stay open until midnight. Matt Damschroder, the elections director in Columbus, Ohio, will post workers on the street outside the building to take registrations.
 ''Almost to an April 15, I.R.S. post office type of operation,'' Mr. Damschroder said. ''We're expecting that it's going to be folks coming in by the truckload.'' He has had 12 people working around the clock in 12-hour shifts, six days a week, to keep up with the flow, but he is still two days behind. 
 Jacksonville, Fla., has hired 14 people since August, putting everyone on seven-day workweeks, 12 hours a day. Oregon's deadline is not until Oct. 12, but the state elections division has started sending registration cards to the counties daily instead of weekly to keep up with the pace of applicants. Marion County, which includes Salem, has tripled its staff, from 4 to 12. 
 In rural areas and in nonswing states, the picture is less extreme. The three employees in the elections office in Putnam County, Ohio, said they were handling new registrations with no problem. In largely uncontested South Carolina, Greenville County officials said the pace was about what it was in 2000, and in California, which has traditionally backed the Democratic candidate in presidential races, registrations in Los Angeles County were actually running below the level of four years ago. Yet in suburban Cook County, Illinois, outside Chicago, workers processed 46,000 registrations in September, the biggest monthly total since 1992. 
 Many elections offices said they had increased their overtime budgets in anticipation of a healthy increase in registration this year. But, as Michael Vu, the director in Cuyahoga County, said, ''I don't think 100,000 extra voters was in anyone's plan.''
 Registration campaigns are usually reserved for August and September of election years. This round, the wave started early, with independent groups organizing in crucial states like Ohio last year. During the spring and summer, partisan and nonpartisan groups sent out hundreds of paid workers, and many swing states showed unusually early swells in registration in March, April and May.
 There was some question whether the August and September peaks would be lower as a result, but elections officials in many places reported that their September numbers were higher than normal.
 Ms. Maxwell, of the League of Women Voters, noted that surges in registration have sometimes dissolved in disappointing turnout. But last year in the Philadelphia mayor's race, independent groups that registered thousands of new voters claimed their turnout was nearly as high as that in the rest of the electorate. Steve Rosenthal, the Democratic chief executive of America Coming Together, said 44 percent of the 85,000 voters his organization registered last year turned out, compared with 49 percent over all. 
 Republicans, who have also shown huge success with face-to-face turnout campaigns in recent elections, say their voters are more committed and will be easier to get to the polls than Democrats.
 Although many election officials reported backlogs, none said they would fail to get all the new voters on the rolls in time to vote on Nov. 2. But with so many new voters on the rolls, the election officials are starting to worry about what happens at the polls. Unfamiliarity with voting procedures, confusing ballots and faulty technology were largely to blame for Florida's election fiasco in 2000. 
 ''It's going to be insane,'' said Tim Dowling, who was opening registration forms in Philadelphia. He corrected himself: ''It's already insane. It's been nuts since June.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dyan Corsner, registrar for Montgomery County, in Norristown, Pa., with boxes of voter registration applications waiting to be scanned. (Photo by Ryan Donnell for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
With the help of temporary employees, the Clark County Election Department in Las Vegas processed about 30,000 registration forms last week. (Photo by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)
 A Montgomery County, Pa., worker sorts voter applications. Some 32,000 have come since May. (Photo by Ryan Donnell for The New York Times)(pg. A20)Chart: ''Registration Jump In One County''Cumulative number of new voter registrations in Clark County, Nev., from the beginning of the year to the end of September, in thousands.Graph tracks number of new voter registrations in Clark County, Nev., since Jan. 2004.(Source by Clark County Election Department)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTION AUTHORITIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (77%); BUDGETS (77%); OVERTIME (76%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); US LABOR DAY (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



103 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart in Mexico

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''No, the Conquistadors Are Not Back. It's Just Wal-Mart'' (Teotihuacan Journal, Sept. 28) describes the Wal-Mart-owned supermarket being built in San Juan de Teotihuacan, Mexico, on farmland that was supposedly protected as an archaeological site.
 I doubt that any public relations campaign, no matter how well orchestrated, will remedy the cultural and economic assault that Walt-Mart and its subsidiary are currently engaging in at Teotihuacan. 
 My concern about the Wal-Martization of the Mexican landscape is not purely ethnocentric or cultural. Studies have documented the ''Wal-Mart effect'' -- the depression of wages and the loss of jobs after the establishment of the retail store in a community. It is a violent economic act to compromise the local community's well-being. 
 No, the conquistadors have not returned themselves, but the mining of indigenous people's culture and labor continues.

Rubi Orozco
Oakland, Calif., Sept. 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); ARCHAEOLOGY (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (68%); LAYOFFS (67%); RETAILERS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (56%); HISTORIC SITES (56%) Archaeology and Anthropology; Economic Conditions and Trends; Food; Supermarkets

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (93%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (93%)

PERSON: Rubi Orozco

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Mexico; San Juan De Teothihuacan (Mex)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004



104 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: The Balance Sheet on Outsourcing

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 What Daniel W. Drezner does not address is the stifling effect of outsourcing on the salaries of those ''lucky'' employees whose jobs were not outsourced. 
 My company, a semiconductor supplier, has opened a design center in India. While neither my colleagues nor I have yet lost our jobs to the center's employees, this has had a chilling effect on our salaries, which have been frozen for the last four years.
 We have little leverage in asking for a raise when our overseas colleagues' salaries are a fourth of ours. Meanwhile, the value of our salaries is steadily declining because of inflation.

Roy Moss
Palo Alto, Calif., Sept. 29, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Labor; Foreign Labor; Wages and Salaries

PERSON: Roy Moss; Daniel W Drezner

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) INDIA (70%); UNITED STATES (50%) India

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004



105 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: The Balance Sheet on Outsourcing

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Daniel W. Drezner makes a valid point about American outsourcing not contributing to a great number of job losses, but he doesn't discuss its effect on the American labor force. 
 To understand that effect, look at the nature of the newly created jobs in the United States. The wages of new jobs tend to be lower, and the jobs tend to come without benefits. 
 The weakening effect on unions is also notable, with a substantial decline in union numbers in the United States over the last several decades -- a feat accomplished only under threat in a volatile labor market. 
 The United States now has the dubious distinction of having the highest percentage of low-wage jobs in the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development. This is the true legacy of the globalization of American corporate labor policy.

Jason Mutch
Ottawa, Sept. 29, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); JOB CREATION (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Fringe Benefits

PERSON: Jason Mutch; Daniel W Drezner

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004



106 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: So, Where's the Fire?

 BODY:
It should come as no surprise that in a recent Harris poll, Americans indicated that they hold firefighters in high esteem -- the job ranks in prestige just behind scientists and doctors. That's especially true in New York, where three years after the terrorist attack that killed nearly 350 firefighters, the near-superhero status of these public servants hasn't much waned. It has also made them irresistible to anyone needing some reflected glory. Firefighters are being used to sell everything from movies to presidential candidates, and in Manhattan, even a football stadium. It's time to wonder whether New York's Bravest are overexposed and overexploited. 
 Politicians will go the extra mile to rub elbows with them. President Bush went to Queens to get the endorsement of the city's rank-and-file union leadership before he appeared at the G.O.P. convention. Senator John Kerry, who has won the endorsement of the fire officers' union, sounded a siren for them during the debate last week, when he decried that firehouses were being opened in Baghdad while they were being closed in New York. It hardly mattered that more firehouses aren't needed in New York. It's the symbol that counts. The battle over a new Jets stadium has dragged firefighters in on both sides. One TV ad criticizes the city and state -- which together will contribute $600 million to build the site -- for trying to give away money that could be used to support firefighters. Another ad features a superfan who happens to be a Bronx fireman, who argues that the stadium would create jobs. 
 New Yorkers don't admire their firefighters for their political savvy or keen judgments on economic development. We look to them for one thing, to be there when they're needed for real emergencies. And that doesn't include being pitchmen for the latest product in need of a hero. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); POLITICS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (65%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%) Fires and Firefighters; Editorials; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (54%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (54%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004



107 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: An Invigorated Kerry Courts Ohio, and Some Swing Voters Are Taking a Harder Look

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: AUSTINTOWN, Ohio, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
Elvis Presley's ''A Little Less Conversation'' was pumping through the loudspeakers, aptly enough after a 75-minute political forum. And the candidate consigned to the empathetic Bill Clinton's shadow, having spent the better part of that time sharing the pain of 500 members of what he calls the squeezed middle class, was bathing in their embrace.
 Off to the side of a high school gym, Katy Curtis, 39, was wiping her eyes.
 ''He's not Clinton, but he's close,'' Ms. Curtis said. ''I didn't see that till today.'' She had watched intently on Sunday afternoon as Senator John Kerry listened to a newly divorced steelworker, locked out of his factory job for 11 months, haltingly describe how his daughter had told him not to worry -- that her mother and grandmother had ''taken care of'' her first homecoming dress. 
 ''I went to pieces,'' said Ms. Curtis, a swing voter who said that she supported President Bush after the Republican convention but switched to Mr. Kerry after seeing him up close.
 Mr. Kerry's compassion for the man on stage, Ms. Curtis said, and his plans to reverse job losses and soaring health care and tuition costs, made her feel that he could address her own worries -- a wellspring of emotion arising from her and her husband's inability to help their daughter pay for college, and their flirtation with bankruptcy.
 If Ms. Curtis and a few other previously undecided Ohioans who came to Mr. Kerry's town-hall meeting here and some new polls are any indication, swing voters are giving Mr. Kerry a second look after his strong showing in the first presidential debate. And they are liking what they see. 
 ''The compassionate conservative thing -- that's what I picked up from him,'' said Debbie Donatelli, 51, a secretary who voted for Mr. Bush in 2000 but said that she would vote for Mr. Kerry after hearing him on Sunday. ''I know he comes from a privileged background, but he's more in touch.''
 Ms. Curtis said she and her 19-year-old daughter had swung toward Mr. Bush in August, because ''he seemed to really know what he was talking about'' at his convention.
 ''Then we watched the debate,'' she said, and decided to show up when Mr. Kerry visited this heavily Democratic community near Youngstown. 
 ''I just think he's got the pulse of the middle class,'' Ms. Curtis said afterward. ''He needs to do this in so many places in the next 30 days. He's got to get out there and let them know that he's supporting us.''
 Mr. Kerry is telling people so at every stop. ''I've got your back,'' he promised again here, connecting to voters in one of the only ways he knows -- as a foxhole buddy.
 He reeled off the ways he is trying to extend Mr. Clinton's legacy: with promises of balanced budgets and fiscal discipline, of help for people ''who are playing by the rules,'' and with an attack on his opponent reminiscent of Mr. Clinton's on the elder George Bush, saying that he is out of touch with Americans' economic hardships.
 Mr. Bush ''has been here many times,'' Mr. Kerry said of the current president, who had rallied near Akron on Saturday. ''I think he was here yesterday. But the question is, does he really see and know what is going on in the lives of middle-class Americans, people struggling to get in the middle class, people who are fighting for survival?'' 
 Mr. Kerry had just talked with locked-out workers on a Niles, Ohio, picket line who were holding out for 20 cents more an hour, he said, even as health care, gas, college tuition, and prescription drug prices were rising. ''Everything's going up in America except the wages of Americans under this administration,'' he said. 
 Since the debate, Mr. Kerry's aides have regained the spring in their step that they -- those who were on the campaign then, at least -- suddenly found back in early January, as he surged in the polls in Iowa. And his long question-and-answer session here -- one of three tune-ups Mr. Kerry is holding this week for Friday's town-hall-style debate with Mr. Bush -- was reminiscent of those marathon Iowa forums where he seemed to win over Democrats simply by listening carefully and sketching out his ideas specifically. 
 In the course of 15 questions Mr. Kerry settled a few points: there will be no military draft if he is elected unless the nation's survival is at stake; he hopes Osama bin Laden is caught in ''10 minutes, 5 minutes,'' never mind the political fallout; and while he is a hunter and a sportsman, he does not hunt deer with an AK-47 and thinks the president and Congress ''played a cute game'' in letting the assault weapons ban expire.
 ''Are you safer?'' he asked.
 He also had a little fun at Mr. Bush's expense, saying: ''I welcome hard work. I like hard work.'' And when another steelworker asked Mr. Kerry about trade, he scolded Mr. Bush, saying the president imposed a three-year temporary tariff on steel imports but then ''pulled the rug out from under that halfway through.''
 ''I don't know, but I think, that if you're against tariffs, and then you put tariffs in place, and then you take them off, that's just a flip, flop, flip,'' Mr. Kerry said, as his audience laughed along.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry offered doughnuts to picketing workers yesterday during an unscheduled stop at the RMI Titanium plant in Niles, Ohio. Mr. Kerry hopes to win the state, which President Bush won in 2000. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); TUITION FEES (71%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (70%) David M Halbfinger; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Ohio

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004



108 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: STRATEGIES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: In Battle for No. 2 Spot, Focus Remains at the Top

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
It is a compelling matchup: Vice President Dick Cheney, the somber voice of experience, versus Senator John Edwards, the newcomer with the dazzling smile. The former chief executive of Halliburton versus the populist trial lawyer. No hair versus good hair.
 But then, it isn't really about them.
 When Mr. Cheney meets Mr. Edwards at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland on Tuesday night, they will seek to use their lone debate to focus attention on the men at the top of their respective tickets. 
 The goal for Mr. Cheney, his aides and advisers say, is to portray President Bush as a steadfast, principled leader, and Senator John Kerry, his Democratic opponent, as a wavering, pandering liberal. The task for Mr. Edwards, his team says, is to argue that Mr. Bush has failed to make the nation safer and to hit him hard on the less than robust economy, softening him for the battering aides say Mr. Kerry will deliver on domestic issues in the debates to come.
 ''The most fundamentally important fact about vice-presidential debates is that they are conducted in the third person,'' said Jonathan Sallet, who was Senator Joseph I. Lieberman's debate manager in his encounter with Mr. Cheney four years ago. 
 Still, with Mr. Bush widely viewed as having lost his first debate with Mr. Kerry Thursday night, and with polls suggesting that the race may have tightened again, the spotlight will shine that much more brightly on Mr. Cheney, who won the coin toss and will field the first question, and Mr. Edwards, who will deliver the first closing statement.
 With the stakes so high, Mr. Cheney is spending a long weekend preparing at his home in Jackson, Wyo., where aides have assembled a mock-up of the debate setting. Mr. Cheney has been practicing with Representative Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, playing the part of Mr. Edwards. 
 Mr. Cheney, accompanied by Mary Matalin, his longtime communications aide, and top Bush advisers like Matthew Dowd, the campaign's chief strategist, has been mixing formal and informal prep sessions. Aides say he plans to relax on Monday by doing some fly fishing before heading to Ohio on Tuesday.
 Mr. Edwards, who faces the first one-on-one televised debate of his career, is at a resort in Chautauqua, N.Y., with his family and staff. He has been facing off against Robert Barnett, a prominent Washington lawyer who has been playing the part of Mr. Cheney. Like the successful courtroom lawyer that he was, Mr. Edwards is spending lots of time boning up on his case by reading about policy, consulting an array of advisers and researchers and reviewing Mr. Cheney's record and past statements on foreign and domestic affairs.
 To clear his head, his campaign manager, Peter Scher, said, he has been taking his ritual runs of four to six miles each day.
 Strategists on both sides say the format -- both men seated at a table with the moderator, Gwen Ifill of PBS -- plays to Mr. Cheney's strengths. When Mr. Lieberman's team studied Mr. Cheney before their debate in 2000, they concluded that Mr. Cheney, never an exuberant presence, was not a great communicator from behind a lectern in front of a big audience, but was very strong in more conversational settings like Sunday morning news programs, where he came across as strong and focused. 
 Mr. Edwards's advisers said that he had chafed at the format, preferring a more open setting that would allow him to use his stage skills to his advantage, but that the campaign relented because it believed fighting that point might have damaged negotiations to get Mr. Kerry three debates with President Bush instead of two.
 Still, Mr. Cheney's aides say they expect Mr. Edwards to come at him aggressively, seeking to get under his skin the same way Mr. Kerry did with Mr. Bush.
 In that sense, Mr. Edwards's performance is shaping up to be a sharp contrast to that of Mr. Lieberman, who four years ago struck a gentlemanly tone -- in part, Democrats said, because Al Gore was concerned at the time that he had come off as too aggressive against Mr. Bush in their first debate.
 ''Edwards can come in knowing that Cheney can't afford to act in a way that would contribute to a belief that the Republican ticket is a bunch of angry guys,'' Mr. Sallet said.
 Members of both the Bush and Kerry camps said that after Mr. Bush's performance on Thursday, Mr. Cheney would have to be especially careful not to rise to the bait.
 ''John Edwards earned more than $40 million arguing before juries, and we fully expect him to appeal to the emotions of the audience,'' said one aide to Mr. Cheney, who asked not to be identified because the campaign discourages discussions about strategy. ''But the vice president's a very steady individual. There's no need to coach Dick Cheney on how to keep his cool.''
 Political analysts believe that among the biggest hurdles for Mr. Edwards, 51, is ensuring that Mr. Cheney, 63, who has served Republican administrations going back to the Nixon era, does not succeed in making an issue of his limited experience in government. Mr. Edwards has not yet completed a full term in the Senate.
 ''His first challenge will be to look like he is a potential president,'' said Merle Black, a political science professor at Emory University in Atlanta. ''He has never been in charge of anything. He can't call on long experience to really talk about policy.''
 But Professor Black said he thought Mr. Edwards's facility with language, honed from years of arguing cases, could be his biggest asset.
 ''He can make the Kerry case better than Kerry,'' he said.
 An adviser to Mr. Cheney said the vice president would not even be particularly focused on Mr. Edwards. His attention, the adviser said, will be on pressing the case that Mr. Bush had trouble getting across on Thursday: that after the Sept. 11 attacks, the United States cannot afford to be less than aggressive and unwavering, and that Mr. Kerry is neither.
 ''Edwards is completely irrelevant in every way,'' the adviser said. ''Cheney will bring 9/11 back into the discussion in a very significant way, which was something that somehow seemed left out of the discussion on Thursday night. He's got to draw the contrast back with Kerry and point out that the Kerry foreign policy is much closer to the Jimmy Carter foreign policy.''
 In political terms, this adviser said, Mr. Cheney has two particular goals. One is to keep Mr. Kerry from consolidating any gains he might have gotten from the first debate among those female voters who are especially concerned about security from terrorist attacks. The other is to soothe the nerves of the conservative ''chattering class,'' which was left unsettled by Mr. Bush's performance on Thursday.
 The best opening for Mr. Edwards, several Democrats say, is to portray Mr. Cheney as the stubborn soul of the Bush administration, still unwilling to concede that Saddam Hussein had no close ties to Al Qaeda, still unable to explain why American forces in Iraq were not greeted as liberators, still insistent that progress is being made there.
 ''If John Edwards has an opportunity to show the American people that Dick Cheney has stuck stubbornly to this belief in contravention of the facts, that's very important,'' Mr. Sallet said.
 The 90-minute debate will cover both foreign and domestic affairs. So Mr. Edwards's camp sees it not only as a way to press Mr. Cheney on his connections to Halliburton, the energy company he once ran, and the planning for the Iraq war -- Mr. Edwards has regularly suggested on the campaign trail that Halliburton has benefited from the war -- but also as a chance to hammer him on the economy.
 ''He is going to have to explain why his policies have led to such terrible economic conditions for middle-class Americans,'' said Mr. Scher, Mr. Edwards's campaign manager.
 Mr. Edwards has tried out other possible lines of attack on the campaign trail, including an accusation that Mr. Cheney failed to heed his own warnings after the first Persian Gulf war about the difficulties of occupying Iraq. Mr. Edwards has pointed to a speech Mr. Cheney gave in Seattle in 1992 in which he cautioned about getting ''bogged down'' in Iraq.
 But the debate could challenge Mr. Edwards in a number of ways.
 He is at his best on the campaign trail in town-hall-style settings, feeding off the energy of the crowd and not wavering too far from a standard stump speech simplifying complex subjects into homespun platitudes. At times, when delivering new material, he can stumble over his words.
 As a lawyer he earned a reputation for boiling down the intricacies of botched medical procedures and malfunctioning machinery into simple emotional appeals that won him and his clients millions of dollars in jury verdicts.
 Mr. Edwards has brought that same approach to the campaign trail, sometimes delivering the campaign message more succinctly than Mr. Kerry, and campaign officials predict that his taut, passionate delivery will score points with viewers as well.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Vice President Dick Cheney will ''keep his cool'' in tomorrow's vice-presidential debate, an aide said. (Photo by Ed Andrieski/Associated Press)
 Senator John Edwards's first challenge, one analyst said, will be to look like ''a potential president.'' (Photo by Tina Fineberg/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LAWYERS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); SPORT FISHING (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); Debating; Election Issues

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (93%); DICK CHENEY (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); ROB PORTMAN (58%) Richard W Stevenson; Randal C Archibold; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; John (Sen) Edwards; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (72%) OHIO, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004



109 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Endowment Doubles For Brooklyn Academy

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
As the Brooklyn Academy of Music prepares to unveil its $8.6 million exterior restoration, academy officials say the long-struggling institution's turnaround has been strengthened by two major gifts totaling $30 million, more than doubling its endowment. 
 With its fatter pocketbook and face-lift, the 143-year-old academy is poised to become ''the quintessential urban arts center of the 21st century -- with music, dance, theater, opera, film and a large education program,'' Karen Brooks Hopkins, president of the institution, said recently. 
 A $20 million pledge from the Peter Jay Sharp Foundation, which supports education and cultural endeavors; a $10 million gift from two supporters, Richard B. Fisher and Jeanne Donovan Fisher; and other contributions have increased the endowment to more than $50 million from about $18 million, said Ms. Hopkins and the academy's executive producer, Joseph V. Melillo. 
 The pledges and contributions do not mean that the institution can cut back on fund-raising in an era of general economic uncertainty and dwindling foundation, government and corporate support for the arts, Ms. Hopkins said. The Sharp Foundation money, for instance, will be delivered over five years. 
 And while the Brooklyn Academy's comeback has been widely lauded in recent years, Ms. Hopkins said that its place in New York culture would depend on factors beyond money and edgy programming, factors like the fortunes of Brooklyn.
 Academy officials are betting that a revived Brooklyn reflects the institution's future. They are in preliminary negotiations to buy the Salvation Army building on Ashland Place, which is next to the academy. The building would be used for education and community purposes, and include classrooms, small theaters and meetings spaces, Ms. Hopkins said.
 Now, the endowment money buys some breathing space for long-range planning amid the hectic pace of fund-raising, Ms. Hopkins said. For years, the academy was so busy surviving, she said, that it was not until 1992 that it had an endowment.
 Endowments are ''increasingly critical to the survival'' of nonprofit institutions during tough times, Kate D. Levin, the New York City cultural affairs commissioner, said.
 ''Endowments don't mean much to the average Joe but it definitely is a kind of institutional solidification,'' Ms. Levin said. ''What it means long-term is enormous. It's got to make funders more confident.'' 
 Some of the premier arts organizations have huge endowments. The Metropolitan Museum of Art, for instance, has an endowment of well over a billion dollars. Carnegie Hall's endowment is $150 million, with $51 million more in uncollected pledges and gifts.
 Given institutions' different missions and operating costs, comparisons are wasted motion, but a healthy endowment signals a certain stability and a financial cushion, Ms. Levin said. 
 For the Brooklyn Academy, the endowment news rides the wave of a renaissance in housing and the arts in Brooklyn. The academy has recorded a 40 percent uptick in attendance from five years ago. Its audiences are younger than those that flock to institutions like the New York City Opera, and 65 percent come from Brooklyn, compared with the predominantly Manhattan audiences of the past.
 The academy began its first season in 1861 in a Brooklyn Heights building, which burned down in 1903. It opened its Beaux-Arts building at 30 Lafayette Avenue in Fort Greene in 1908 and for years has been a microcosm of a changing Brooklyn.
 Things were so bad in the 1960's that there was talk of turning the building into tennis courts, and by the 80's crack had moved into the neighborhood. The academy has since distinguished itself as the home of the Next Wave Festival of contemporary performing arts and, in an area with one of the largest black populations in the country, for culturally diverse programming and audiences.
 For instance, the 22nd season of the Next Wave Festival, which begins today, features ''Othello'' from the London-based Cheek by Jowl theater company; the Polish director Krzysztof Warlikowski's American debut with ''The Dybbuk,'' taken from Jewish folklore; and an all African-American cast in Flaubert's ''The Temptation of St. Anthony,'' with music and libretto by Bernice Johnson Reagon of the a cappella group Sweet Honey in the Rock. 
 Also on the calendar will be the Oct. 24 celebration of the restoration of the academy's building. The name ''Peter Jay Sharp,'' carved on either side of the building, will be unveiled.
 ''They're an institution for the future of New York,'' Norman L. Peck, president of the Sharp Foundation, said of the decision to contribute to the academy. 
 ''Having a strong, solid BAM out there is not only good for Brooklyn and Fort Greene but all of New York,'' Mr. Peck said, because of the city's shifting demographics. 
 The foundation commissioned a study to understand how the academy drew young audiences, with an average age in the mid-30's compared with the upper 50's at institutions like Lincoln Center and City Opera, he said.
 ''It's a combination of programs that attracted a youthful audience, but the youthful audience was coming to Brooklyn anyway to live,'' he said. ''They couldn't afford to live in Manhattan.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Brooklyn Academy of Music has received gifts totaling $30 million.
 The building's restoration will be unveiled in an Oct. 24 ceremony. (Photographs by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (90%); MAJOR GIFTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); FILM (76%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (64%) Culture; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Philanthropy

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Sharp, Peter Jay, Foundation; Brooklyn Academy of Music

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Richard B Fisher; Jeanne Donovan Fisher; Karen Brooks Hopkins; Felicia R Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



110 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

PeopleSoft Director Cites Reasons for Chief's Firing
A director of PeopleSoft said that Craig A. Conway, the company's chief executive, was fired on Friday in part because he made false statements at an analysts' conference in Sept. 2003.
 Mr. Conway had told analysts then that PeopleSoft had not been hurt by a takeover bid made in June 2003 by the Oracle Corporation, its rival in the market for specialized business software. [C4.]

US Airways Announces Cuts
US Airways said it was cutting 10 percent of its top salaried and management jobs, and cutting pay and benefits for its white-collar workers, to save $45 million a year. [C2.]

Removal of Vioxx Could Spur Suits
Merck's decision to halt sales of Vioxx, its blockbuster painkiller, could lead to an onslaught of new lawsuits against the company. Hundreds and perhaps thousands of new Vioxx lawsuits are likely to be filed, lawyers said, with many of them class actions that aim to represent large groups who have taken the drug for extended periods. [C2.]

Pension Plan Failures Hit Home
The pension plans of more than 500,000 Americans have failed in the last three years and have been taken over by the federal government. That has led to financial uncertainties even for high earners with six-figure incomes who retired early. [A1.]

Card Companies Ready to Form Ties
American Express and Discover Financial Services said they would move to sign partnerships with banks after the Supreme Court let stand a ruling that Visa and MasterCard violated federal antitrust law barring member banks from issuing rival cards. [C2.]

U.S. Begins Antipiracy Effort
The Bush administration unveiled an initiative intended to combat piracy of intellectual property and the sale of counterfeit goods by foreign companies. [C12.]

Factory Orders Fell in August
United States factory orders fell in August on lower demand for aircraft. But bookings rose for a range of consumer products. [C3.]

Office Depot Chief Leaves
Office Depot's chairman and chief executive, Bruce Nelson, has left amid sluggish sales. A director, Neil R. Austrian, was named interim chief executive. [C5.]

Stocks Gain as Oil Price Drops
Stocks rose, supported by a dip in crude oil prices. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 23.89 points, to 10,216.54. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 3.67 points, at 1,135.17, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 10.20 points, to 1,952.40. [C13.]

Rocket Ship Wins $10 Million Prize
A private rocket ship shot into space and won a $10 million aviation prize. SpaceShipOne, designed by Burt Rutan and financed by the billionaire Paul G. Allen, reached a record altitude of 368,000 feet, or 69.7 miles. [A1.]

Offer for British Soccer Team
The British soccer club Manchester United said it had received a preliminary takeover offer, which one person close to the talks said was from the owner of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Malcolm Glazer. The team is considered an attractive target. Its millions of fans worldwide are eager to buy team merchandise and use Manchester United-branded products, like credit cards. [World Business, Section W.]

Nickelodeon Hotel to Open in Florida
Nickelodeon has begun promoting a Holiday Inn Family Suites Resort in Lake Buena Vista, Fla., that will reopen this spring under the Nickelodeon name. Advertising. [C3.]

When Cellphones Fly
The airplane and the personal cellphone are about to link up. Some think that's good news; others do not. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C7.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,216.54 up 23.89Nasdaq composite -- 1,952.40 up 10.2010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.17% down 0.02The euro -- $1.2287 down 0.0120The dollar -- 110.87 yen up 0.47Graph tracks share prices of Merck for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); FACTORY ORDERS (86%); SOCCER (82%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); EARLY RETIREMENT (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (74%); CLASS ACTIONS (74%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (74%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); LAWYERS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (68%); MARITIME PIRACY (68%); AIRCRAFT MFG (67%); COUNTERFEITING (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (56%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (86%); VISA INC (82%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); DISCOVER FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (54%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); OFFICE DEPOT INC (52%); MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (50%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (86%); V (NYSE) (82%); LCC (NYSE) (57%); DFS (NYSE) (54%); AXP (NYSE) (54%); ODP (NYSE) (52%); MANU (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (86%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (86%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (86%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (86%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (86%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (86%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); NAICS453210 OFFICE SUPPLIES & STATIONERY STORES (52%); SIC5943 STATIONERY STORES (52%); SIC5112 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES (52%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (50%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (50%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



111 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Slow Learner on Energy-Efficiency Front; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: While U.S. Backslides, France Offers Lessons in Cutting Oil Use

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
The United States, land of gas-guzzling S.U.V.'s and air-conditioned McMansions, might do well to turn to the country some Americans love to hate for lessons on how to curb its reliance on imported oil: France. 
 Now that oil has reached roughly $50 a barrel and the world is coming to expect relatively high oil prices to last a long time, experts say that a rethinking of America's wasteful ways is once again an urgent undertaking.
 And like it or not, France -- whose perceived diplomatic obstructionism in the run-up to the Iraq war provoked a boycott of French products by some Americans -- has displayed a quality ripe for export: an impressive tenacity in waging what the French call the war on gaspi, short for gaspillage, or waste. It has also done so in a way that the United States has not been able to: over the long term. 
 Spurred by the oil shocks of the 1970's, France embarked on a vast state-led drive to flush out as much oil from its economy as possible. With the national slogan at the time, ''We don't have oil, but we have ideas,'' it accelerated the shift of electricity production from oil-fired power plants to nuclear reactors, increased taxes on gasoline to the equivalent of $3.75 a gallon, encouraged the sale of diesel-powered cars and gave tax breaks to energy-hungry industries like aluminum, cement and paper to shift from oil to other fuels.
 It worked. In contrast to the United States, where oil consumption initially fell but then ended up rising by a total of 16 percent from 1973 to 2003, in France, despite some increase in recent years, oil use is still 10 percent lower today than it was three decades ago, according to the United States Energy Information Administration. (Germany also matched France's record.)
 ''Americans have completely abandoned their efforts at energy conservation over the past decade and have been incredibly care-free about oil consumption because they believed they would get access to cheap energy -- through force if necessary,'' said Pierre Terzian, an energy specialist who runs the Paris-based consulting firm PetroStrategies. 
 The contrast between French resolve and American abandon in recent years is sharp. The United States, too, took the high road in the 1970's and early 80's, when the combined impact of the 1973 oil embargo, the growing power of OPEC and the Iranian revolution of 1979 created long gas lines and raised the prospect of an oil producers' stranglehold over the American economy. 
 The price of Arabian light crude rose from $1.85 a barrel in 1972 to $40 in 1981, or $80 in today's dollars. 
 Americans responded with a nationwide speed limit of 55 miles an hour, a home-insulating boom and a blossoming of energy-technology start-ups to help businesses cut their energy bills. Vast improvements came in home appliances: refrigerators, for example, now consume a third of the energy needed 30 years ago.
 But slowly, the nation resumed old habits. By the late 1980's, with the economy booming and oil prices below $20 a barrel, gas guzzlers were back, cars raced along highways at 75 m.p.h. with impunity and new vehicles' average mileage per gallon, which had almost doubled to 27.5 in 1987 from 14 in 1972, slipped back to 24, compared with Europe's 36.
 In the 1990's, the United States, which represents roughly 24 percent of world economic output and an even lower share of industrial production, nonetheless accounted for a third of the growth in demand for global oil. 
 A big reason for the policy divide, said Amy Jaffe, the associate director of Rice University's energy program, is a cultural contrast of two sharply opposed ways of looking at the world.
 ''In the United States, we try to control things over which we have no control, like Russia or Saudi Arabia, instead of looking at what we could do inside,'' Mrs. Jaffe said. ''We're like drug addicts. We're looking around for another dealer instead of going to detox.''
 For now, the presidential candidates are preaching familiar themes in their campaigning, with President Bush calling for more exploration and increased domestic production and Senator John Kerry promoting alternative energies.
 But with oil now at $50 a barrel, double what it was two years ago, and with many analysts expecting substantially higher energy prices in the next decade than during the 1990's, some experts are saying that both government and industry are going to need to do some fundamental rethinking of some basic policies. 
 ''The lack of emphasis on demand in the past 20 years in the United States has a lot to do with the predicament we're in now,'' said Ashok Gupta, an economist with the National Resources Defense Council. ''We need to look at what it will take to get manufacturers to offer technologies that people want.''
 One obvious step, which politicians are loath to even mention, would be to increase taxes on gasoline. Here again, the divergence between the United States and Europe is instructive. To encourage the use of mass-transit systems, and finance their development, European governments impose generally high taxes on gasoline. French drivers pay over $5 a gallon for gasoline, $3.75 of that in taxes, compared with $1.90 a gallon on average in the United States, with only 41 cents of that going to taxes.
 Proposing a tenfold increase in taxes to match the European level would, of course, be political suicide in the United States. There have been several attempts to increase federal taxes on gasoline over the years, but ''they've all met with disaster,'' said Kateri Callahan, the president of the Alliance to Save Energy, a business-supported group that promotes energy efficiency.
 ''Mobility is seen as a national right here in the United States,'' Mrs. Callahan said. ''To impose a higher tax when gasoline prices are already perceived to be high is simply not good politics.''
 At the same time, environmentalists face pressure to accept some trade-offs.
 Most European countries, for example, have encouraged drivers to buy cars with diesel engines, which burn 30 percent less fuel than regular engines. Two-thirds of cars registered in France are diesel-fueled, according to the European Automobile Manufacturers' Association. That compares with diesel sales of less than half of 1 percent in the United States.
 One hurdle to diesel sales in the United States is that compared with conventional gasoline-powered cars, diesels emit more smog-forming pollutants, though they offer lower emissions of the kind that contribute to global warming. Still, with better technology, some carmakers like Chrysler plan to offer new diesel models later this year.
 While diesels have made little headway, fuel-efficient hybrid cars -- with electric motors that take over for the gas engines at low speeds and stops -- are gaining in popularity. But so far, only a few carmakers offer them, and there is a waiting list for some of the more popular models, like the Toyota Prius. 
 An additional disparity between the United States and France is the approach to nuclear energy. With domestic production of oil a tiny 3 percent of the two million barrels it consumes each day, France has turned to nuclear power as its economic savior; 80 percent of its electricity now comes from the country's 19 nuclear plants, compared with 40 percent in Sweden, 30 percent in Japan and Germany and 20 percent in the United States. 
 ''Because it didn't draw a lucky geological hand, France has always looked for energy independence,'' said Dominique Maillard, the country's top official in charge of energy policy as the director of energy at the Ministry of Industry. ''We used nuclear power as a path to offset our dependency on imports.'' 
 The United States, in contrast, has turned up its nose at nuclear energy, in part because of the risk of a meltdown (much reduced in recent years, experts say), and in part because of the controversy over the disposal of nuclear waste. The biggest factor, though, was the soaring cost of building nuclear plants to satisfy more rigorous standards. 
 Since the accident at the Three Mile Island nuclear reactor in Pennsylvania in March 1979, no new reactors have been built. With oil prices rising and concern about global warming spreading, nuclear power advocates argue that a new generation of power plants can overcome the problems with nuclear energy at an acceptable cost. 
 To be sure, the depiction of the United States as the world's energy wastrel and of France as a model of virtue can be overdrawn. All developed countries have significantly improved their energy efficiencies in manufacturing and construction since 1973. Moreover, oil's slice of global energy demand has fallen to 35 percent today from 45 percent 30 years ago. 
 Still, oil will remain the main source of energy for decades to come, and official projections still show oil consumption in the United States rising by 43 percent by 2025.
 But rising prices could go a long way to damp demand.
 ''The question is, How much do prices have to increase for attitudes to change?'' Mr. Gupta of the National Resources Defense Council said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Fill it up, but not with regular. A Citroen C3 had its tank filled with natural gas at the Paris auto show last month. (Photo by Thomas Coex/Agence France Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C1)
 France produces 3 percent of the two million barrels of oil it consumes each day. This drilling operation is next to EuroDisney, near Paris. (Photo by Alastair Miller/Bloomberg News)(pg. C5)Chart: ''The French Difference''France has reduced its dependence on oil over the last two decades inpart by turning increasingly to nuclear power as a source of electricity.Graph tracks oil consumption (change since 1980) for both the United States and France.Graph tracks nuclear energy (electricity from nuclear power) since 1980 for both the United States and France.(Source by Energy Information Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); IRAQ WAR (75%); BOYCOTTS (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); CONSUMPTION (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); SPEED LIMITS (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (65%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (65%); FUEL TAX (58%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Conservation of Resources; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%) FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%) France

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



112 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Factory Orders Drop But Consumer Goods Have a Good August

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Factory orders unexpectedly fell in August on lower demand for aircraft, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. But bookings rose for a range of consumer products including automobiles and appliances, suggesting that the economy strengthened in the third quarter.
 ''We are seeing a balanced expansion,'' said Anthony M. Santomero, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. ''We have consumers continuing to spend. We have business investment expanding at a reasonable clip.'' 
 The 0.1 percent drop to $370.5 billion in orders followed a 1.7 percent increase in July, fueled by a surge in orders for expensive commercial planes. Economists focused on the 1.3 percent gain outside of transportation, the biggest since March.
 Factory orders were expected to rise 0.1 percent, the median forecast of 50 economists in a Bloomberg News survey, after a 1.3 percent increase was initially reported for July. Through August, orders were up 12 percent compared with the same period in 2003.
 ''The manufacturing sector is doing quite well,'' said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital Markets in Connecticut.
 Bookings for durable goods, which account for more than half the orders, fell 0.3 percent after rising 1.9 percent in July. They were pulled down by a 7.4 percent decline in transportation equipment, led by a 43 percent drop in commercial aircraft orders after a surge in July.
 New orders for consumer goods rose 1.4 percent in August, the biggest increase in three months. 
 Orders for nondurable goods, including chemicals, drugs, paper, plastics and textiles, rose 0.2 percent after increasing 1.3 percent in July. Total shipments rose 1.1 percent after rising 0.9 percent in July, while inventories rose 0.5 percent, less than in July. The ratio of sales to inventory held at 1.23 months in August, indicating factories have enough goods to satisfy demand for that long at the current sales rate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); FACTORY ORDERS (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); INVENTORIES (79%); NEW ORDERS (78%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); TEXTILES (50%) United States Economy; Consumer Behavior

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (72%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Commerce Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



113 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1739 words

HEADLINE: Deep in Forest, Thirst and Conservation Clash

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

DATELINE: RAQUETTE LAKE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The hamlet of Raquette Lake is set in the forested heart of Adirondack Park, on the edge of a pristine lake. In the summer, it is a departure point for campers and canoeists. During the winter, its 125 or so residents are mostly left alone to hunker down and wait for the spring thaw.
 The hamlet is also the scene of a dispute that environmentalists fear could open the Adirondacks and the Catskills to the kind of aggressive development that these areas have so far been spared.
 The dispute arises from a counterintuitive reality: though surrounded by lakes and rivers, the hamlet has no fresh drinking water. The quality of its unfiltered tap water, which comes from a nearby reservoir, has been in decline for years. It is cloudy and has elevated levels of lead and trihalomethanes, potential carcinogens. 
 On a good day, the water is the color of diluted apple juice; on a bad day, it resembles amber beer. It tastes like rust. For more than a year, the State Department of Health has warned the hamlet's residents to boil their water before drinking it.
 While there is agreement that the hamlet cannot continue to use the reservoir, there is no consensus about how to replace it.
 The hamlet cannot easily drill wells and erect the treatment system it needs to comply with federal law because it is hemmed in by protected state-owned land, known as forest preserve.
 The state has provided the hamlet a reprieve by giving it extraordinary permission to drill emergency wells in the preserve and tie them to the water mains temporarily while state regulators decide whether to make the wells permanent. Local officials have largely discarded the idea of using lake water because it would require an expensive pumping and treatment system.
 The emergency wells have triggered a fierce debate among legislators, environmentalists and state regulators about their legality. The state's leading environmental groups say the situation could lead other towns to seek similar exclusions to allow for more development in the forest preserve.
 Environmentalists and legislators are largely in agreement that a constitutional amendment would provide the best remedy, but there is disagreement about how broad an amendment they should seek. The State Senate has one version, the Assembly another. Most of the state's leading environmental groups fear that the Senate version is too broad and does not protect against overdrilling, which they say could lead to more development in the region.
 The issue has stirred up feelings of regional patriotism in the north country and has driven Raquette Lake's residents to distraction.
 ''It's not an environmental issue anymore,'' said Gregg Wallace, the town supervisor of Long Lake, which includes the hamlet. ''It's a health and safety issue, cut and dried.''
 A town native and a construction contractor by trade, Mr. Wallace, 43, is a big, bald man with a penchant for tough talk and rock 'n' roll. His battle is driven by a conviction that his constituents' well-being takes precedence over the integrity of the forest preserve.
 ''How they can put the health and safety of people second to granola crunching is beyond me,'' he said last month. ''Bottom line is, these people need water.''
 Raquette Lake's water problems are nothing new. For as long as anyone can remember, water from the reservoir -- built in the early 1930's on forest preserve land under a 1913 constitutional amendment -- has had a disagreeable tint to it, the result of decomposing organic matter.
 In the mid-1990's, the Health Department cited the hamlet for using unfiltered water in violation of new federal laws and gave it a choice: begin filtering the water, or find a groundwater source. Filtering cost too much, Mr. Wallace explained, and there was no town-owned land on which to drill. So the hamlet continued to use the reservoir water. 
 Local authorities and residents say the water's turbidity, or discoloration, has increased in recent years. In addition, the Health Department found that chlorine used in the treatment process was combining with organic matter to produce excessive levels of trihalomethanes. The corrosive nature of the water has stripped pipes and caused the lead problem, town officials said.
 Since last year, when the state imposed the order to boil water, local authorities have carted in a 400-gallon tank of fresh drinking water every few days and parked it in the center of town. But some of Raquette Lake's residents have nonetheless continued to drink the tap water.
 ''It's the same water that we all grew up on -- only that it isn't any good,'' said Jim Dillon, 52, a fourth-generation resident and the owner of the hamlet's general store. ''It doesn't bother me.''
 In fact, what seems to concern many residents more than the water's effect on their health is what it does to their belongings. Mr. Wallace keeps a teapot in his office that was once white and is now beige. He held up a white T-shirt with unsightly brown stains. ''Brand-spanking-new shirt,'' he said. ''One wash.''
 The environmental community has pressed for a constitutional amendment to remedy Raquette Lake's problems. Narrowly focused amendments have been used, on occasion, to address local issues, but it is not an easy task. An amendment requires approval by two consecutive sessions of the Legislature before it can be brought before the voters in a statewide referendum. 
 But the issue has become wedged between two competing proposals for constitutional change, and efforts to reach a solution appear to have stalled amid the Albany gridlock.
 The Constitution specifically allows reservoirs in the forest preserve, but makes no mention of wells. Since federal law requires that reservoir water be not only disinfected, but also filtered before drinking -- an expensive proposition -- wells have become the most economically viable option for small communities like Raquette Lake. 
 The proposed Senate amendment, sponsored by Senator Elizabeth O'C. Little, would include wells as acceptable sources of municipal water supply. It would also decrease the acreage of forest preserve available for those municipal water supplies -- wells, reservoirs and treatment facilities -- to 2 percent from 3 percent. The proposal has the backing of the Adirondack Council, one of the park's most prominent environmental advocacy groups.
 The Assembly's version is narrower in scope: it would specifically approve Raquette Lake's new wells and put a cap on the number of acres of forest preserve that could be used for reservoirs. But it would not broaden the list of permissible uses of forest preserve to include wells, except in the case of Raquette Lake.
 Supporters of the Assembly's resolution, sponsored by Thomas P. DiNapoli and backed by several prominent environmental groups, say the Senate's version does not limit water extraction rates and would open the door to drilling in the Adirondacks and the Catskills, possibly spurring development.
 Jeff Jones, a spokesman for Environmental Advocates of New York, said he imagined the following situation under the Senate's amendment: A town digs wells on forest preserve land, ostensibly to satisfy an existing need. But by doing so, it also creates an infrastructure that would act as a catalyst for home building and population growth in the area. While such building would certainly occur outside the forest preserve, he said, it would degrade the entire region.
 ''What we're afraid of here is compromise to the historic protection of the forest preserve leading to overly aggressive sprawling development in the historic towns and villages of the Adirondacks,'' he said.
 Supporters of the Senate's version, however, say its resolution provides sufficient administrative review to forestall rampant drilling and development. Furthermore, they say, this is the time to anticipate similar problems in other communities and take care of them simultaneously.
 The regular legislative session ended without a compromise resolution, and most people involved in the debate said they believed that the issue would be delayed until after the elections in November.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Wallace has been pushing the State Department of Environmental Conservation to grant a permanent permit for the new wells and one for a small water-treatment plant that the town wants to build nearby. Maureen Wren, a spokeswoman for the department, said the application was under review.
 The environmental community, though divided on the constitutional amendment, seems to be in agreement that the state overstepped its bounds by allowing the wells. The decision, environmental leaders say, sets an unfortunate precedent that could open the floodgates to other petitions for emergency use and development of forest preserve land.
 ''We are faced with a violation of the Constitution with what has been done thus far,'' said Neil F. Woodworth, executive director of the Adirondack Mountain Club, an environmental advocacy group. ''In order to bring it in alignment with the Constitution, you have to pass some kind of amendment.''
 For its part, the Department of Environmental Conservation argues that it was entitled to issue the permits because Raquette Lake faced a health emergency, which it says enabled the department to grant permission under state law. ''The D.E.C.'s actions were constitutional,'' Ms. Wren said.
 No opponents have stepped forward to sue -- mainly, they say, because it would be an expensive proposition and would end up depriving the population of fresh water.
 ''We're left now with a community that is essentially breaking the law and us not wanting to sue them because we sympathize with their position,'' said John F. Sheehan, a spokesman for the Adirondack Council. ''It's making us feel queasy.''
 Mr. Wallace brushed aside questions of constitutionality, expressing deep antipathy -- shared by many Raquette Lake residents -- toward the general environmental community, which he accuses of steering the debate and impeding his goal: fresh water for his constituents. 
 A bumper sticker on his car reads: ''It's no damned PARK. It's the ADIRONDACKS. It's our HOME. It's where we WORK.''
 ''I'll fight to the death,'' he said as he stood in a forest clearing near the head of the two wells, waist-high pipes jutting out of the ground. He stretched out his arms in a brawler's come-on and spat a stream of tobacco juice into the dirt. ''Bring 'em on,'' he said. ''Let's go.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Residents of Raquette Lake, near the lake of the same name, must boil tap water, and officials bring in tanks of drinking water every few days.
 Emergency wells, in place amid the debate on how to alter the law. (Photographs by Stewart Cairns for The New York Times)(pg. B5)Map of New York highlights Raquette Lake: In Raquette Lake, N.Y., in the heart of Adirondack Park, water is all around, but there's none safe to drink. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAKES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); PLANT CONSERVATION (86%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); MOUNTAINS (76%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); LEGISLATION (70%); LEAD (68%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (65%); CARCINOGENS (54%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (53%); HAIR LOSS (50%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



114 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Cheaper Part for Fuel Cells To Be Announced Today

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
With oil near $50 a barrel, alternatives to gasoline are attracting more attention -- including fuel cells, devices that convert hydrogen into electric current with no waste products except heat and pure water. 
 Fuel cells have found their way into power systems for laptop computers and into many experimental cars. The main drawback to automotive use of fuel cells, though, has been their cost, which at $100,000 can be 25 times the $4,000 for a gasoline engine of equal power. Lately, some companies, including Honda, have been trying to come up with cheaper versions of the most expensive part of a fuel cell: the membrane that takes the hydrogen fuel and separates it into protons and electrons. 
 This morning, a California company, PolyFuel, plans to announce that it has achieved a breakthrough in fuel-cell membranes by using an alternative material: a hydrocarbon that it says costs only about half as much per square meter. 
 Compared with the fluorine compounds that are the most commonly used for membranes in fuel cells now under testing, PolyFuel says that hydrocarbon membranes allow production of more electricity per square centimeter of membrane. That could mean that a fuel cell could produce the same power as a fluorine-membrane version, but would be smaller and lighter, further adding to efficiency, according to the company. 
 PolyFuel is quick to say that it has not moved the fuel cell to the point of commercial viability, but now hopes to be closer to that goal. ''We're on a great trajectory here to continue to improve state of the art,'' said Jim Balcom, the company's president and chief executive.
 Hydrocarbon membranes can also run under a wider range of temperatures, and thus allow better performance, he said. But he acknowledged that other drawbacks to fuel cells would still need to be resolved -- including the logistics of producing hydrogren and transporting it to electric-car filling stations. The hydrogen molecule is so small that it would escape through the cracks in the pipes used for natural gas. And it is so light that it must be pumped up to extreme pressures to transport more than a few pounds by tanker truck -- requiring more expensive pumps and tanks than are currently in use.
 While some other experts say they are skeptical of some of PolyFuel's claims, a variety of companies, including Honda, which builds prototype fuel-cell cars, are doing work in the area. Gore, the chemical company, has done work on membranes that include hydrocarbons.
 The dominant membrane for the fuel cells now in use is a fluorine-based DuPont product called Nafion, which was developed for use in the chemical industry. It is chemically related to Teflon, which DuPont makes. Nafion and other membranes look like plastic food wrap, but are thicker. 
 According to Mr. Balcom, Nafion will let enough protons slip through to generate about 6.5 kilowatts a meter, but his membrane will generate current of more than 7 kilowatts. (A kilowatt -- a thousand watts -- would run a single window air-conditioner. A car would require 50 to 75 kilowatts.) 
 Honda demonstrated a fuel-cell car with a hydrocarbon membrane in Japan in October 2003, according to Ben Knight, vice president for research and development of Honda's American subsidiary. It has 12 such cars on the road in California and plans to put one in the Northeastern United States soon. A hydrocarbon membrane functions well at temperatures slightly below zero degrees Fahrenheit, he said. Fluorine-based membranes can produce very little power at such low temperatures. 
 In addition, it can tolerate temperatures near the boiling point, substantially hotter than the fluorocarbon membrane, both men said. This is important because fuel cells generate heat that must be dissipated, and getting rid of heat from a system at 200 degrees is easier than cooling off a device that is already closer to the temperature of ordinary air. 
 Mr. Balcom said that hydrocarbon membranes also require less humid air, allowing for simpler equipment within the fuel cell. 
 Skeptics of some of PolyFuel's claims include Scott G. Ehrenberg, the chief technology officer of Dais-Analytic, a Florida maker of hydrocarbon membranes. He said that operating the membranes too close to water's boiling point risked surpassing that point -- as when a driver quickly accelerated. If the water turned to steam it would tear holes in the membrane, he said. 
 But he acknowledged the economic importance of cheaper membranes because they can represent nearly half the cost of the fuel cell. In a car, he said, the membranes would require replacement every year or so, the way existing cars require oil and spark plug changes.
 Mr. Ehrenberg suggested another advantage to hydrocarbon membranes: they are already mass produced. His company sells millions of square feet of hydrocarbon membranes every year, he said, not for fuel cells but primarily for use in raising the efficiency of commercial air-conditioning systems.
 In a commercial building, the ventilation system draws in warm, moist air, chills and dries it, and pumps it inside, and exhausts air that is cool and dry. With a hydrocarbon membrane between those two air flows, the dry air on its way out can suck humidity out of the fresh air on the way in, reducing the workload for the air-conditioner, Mr. Ehrenberg said. 
 People pursuing hydrocarbon membranes as a cost-cutting measure are ''barking up the correct tree,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Chart/Diagram: ''An Improved Fuel Cell''Electricity is generated in a fuel cell after hydrogen atoms are stripped of their electrons by a catalyst. The resulting free protons pass through a membrane to combine with oxygen and the returning electrons to form water.Fluorocarbon MembraneCurrently, fuel cell membranes are made from a fluorocarbon and have fibers that are arranged randomly, making the path that protons travel long and complex.Hydrocarbon MembraneNewly developed membranes are made from a hydrocarbon and the fibers are organized into conductive blocks. This path is more direct and the protons pass through more easily, generating greater power.Diagrams highlight a fluorocarbon membrane and a hydrocarbon membrane.(Source by PolyFuel, Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (93%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); FLUORINE MFG (88%); INORGANIC CHEMICALS MFG (88%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); BULK SHIPPING (78%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (78%); CONCEPT CARS (77%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (72%); CHEMICALS MFG (71%); EXECUTIVES (63%) Fuel Cells; Hydrogen; Fluorine; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Fuel Cells

COMPANY: POLYFUEL INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Polyfuel

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: Jim Balcom; Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



115 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: MEMO PAD

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:

RELIEF SOUGHT FOR THE UNWARY -- Business-traveler advocates appealed to the airline industry yesterday to take pity on passengers who have tickets for flights that no longer exist. The Business Travel Coalition and the Association of Retail Travel Agents yesterday urged airlines to voluntarily extend beyond a Nov. 19 expiration date a federal regulation that requires them to honor tickets purchased on competitors that cease operations. The regulation, Section 145 of the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, obligates airlines to accommodate, at a round-trip fee of no more than $50, passengers holding tickets on an airline that stops flying because of liquidation or other bankruptcy-related causes. Passengers ''should be provided protection against airline failures when, as taxpayers, they recently provided airlines with billions of dollars'' in loans, grants and other post-9/11 relief, said Kevin Mitchell, the chairman of the Business Travel Coalition. The airline industry as a whole has not taken a position on the issue and probably will not, said Jack Evans, a spokesman for the Air Transport Association, a trade group for domestic carriers.

DALLAS BATTLES -- American Airlines said yesterday that it would discontinue its twice-daily nonstop service between New York's Kennedy International Airport and Long Beach, Calif., and once-a-day service between Kennedy and Phoenix, effective Nov. 1. American said the planes used on those routes would be deployed to Dallas-Fort Worth, to support an expansion there as Dallas-Fort Worth emerges as a new airline battleground. Delta Air Lines recently said it would severely reduce its operations to Dallas. Shortly afterward, Southwest Airlines, which operates most of its Dallas flights from a secondary airport, Love Field, said it was considering a major expansion into Dallas-Fort Worth.

MILE-HIGH SUITES -- Virgin Atlantic Airways burnishes its sexy image whenever it can, so its introduction of private two-person compartments in Upper Class Suite cabins on several of its 747's is being greeted with predictable giggles. Virgin said it had redesigned the 747 premium cabins to accommodate four ''double suites.'' Basically, this involves removing partitions between two regular Upper Class Suite compartments to allow for tandem working or sleeping space, said a Virgin spokeswoman, Elizabeth Ciresi. The move has both business and romantic attractions. Couples traveling together are the main market, but Virgin also thinks the configuration will appeal to business travelers flying with colleagues, as is increasingly the case, and who want a space where they can ''do some work together,'' Ms. Ciresi said. In the late 1990's, as Virgin and British Air, its rival on the lucrative trans-Atlantic routes geared up to introduce the first lay-flat sleeper seats, Sir Richard Branson, the founder of Virgin, speculated that there was a market for double beds in premium cabins.

CAR TALK -- Business travelers who use your own cars, take note: Detroit, Los Angeles and the Hempstead, N.Y., area are the most expensive places to operate a typical 2005 midsize car, according to Runzheimer International. Runzheimer used insurance, fuel, maintenance, taxes, licensing, depreciation and other costs to calculate average annual costs for 15,000 miles driven. In Detroit, it costs $11,114 a year to own and operate that sedan. In Los Angeles, it's $10,016; and in Hempstead, on Long Island, it's $9,880. The others on the top 10 high-cost list are New Orleans; St. Louis; Buffalo; Atlanta; Topeka, Kan.; Fort Myers, Fla.; and Portland, Ore., the No.10 city, where the cost was $7,485.

OIL AND MONEY -- Adjusted for inflation, a typical domestic airline ticket costs less now than it did in 1978, and even without taking inflation into account, domestic air fares are lower today than they were in 1988, according to the Unisys R2A Scorecard for September. The monthly industry analysis by Unisys, which provides information technology services, noted that fuel prices had shot up 12 percent, to $1.09.4 cents a gallon in July, from 97.8 cents a gallon in February. The problem, as the Unisys analysts stated it: ''The intense competition of today's airline industry means that air carriers cannot pass on increased fuel costs, or for that matter any other rising expenses, to their consumers.'' JOE SHARKEY


GRAPHIC: Photo: American Airlines is expanding service at the Dallas-Fort Worth airport as Delta cuts operations there. (Photo by Mike Fuentes/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (93%); AIRPORTS (91%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); APPEALS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (55%) Airlines and Airplanes; Shutdowns (Institutional); Kennedy International Airport (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (90%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (84%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Business Travel Coalition; Association of Retail Travel Agents; American Airlines; Virgin Atlantic Airways

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (90%); LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (50%) Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (91%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (88%) TEXAS, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; Long Beach (Calif); Phoenix (Ariz); Dallas (Tex); Fort Worth (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



116 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Broadway Pit Shrinks; Drummer Is Sent to Room

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
On the seventh floor of the St. James Theater, two musicians in the orchestra for ''The Producers'' give new meaning to the phrase ''phoning it in.''
 The theater's pit is too small to fit a harpist and a percussionist, so every night (and at matinees) Anna Reinersman and Benjamin Herman cram themselves into a 10-by-20-foot room draped in crimson velvet curtains, with water pipes running above.
 As an air conditioner hums, they watch a little man -- the conductor -- on a television monitor. Headphones pipe in the music from colleagues in the pit downstairs, and close-range microphones transmit Ms. Reinersman's and Mr. Herman's own playing to a sound board. Their parts are mixed with the other players' and broadcast through loudspeakers to listeners in the audience, who cannot tell the difference. 
 ''I could play there in my underwear, and they would have no idea what's going on,'' Mr. Herman, the percussionist, said. 
 During a performance last week, he actually happened to be wearing khaki pants and a denim shirt, unlike the black clothing required in the crammed pit below. This was not the only difference. 
 Mr. Herman and Ms. Reinersman, the harpist, talked freely with a visitor throughout the show, occasionally interrupting the conversation to jump in with a harp glissando or a timpani whack, then immediately picking up the thread. Ms. Reinersman wrote a letter to a long-lost high school friend; Mr. Herman had a book by his side (''The Right Nation: Conservative Power in America''). 
 ''I just find this much more civilized,'' Mr. Herman said.
 Remote rooms in Broadway houses are unusual but not unheard of, and anecdotal evidence suggests that they are becoming more common. 
 As pits have grown smaller, so that more seats can be sold or set designers' fancies indulged, a string quartet or a woodwind band, say, is moved into exile. The shrunken pit can be lucrative: add two rows of seats at $100 each for eight performances, and that could add up to $40,000 a week. Moreover, technology has made it easier to deploy musicians elsewhere. Shows have grown more heavily amplified, so the audience more and more hears what speakers are emitting.
 ''Once you're hearing an orchestra solely through a sound system instead of hearing them acoustically, then it doesn't really matter where they are,'' said Jason Howland, a composer and musical director. 
 Spending an evening in a remote room -- it's affectionately called the ''sky pit'' at the St. James -- gives a glimpse into the lives of pit musicians, many of whom are highly skilled graduates of elite conservatories who, to make ends meet, play the same score hundreds, even thousands, of times in what can be an exercise of stupefying boredom.
 Mr. Herman sits surrounded by 20 percussion instruments, including two timpani, vibraphones, glockenspiel, chimes, cymbals and sleigh bells. A bass drum hangs from the ceiling. A television monitor and tambourine hang from water pipes, as does a telephone hotline to the conductor, fastened by a wire hanger. When not playing, Mr. Herman often sits back with his leg draped over a drum. 
 For Mr. Herman, 54, a Juilliard graduate and a busy freelancer, his is the ultimate Broadway job. The absence of a loud orchestra around him removes the worry about hearing loss, a common occupational hazard, and the playing requires less effort. because the sound mixers regulate the volume. He can bring percussion students to visit. He has a chance, rare for a pit player, to interact with the actors in the understudy dressing room next door, who have been known to offer margaritas. ''Of course we say no,'' Mr. Herman said. ''You can put that in the paper.''
 Ms. Reinersman, 33, a Yale graduate with a degree from the Manhattan School of Music, sometimes checks in on Yankee radio broadcasts during breaks and plans a summer music festival she helps run in New Bern, N.C. 
 Not quite anything goes in the sky pit. Ms. Reinersman recoils at the thought that she could use the time to make phone calls. ''I have to pay attention,'' she said. ''For some reason, it strikes me as fundamentally wrong.''
 Sitting in with the two musicians can be a bizarre experience of a seemingly random series of sounds. Mr. Herman, gliding among his instruments with extreme economy of motion, delivers a quick timpani rumble, the twong of wind chimes, a tambourine tattoo. Ms. Reinersman, her hands moving like ballerinas, draws out disassociated arpeggios, glissandos, plucked figures. 
 But when you listen with headphones, the random sounds lock in with the rest of the orchestra like puzzle pieces, and the precision is startling. After three and a half years of sitting next to each other, the two have a needling camaraderie. 
 Mr. Herman cranks a ratchet to imitate an accountant's adding machine during Leo Bloom's number ''I Wanna Be a Producer.''
 ''That's genius,'' Ms. Reinersman cracked.
 ''It's the pinnacle of the art form,'' Mr. Herman said.
 Life in the sky pit is an extreme example of what goes on, nonmusically speaking, in the pit. Reading and doing crossword puzzles are major activities, naturally. Look at the oboists and bassoonists, and you may see them whittling obsessively on reeds. One musician in ''Cats'' was known to watch a mini-television, using headphones. 
 ''It sort of depends on what you can get away with,'' said Matthew Dine, an oboist with the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra, the American Ballet Theater and now ''Fiddler on the Roof,'' in which he plays onstage but hidden from the audience by a scrim. ''I get a lot of work done there,'' he said, referring to the paperwork he fills out as a contractor for other ensembles.
 The segregation of out-of-pit musicians also creates the conditions for shenanigans.
 ''It doesn't get much crazier than dart guns,'' Mr. Dine said. ''We've had some small plastic flying chickens in 'Fiddler,' only because in our little area it's possible.''
 The string room at ''Will Rogers Follies,'' which ran from 1991 to 1993, lives on in legend. The musicians set up a basket and shot a Nerf ball, and laid down a putting green. Richard Sher, a cellist in the show, recalls lox and bagel spreads on Sundays, spiced with Bloody Marys. By the end of the show's run, he said, players were improvising away. 
 By many accounts, the level of musicianship in Broadway pits has risen, partly because of shrinking opportunities for classically trained players and partly because of improved pay and benefits. The work provides steady income for freelancers, who in effect become mini-subcontractors, supplying a stream of substitutes if they have another gig or want to spend the summer at the Aspen Music Festival in Colorado, as Mr. Herman does.
 At the same time, the frustration factor rises. ''You go to Juilliard, you think you're going to be a soloist, then reality comes up and you have to pay the bills,'' said Mr. Sher, a veteran of the Boston and St. Louis symphonies who played in pits while starting a solo career.
 Back at the ''Producers'' sky pit, the high jinks continue. Shortly before a big harp entrance late in the first act, the conductor that night, Phil Reno, waggles a little greeting with his fingers to Ms. Reinersman. Whoosh, comes her glissando. Simultaneously, Mr. Herman raises the room lights. 
 ''I get it every time,'' he said. 
 ''Sometimes it's late,'' Ms. Reinersman said sardonically.
 ''Yeah,'' Mr. Herman shot back, ''but they don't know it downstairs.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Benjamin Herman, a percussionist in the orchestra for ''The Producers,'' takes his cue on the seventh floor of the St. James with headphones that pipe in the music and by watching the conductor on a small screen. (Photo by Elizabeth Lippman for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Anna Reinersman, a harpist in the orchestra for ''The Producers,'' performs not in the pit, which is crammed with players and instruments, but on cue from the seventh floor of the St. James Theater. (Photo by Elizabeth Lippman for The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); THEATER (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (73%) Theater; Theater; Music; Acoustics; Finances; Wages and Salaries; Fringe Benefits; Theater

PERSON: Daniel J Wakin

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



117 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: Pension Failures Foil 6-Figure Retirements, Too

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND and MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Tom Paulsen worked for 36 years as a trucking executive, and when he retired two years ago, he thought he had secured a comfortable life. He had a 12-acre farm near Sacramento and a pension of $151,000 a year, his payoff for years of working 70-hour weeks. 
 Then three months later his company, Consolidated Freightways, filed for bankruptcy and the federal government took over its pension plan. Mr. Paulsen's pension fell to $22,000. To pay his expenses, which include $9,000 for health insurance, he has had to divide up the farm and offer most of it for sale.
 Mr. Paulsen, 61, is just one of more than 500,000 Americans whose pension plans have failed in the last three years and been taken over by the federal government, leaving many without health insurance and some, like Mr. Paulsen -- high earners who retire early -- with pensions much lower than those they had counted on. 
 ''The average person is not going to feel overly sorry for me, and I don't expect it,'' Mr. Paulsen said, acknowledging that he still has investments and savings. ''But I moved nine times for the company and expected a lot more. There were a lot of sleepless nights.''
 As major airlines and old-line industrial companies use bankruptcy to stay alive, or simply go out of business, many workers are being thrown into a federal safety net that does not always protect them. 
 Among those hard hit are commercial airline pilots, who by law cannot fly passengers after they turn 60. Pilots typically retire with pensions of $100,000 or more, based on their final salaries and years of service. But the federal Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the agency that takes over failed pension funds, usually matches the payments only for workers who retire at age 65 and earn pensions of up to $45,000 a year. The limits are set by Congress. 
 People who retire early or earn more can feel singled out precisely for their success. In the most recent count, in 1999, those people accounted for 7 or 8 percent of those relying on the agency, but that percentage is expected to rise when the retirees of the last few years are counted. 
 J.B. Cockrell, 63, retired from United Airlines in 2001 with a pension of about $100,000. But in August the airline announced it was likely to discontinue its pension plans for employees, following the lead of Pan American World Airways and U.S. Airways. Mr. Cockrell fears what will happen next.
 ''This is something my wife and I are relying on,'' he said. If the government takes over, he said, his pension might not even cover the mortgage on his home. 
 ''We have two children in college,'' Mr. Cockrell said. ''If we lose the pension, we'll have to sell our home and move someplace less expensive.''
 Workers or retirees can face tremendous uncertainty as their pension plans teeter or fail. Because the rules are complicated, workers going through a company bankruptcy often have little real sense of how complete their insurance coverage will be. In some cases, the coverage is linked to the amount in the dying pension fund, which companies often do not disclose. 
 Thirty years ago, Congress approved legislation to ensure that when a company promised a pension, it made good. Since 1974, companies have had to fund pensions according to federal rules, and the government has insured the benefits. 
 But tens of thousands of companies, many of them small businesses, have exempted themselves from those requirements by terminating their pension funds and offering other types of retirement benefits that are not so heavily regulated. These benefits are not guaranteed. 
 And of the companies that still sponsor traditional pension plans, hundreds have gone bankrupt and defaulted, including giants like Bethlehem Steel and Polaroid.
 The pension agency has now taken over company plans for one million workers and retirees, and has been stretched to a deficit of $9.7 billion. As more pension plans fail, some retirees worry about the security of even their insured incomes. 
 At the same time, a growing number of companies are discontinuing their retiree medical benefits, which are not covered by government insurance, and for which companies are not required to set aside money.
 ''For most people, the big hit is losing their health benefits,'' said Chris Dagg, a staff lawyer at the Mid-Atlantic Pension Counseling Project in New York City, which assists low-income pensioners. 
 Sheldon Buckler, 73, a retired Polaroid executive in Newton, Mass., recalled that when the company declared bankruptcy in 2001, rumors swept the workforce. ''I heard you'd lose 90 percent, or very little, or half,'' Mr. Buckler said. ''I knew I didn't understand it.'' 
 Mr. Buckler had retired in 1994, with an annual pension ''in the very low six-figure range,'' he said. About half of it came from the company's regular plan and half from a supplemental plan for executives. 
 Executive plans are not insured by the government, so Mr. Buckler lost most of that part of his benefit. And since the remainder still exceeded the insurance limits, he lost about 10 percent of that, too. 
 He has not had to change his lifestyle, he said, in part because he and his wife continue to work. But he has had to reduce the money he planned to give to his children and grandchildren. He feels the system let him down.
 ''We felt cheated,'' Mr. Buckler said. ''You work all your life with the expectation that you've earned certain benefits, then someone can pull the rug out. After 30 years with the company, you're just another creditor.''
 When government officials proposed creating the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation in the 1970's, corporations lobbied against it, arguing that few would require its benefits, while all companies with pension plans would have to pay its premiums. Some unions fought it, too, because they thought the funding requirements would divert money away from wages. 
 Bill Wickert, now 72 and living in Virginia, lobbied against the proposal on behalf of Bethlehem Steel. Now he is one of its beneficiaries. ''Thank goodness we lost,'' he said. 
 When Bethlehem Steel's pension failed in 2002, the government covered most of Mr. Wickert's standard pension, though he lost an executive compensation package that was not covered. He and his wife have had to give up their car, a Chrysler Sebring, replacing it with a less expensive truck, and at the moment they have no life insurance. 
 Meanwhile, thousands of rank-and-file steelworkers lost benefits for a different reason. Their pension fund was regulated and insured, but it offered special supplements in case of plant closings. These were not contemplated by Congress when it created the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, so they were not insured.
 Nor did Congress create any insurance coverage -- or even any funding rules -- for retiree medical benefits, which are often promised along with pensions. As a result, retirees whose pensions have been fully covered by the pension benefit corporation -- typically lower earners who could not afford early retirement -- have often lost their health benefits when their companies have gone bankrupt. 
 Don Badie, 68, retired from Acme Steel in 1989 after 31 years of working on the furnace, with a pension of $22,000 a year. When Acme's pension plan failed in 2002, the government covered him in full. But at about that time, Mr. Badie went to pick up a prescription for his wife and found that she was no longer covered. His own bills are covered under a program for veterans and by Medicare. 
 Besides buying prescription drugs for his wife, he said, ''I'm out of pocket $3,700 for a breast biopsy and $700 for a CAT scan.'' 
 As a result, the Badies are eating cheaper foods and do not travel, Mr. Badie said. ''Now I sit waiting for the hurricanes to blow through,'' he said from his home in Cape Coral, Fla. 
 ''We had 260,000 steelworker retirees lose their health care,'' he added. ''I was fortunate. A lot of people I know have had to go back to work. Most are at Publix, bagging groceries.''
 Mr. Paulsen, the retired trucking executive, has also gone back to work, starting an auto restoration company with one of his sons, who was laid off from his job as a mechanic at United Airlines. He hopes to sell most of his farm in the spring. 
 ''We're not starving,'' Mr. Paulsen said. ''But I anticipated that the pension would be there and I would not have to work.'' 
 He added: ''I thought restoring cars was going to be my hobby in retirement. But now it's a business.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sheldon Buckler, left, and Tom Paulsen are retired executives whose pensions were cut when their companies' plans failed. ''After 30 years with the company,'' Mr. Buckler said, ''you're just another creditor.'' (Photo by Max Whittaker/Corbis)
 (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)(pg. A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (92%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); EARLY RETIREMENT (89%); AIRLINES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (86%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (73%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); CHILDREN (69%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Bankruptcies; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Airlines and Airplanes; United States Economy; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Pensions and Retirement Plans

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (65%); CON-WAY INC (57%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (51%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp

TICKER: CNW (NYSE) (57%); LCC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (65%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (65%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (57%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (57%)

PERSON: John Leland; Mary Williams Walsh

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



118 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Try to Dilute Bill on Taxing Corporations

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
Despite widespread agreement that abusive tax shelters are costing the federal government billions of dollars a year, House Republicans are working to eliminate or dilute provisions in a new corporate tax bill aimed at cracking down on illegal shelters. 
 The provisions, opposed by a range of business lobbyists and tax lawyers, are part of a larger battle in Congress over how hard to attack the rapidly expanding use of complex transactions that turn real-world profits into tax-world losses.
 The issue is coming to a boil in a House-Senate conference committee that Monday night resumed considering a corporate tax bill that would provide up to $170 billion in tax breaks. 
 With only a few days left before Congress is supposed to adjourn, lawmakers are trying to make hundreds of last-minute changes that could affect tens of billions of dollars in tax revenue. Business groups, ranging from the National Association of Manufacturers to the Business Roundtable, have worked with tax lobbyists and accounting firms to protect the tax shelters. 
 A study prepared last year for the Internal Revenue Service estimated that abuse of tax shelters cost the federal government $12 billion to $18 billion a year.
 A study last week by Citizens for Tax Justice, a liberal research organization, reported that 82 of the nation's most profitable companies paid no corporate taxes in at least one of the last three years.
 Both the House and Senate have passed bills that would raise billions of dollars by shutting certain kinds of tax shelters. But House Republicans have balked at several provisions that the Senate passed with broad bipartisan support.
 One crucial Senate provision, for example, would greatly increase penalties on people who spin complex transactions that serve no other purpose except to avoid taxes.
 Supporters of the Senate bill say it would address a glaring weakness of the system: even when a court finds that a tax deal is abusive, it rarely imposes penalties beyond making a company or a person pay back taxes.
 ''Multinational corporations use complicated schemes to claim they've had losses when they've really had gains,'' said Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat who has been pushing for such a provision since 1999. ''These schemes are so complicated that even the experts have difficulty getting to the bottom of them. One way of challenging these apparent tax losses is to say this complex scheme that may involve many different entities has no economic substance.''
 The nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation, which provides the revenue estimates on proposed tax bills, estimated that just one of the disputed provisions would raise about $15 billion over the next 10 years.
 But House Republicans oppose that measure. Representative Bill Thomas, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said two weeks ago that the provision was unnecessary and would have a chilling effect on legitimate business deals. 
 Mr. Thomas also opposes a provision in the Senate bill that would allow the Internal Revenue Service to demand that companies promoting tax shelters turn over a list of their customers.
 Opponents of the Senate bill's tax shelter provisions are particularly incensed about a provision that has strong support from Senator Charles Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee.
 That provision would tighten the definition of tax shelters, putting into legislation the well-established judicial doctrine that a financial transaction has to have ''economic substance,'' which means it has to have a purpose beyond reducing taxes.
 Kenneth J. Kies, a prominent corporate tax lobbyist in Washington who has defended some of the biggest tax shelters, said the Senate bill would have ensnared scores of companies engaged in routine transactions.
 ''This is a much broader provision than its being made out to be,'' Mr. Kies said. ''It would set up a standard for economic substance that would be very hard for garden-variety business transactions.''
 But supporters said the provision would simply add some teeth to a concept that courts have used for years.
 The dispute goes to the heart of all kinds of tax shelters, but it could have a big impact on one of the biggest kinds of transactions in recent years: leasing deals in which cities, including New York City, sell subway trains and other public infrastructure to private investors, who then lease them back and take advantage of tax write-offs for equipment depreciation.
 The goal of the deals is to give investors tax breaks that are of no use to municipal governments, including many cities and organizations outside the United States, that pay no federal taxes. For the cities, the deals reduce the cost of new equipment at the expense of the federal Treasury.
 Both the House and Senate bills would prohibit such deals in the future, but the Senate bill could invalidate many deals that are already in existence. As a result, the Senate bill would raise about $45 billion over 10 years, while the House bill would raise about $19 billion.
 But if the final law includes the Senate provisions on ''economic substance,'' investors who entered into such deals could face stiff penalties on top of losing their tax shelters.
 Joseph Bankman, a professor of tax law at Stanford University, says California has already reaped $1.3 billion from a similar provision it passed one year ago. The California law declared that any tax shelter that fails the test for economic substance could be subject to penalties but it offered an amnesty to people who came forward voluntarily.
 ''It is still very much the exception rather than the rule that people have to pay penalties,'' Mr. Bankman said.
 Calvin Johnson, a professor of tax law at the University of Texas in Austin, said the Internal Revenue Service would have to impose ''gargantuan'' penalties before it really frightened off companies or individuals trying to shelter tens of millions of dollars.
 But Mr. Johnson said there was a pressing need to attack the widespread view, which he said was generally accurate, that people can avoid penalties simply by obtaining an opinion from tax lawyers in advance of a deal that says the transaction fits the letter of the law.
 ''There is a common view that you can set up an elaborate scheme and that if you have the opinion of a respectable attorney that you can't be assessed any penalties,'' he said.
 But the conventional wisdom may be changing. In a decision that electrified tax-shelter promoters, a court ruled in August that Long-Term Capital Management, the huge hedge fund that nearly went bankrupt in 1998, took $106 million in improper tax deductions and owed $56 million in taxes and penalties.
 ''The Long-Term Capital case showed that the I.R.S. has many arrows in its quiver,'' said Tim McCormley, executive director of the Tax Executives Institute, an association of tax professionals who work at major corporations. ''In the past, taxpayers had what they viewed as a 'get out of jail free' card if they had an opinion from a highly respected law firm. That's not the case anymore.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 7, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about efforts by House Republicans to soften provisions of a bill aimed at cracking down on illegal tax shelters misspelled the surname of the executive director of the Tax Executives Institute, who discussed the courts' toughening stand on improper deductions. He is Timothy J. McCormally, not McCormley.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California, said that portions of the bill would have a chilling effect on business. (Photo by Susan Walsh/Associated Press)(pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); LOBBYING (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX FRAUD (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); LITIGATION (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); LAWYERS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%) Taxation; Law and Legislation; Tax Shelters; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Tax Evasion; Fines (Penalties); Taxation

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (82%); BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (56%); CITIZENS FOR TAX JUSTICE (55%) Internal Revenue Service

PERSON: LLOYD DOGGETT (58%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



119 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Shares Gain, in Part on Fed Banker's Estimate for Growth

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday, supported by a dip in crude oil prices and a bullish assessment of the economy from a Federal Reserve official. Oil for November delivery backed off the $50-a-barrel level established at the close of trading on Friday to settle at $49.91 a barrel, down 21 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Investors' hopes were also lifted by remarks from Anthony M. Santomero, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, who said in a speech that he expected the economy to grow by 3.5 percent to 4 percent through 2005. 
 But some analysts said recent economic data and the forecast for third-quarter earnings might not support that degree of bullishness. ''You've had some fundamental chinks in the armor that have shown themselves over the week, with the economic data and the preannouncement warnings we've seen,'' said Chris Johnson, manager of quantitative analysis at Schaeffer's Investment Research. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 23.89 points, or 0.23 percent, to 10,216.54, after climbing 112.38 points on Friday. Broader stock indicators performed better. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 3.67 points, or 0.32 percent, to 1,135.17, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 10.20 points, or 0.53 percent, closing at 1,952.40. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization companies gained 4.06 points, or 0.69 percent, to end trading at 589.09.
 On the New York Stock Exchange, advancing issues outnumbered those declining by nearly 3 to 2. Volume fell to 1.53 billion shares from 1.64 billion on Friday.
 With the market having advanced in four of the last five sessions, investors were gaining optimism about a fourth-quarter rally and looking past third-quarter earnings, which many expect to be disappointing. 
 ''I think the third-quarter earnings are already priced in,'' said Neil Massa, equity trader at John Hancock Funds, ''so any surprises we get out of there will be a positive for the market. We also have the jobs figure on Friday, and that has the potential to be either really good for the market, or spark a major sell-off.''
 The Commerce Department reported a 0.1 percent decrease in August factory orders yesterday, in contrast to the 0.1 percent increase that had been forecast on Wall Street. But the department revised its report on July's factory orders to a gain of 1.7 percent from 1.3 percent.
 American International Group, one of the world's largest insurance companies and a Dow industrial average component, slipped 23 cents, to $68.49, after announcing that it faced an inquiry by the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 Wal-Mart Stores, a bellwether for the retailing industry, rose 18 cents, to $53.31. Wal-Mart said sales at stores open at least a year increased 2.3 percent in September, somewhat making up for a disappointing August. The company also approved a $3 billion stock buyback program, on top of a $7 billion program previously announced.
 Office Depot gained 6 cents, to $15.14, after announcing that its chairman and chief executive, Bruce Nelson, was leaving. 
 PeopleSoft dropped 63 cents, to $22.20, after gaining 15 percent on Friday when it dismissed its chief executive, Craig A. Conway. The company, which is thought to be on track for acquisition by Oracle, said it expected increases in both revenue and net income for the third quarter. Oracle slipped 3 cents, to $11.87.
 Charles Schwab fell 15 cents, to $9.07, after its brokerage subsidiary said it would reduce commissions for online trading customers. 
 Among pharmaceutical stocks, Merck regained a little of last week's steep losses after it announced the withdrawal of its drug Vioxx from the market. Merck gained 92 cents, closing at $34.23, on volume of more than 35 million shares. Merck's rival Pfizer was up 33 cents, to $31.30.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasuries Rise Slightly
By Reuters
 United States Treasury securities were modestly higher yesterday as investors proved reluctant to make major bets ahead of events this week, including a speech by the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, and the September jobs report. 
 Underlying a four-day sell-off in bonds last week that lifted yields a quarter-percentage point were worries that better economic performance could allow the Fed to continue raising interest rates for some time.
 By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 4/32 to 100 22/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.17 percent from 4.19 percent on Friday. Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.574	99.994	High Rate	1.685	1.990	Investment Rate	1.716	2.038	Low Rate	1.670	1.940	Median Rate	1.675	1.970	Total applied for	$47,860,448	$37,122,957	Accepted	$25,779,813	$23,222,666	Noncompetitive	$1,635,572	$1,186,341	

Both issues are dated October 07, 2004. The three-month bills mature on January 06, 2005 and the six-month bills mature on January 07, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''3-Month Treasury Bills''High rate at weekly auction.Graph tracks bills from June through September.(Source by The Bond Buyer)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BONDS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); INSURANCE (74%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (72%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%); WMT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



120 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: Richmond Mayor's Race Features Ex-Governor

BYLINE: By LISA A. BACON

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va., Oct. 4 

 BODY:
For former Gov. L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia, now running to become mayor of Richmond, there is victory of sorts just in the race itself.
 For more than 50 years, the City Council has appointed the mayor from its own ranks. But Mr. Wilder, a Democrat, with former Representative Thomas J. Bliley Jr., a Republican, led efforts to establish the mayoral election. Mr. Wilder and Mr. Bliley carried the process from petitions to referendum to approval by the state General Assembly and the federal Department of Justice. 
 When the question was put to the voters, 80 percent voted for the right to elect a mayor. City Council members opposed the move, saying it would dilute minority voting strength in the city, where five of nine council districts are represented by blacks. 
 The move to a popularly elected ''strong mayor'' carries with it a shift of administrative powers, including moving oversight of the city's budget to the mayor from the city manager. 
 In a city dogged by unemployment and crime, the council's efforts to reclaim Richmond's position as a major Mid-Atlantic cultural and business center have had little success. Since both problems are more prevalent in some districts than others, discussions on apportionment of city resources often turn territorial. 
 ''We don't have a single voice that speaks for Richmond,'' Mr. Wilder said. ''Right now, we have nine mayors.''
 Mr. Wilder, who in 1989 became the first African-American elected governor in the United States, faces the incumbent, Rudolph C. McCollum; a former school board member, Charles Nance; and an architect, Lawrence E. Williams, in the nonpartisan race.
 Since leaving the governor's office in 1994, Mr. Wilder has stayed on the periphery of state and local politics. He has been the host of a radio talk show and was a leader in efforts to build a $200 million National Slavery Museum in Fredericksburg. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (95%); CITY GOVERNMENT (95%); CITIES (93%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); POLITICS (76%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); PETITIONS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); REFERENDUMS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); BUDGETS (68%); SLAVERY (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%) Mayors; Elections; City Councils

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%)

PERSON: Lisa A Bacon; L Douglas Wilder

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (96%) VIRGINIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Richmond (Va)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



121 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 71 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Malaysia: Exports Rise

BYLINE: By Wayne Arnold (NYT)

 BODY:
Malaysia's exports rose 23.7 percent in August, compared with the same month a year ago, led by demand from the United States for electronics, petroleum products and chemicals. The growth was slower than expected, but was enough to push the country's monthly trade surplus to a record 8.06 billion ringgit ($2.12 billion). The government has predicted that Malaysia's economy will grow 7 percent this year. Wayne Arnold (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (86%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (84%) International Trade and World Market; Records and Achievements

PERSON: Wayne Arnold

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%) Malaysia

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



122 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Europe Worries Over Russian Gas Giant's Influence

BYLINE: By JUDY DEMPSEY; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: BERLIN, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
Politically the phrase ''Soviet satellite'' would seem to be plucked from the ashcan of history, but political theory does not always govern economic reality.
 Much to the consternation of the European Union, which now numbers several former Soviet bloc nations among its members, Russia through its natural gas monopoly, Gazprom, has spun a web of control over energy supplies extending from Estonia on the Baltic Sea to Bulgaria on the Black Sea.
 Russia holds the world's largest natural gas reserves, with 1,680 trillion cubic feet, more than twice the next-largest reserves, in Iran, according to the Energy Information Agency of the United States Energy Department. 
 Not surprisingly it is the world's largest natural gas producer and exporter, giving Moscow considerable economic leverage over the countries that are dependent on Russian gas, and the leverage is not limited to the former satellites. Over 44 percent of the European Union's gas imports come from Russia, mostly from Gazprom. 
 Late last month a delegation from Gazprom visited Washington at the invitation of Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans and met with both government officials and executives of American energy companies. 
 Having invested $2.6 billion in joint ventures with offshore trading companies, Gazprom now controls the supply, sale and distribution of natural gas through much of Europe. In September, Gazprom became a major oil producer as well by acquiring Rosneft, Russia's No. 5 oil company. The combination could give Russia even more bargaining power in global energy circles.
 Gazprom is the sole gas supplier to Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Slovakia, and provides 89 percent of Hungary's gas, 86 percent of Poland's and nearly three-quarters of the Czech Republic's. In May all three nations joined the European Union, which has called on members to diversify their sources of energy supplies. In addition, according to the Energy Information Agency, Gazprom supplies 36 percent of Germany's gas, 27 percent of Italy's, 25 percent of France's, 67 percent of Turkey's, 65 percent of Austria's and 100 percent of Finland's. 
 ''Russia wants to sustain its market position in the whole of Europe and especially in the ex-Soviet bloc countries,'' said Agata Loskot, a Russian expert at the Center for Eastern Studies in Warsaw. ''Of course, its activities in the new E.U. member states can be helpful in the expansion into Western Europe.''
 According to the European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, Russia now supplies 44 percent of the natural gas and 18 percent of the crude oil imported by the 25 member states.
 Gazprom has a big economic interest in increasing its sales to Western European markets because prices on the world market are considerably higher than in Russia, where they are capped. Although only a third of Russia's gas sales in terms of volume go to Europe, they account for 70 percent of the revenue from natural gas.
 Claudia Kemfert, energy expert at the DIW economics research institute in Berlin, said, ''On the one hand, these countries do feel more secure now that they are inside the E.U.'' But, she continued, ''The entry of these countries into the E.U. has not led to more competition or diversification of energy supplies.
 ''How can these countries diversify?'' Ms. Kemfert added. ''Gas and oil comes from Russia. The point is that it is hugely costly to modernize these energy sectors. So if they can continue to get the gas and oil from Russia, maybe in the long term it is cheaper for them.''
 Emmanuel Bergasse, administrator for Central and Eastern Europe at the International Energy Agency, an intergovernmental body based in Paris, said, ''Gazprom gains control through direct investments and subsidiaries.''
 Indeed, under the stewardship of Aleksei Miller, whom President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia named chief executive in 2001, Gazprom has expanded at home and abroad. The acquisition of Rosneft, previously a state-owned company, gives the Kremlin a controlling interest in Gazprom, just over 50 percent from 38 percent previously. But the remaining shares are publicly traded, and foreigners may buy them.
 Gazprom holds nearly a third of the world's natural gas reserves and produces 90 percent of Russia's natural gas. The company's tax payments make up nearly a quarter of the national government's tax revenue. Last year, according to the company's annual report, it had revenue of 780.6 billion rubles, or $26.7 billion, and net profit of 142 billion rubles -- a rise of 270 percent over the previous year. Gazprom also operates the country's natural gas pipeline grid, giving it immense power over competitors, and in the East European and Baltic region, Gazprom now has at least 23 big joint ventures and offshore companies, many of them involved in gas distribution and transportation.
 Its interests extend to other energy sectors. In Lithuania, for example, Gazprom has a 51 percent stake in the Kaunas electric power plant.
 According to a report by Ewa Paszyc for the Center for Eastern Studies, Gazprom has used these offshoots to maintain control of distribution in the post-Soviet era.
 ''Gazprom establishes a holding or a joint venture with a local gas-pipeline operation, creating a transit monopoly for Russian gas,'' Ms. Paszyc writes. Then through both contracts and informal means like personal connections and lobbying, it gains control, she added.
 In 1998, for example, Gazprom, took over the shares of Topenergy, a Bulgarian company dealing with commercial distribution of gas in Bulgaria. Until then, Bulgargaz, the state-owned gas company, had owned Topenergy. Gazprom clinched the deal only after promising to take over Topenergy's debts.
 The monopoly's deals are worrisome to Westerners, who want to see more competition among companies.
 ''This is not how business is done inside the E.U.,'' said Mr. Bergasse of the International Energy Agency. ''There is the issue of security of supply. If you buy gas from an offshore trading company, it could disappear. Who will then take over the supply and the obligations that go with it?''
 Furthermore, he said, Gazprom's network of joint ventures across Eastern Europe is interfering with the European Commission's aim of diversifying energy supplies to European Union countries. ''Gazprom's stated aim is to extend its dominant position,'' Mr. Bergasse added. 
 But even as Westerners worry about Gazprom's expansion, some Russians involved in the energy sector are skeptical about the financial value of the joint ventures. A report issued by Hermitage Capital Management, Russia's largest equity-investment fund, with assets of $1.5 billion, including shares in Gazprom, said Gazprom did ''not seem to be receiving significant profit from its investments in these joint ventures.''
 ''I have raised the same question about the role of these joint ventures in Eastern Europe,'' said Vadim Kleiner, director of research at Hermitage. ''Are there any economic returns from these investments for Gazprom, and if not, what is the business rationale for spending such money?'' 
 Asked about the profitability of its investments in the area, a spokeswoman for Gazprom, Olga Moreva, said only, ''Gazprom is satisfied with the financial performance of its joint ventures in the European region.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A heating unit at a Gazprom refinery in Urengoy, Siberia, helps keep natural gas flowing to the growing list of European Union member countries that depend on Russia for energy supplies. (Photo by Dmitry Beliakov/Bloomberg News)(pg. W1)
 Workers wrestled a drilling rig into position at a Gazprom field in Urengoy, Siberia. Some countries, including members of the European Union, rely on the Russian energy giant for the majority of their gas supplies. (Photo by Dmitry Beliakov/Bloomberg News)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%) Gas (Fuel); International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (93%); OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (57%) Gazprom (Russian Co); European Union

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (93%); GAZP (RTS) (93%); ROSN (RTS) (54%); ROSN (LSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%)

PERSON: judy dempsey

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%) EUROPE (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); ESTONIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); POLAND (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); LATVIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); BULGARIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); ITALY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); FINLAND (79%); HUNGARY (79%); FRANCE (79%); AUSTRIA (73%) Russia; Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



123 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Sports Authority Approves Lease for Xanadu

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J., Oct. 4 

 BODY:
The New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority gave the go-ahead on Monday to an ambitious, privately developed $1.3 billion sports and entertainment complex abutting the Continental Airlines Arena in the Meadowlands.
 The project, known as Meadowlands Xanadu, will spread across 106 acres and feature a year-round indoor ski jump, a mini Formula One racing oval, an indoor wave pool and a 35-screen movie theater billed as the nation's largest.
 The authority voted 8 to 0, with one abstention, to approve a 175-year lease with the project's developers, the Mills Corporation, a mall developer based in Arlington, Va.; Mack-Cali Realty of Cranford, N.J.; and KanAm, a real estate firm based in Germany. The action followed three years of debate over the project, which had been strongly supported by Gov. James E. McGreevey. 
 Under the deal, the state will receive a total of $160 million in nine installments from the developers, which will be used to retire the arena's outstanding debt. The lease also requires the developers to sell 600 acres of wetlands to the state for $26 million. The Mills Corporation had hoped to use the land to develop a shopping mall but dropped that plan in the face of vigorous opposition. The land will instead be preserved as wetlands.
 The agreement also calls for the developers to contribute $65 million for road improvements and the construction of a rail spur to the Meadowlands sporting sites, and $12 million in annual payments in lieu of taxes to the 14 towns in the Meadowlands area that will be affected by traffic and other disruptions.
 The governor, who attended the authority's meeting, called the action a ''momentous occasion in the life of the state.'' He said the project represented a grand vision that would provide an economic engine for the surrounding area.
 Despite the euphoria in the authority's boardroom on Monday, George R. Zoffinger, the authority's president and executive director, noted that a lawsuit brought by unsuccessful bidders could derail the project. Hartz Mountain Industries and the Westfield Group claim that the bid process was improper and that the Xanadu proposal violated bid requirements that the project not be a mall. If a court blocks the project between now and April 2005, the lease allows the developers to cancel the deal and recoup their initial lease payment but not money spent on construction.
 Critics of the deal, including Hartz officials, call it a giveaway of tax dollars. They noted that the state was paying the Mills Corporation $26 million for the wetlands even though it was highly unlikely the company would have been allowed to build its proposed mall.
 The leases held by the Giants, Jets, Nets and Devils would require that Xanadu negotiate arrangements to make sure its activities and those of the teams do not conflict. 
 ''I think they should put a big dry cleaners in their mall because they have just taken the taxpayers to the cleaners,'' Jeff Tittel, director of the Sierra Club of New Jersey, said. ''With the state paying for most of the needed transportation and road improvements and picking up the tab for all of the problems down the road, this is the most one-sided deal since we got Manhattan for $24.''
 The project's developers said the complex could open as early as 2006. The pace of the project has already outstripped the proposed development of an arena in Newark, the plan that gave birth to Xanadu. When the owners of the Nets and the Devils proposed building a new arena in Newark in 2000, Bergen County residents cried foul over the potential loss of jobs and taxes. Gov. Christie Whitman, then her successor Donald T. DiFrancesco and finally Mr. McGreevey vowed to build the Newark arena, but not without giving Bergen County residents a replacement development at the Meadowlands site.
 As the Meadowlands planning began in 2000, the Newark arena got bogged down in financing fights and state politics. The Nets then decamped to Brooklyn, and the Devils were sold to new owners. As the Meadowlands Xanadu deal was being signed on Monday, Newark was still in the process of condemning land for the proposed arena, negotiating lease terms with the Devils and fending off prickly opposition from the City Council.
 James F. Dausch, president of Mills's development division, provided the sports authority with new details about the tenants and activities planned for the complex. 
 Mr. Dausch said the complex would include a child-size city, a digital playground, television studio, indoor sky-diving and ski jumping, a cooking school and theme-oriented tenants like Nickelodeon, Fox Sports, House of Blues and Nascar.
 While there would be retail areas related to the theme-related spaces, he said, ''this doesn't make it a mall any more that having feathers makes a duck a chicken."


GRAPHIC: Photo: An artist's rendering of the Meadowlands Xanadu in East Rutherford, N.J. The complex will feature a ski jump and a 35-screen movie theater. (Photo by Mills Corporation via Associated Press)Map of New Jersey shows the location of the Xanadu site: The sports and entertainment complex will cover 106 acres.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); AIRLINES (77%); GOVERNORS (75%); WETLANDS (71%); FORMULA ONE RACING (71%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (69%); LITIGATION (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (64%); EXECUTIVES (61%); MOVIE THEATERS (56%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); MACK-CALI REALTY CORP (57%); WESTFIELD GROUP (52%); HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (91%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (58%); CLI (NYSE) (57%); WDC (ASX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (57%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (52%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (52%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (52%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (52%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



124 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Bush Calls Kerry's Policies A Danger for World Peace

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: CLIVE, Iowa, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
President Bush charged Monday that Senator John Kerry's policies were ''dangerous for world peace'' as his campaign suddenly changed plans for an event on medical liability on Wednesday and scheduled a speech by Mr. Bush on terrorism and the economy instead.
 On the eve of the vice-presidential debate, with polls showing that Mr. Bush lost ground after his debate with Mr. Kerry on Thursday, the pressures on the White House to regain the upper hand appeared to be mounting. 
 To that end, Mr. Bush flew to Iowa, one of the most closely contested states, to sign into law extensions of three popular middle-class tax cuts that he said Mr. Kerry had opposed and that Mr. Kerry's campaign said he did not. 
 Then the president attacked the senator in harsh terms on national security by referring to Mr. Kerry's vote against the first gulf war, in 1991, which drove Iraq from Kuwait.
 ''In 1991, when my dad was president, he saw a threat, and that was that Saddam Hussein was going to overrun Kuwait,'' said Mr. Bush, who appeared relaxed and in good spirits at an Ask President Bush forum despite the generally negative reviews of his debate performance.
 If Mr. Kerry's vote had carried the day, the president said, ''Saddam would not only have been in his palaces, that means he would have been in Kuwait, as well.''
 ''The policies of my opponent are dangerous for world peace,'' Mr. Bush said. ''If they were implemented, they would make this world not more peaceful, but more dangerous.''
 The president also stepped up his ridicule of Mr. Kerry for his plan to hold a summit meeting to help solve the problems in Iraq.
 ''I've been to summits,'' Mr. Bush said as he paced in his shirtsleeves at the 7 Flags recreation center in Clive, eight miles north of Des Moines. ''You don't bring terrorists to justice at summits. I can imagine him walking into the leaders of the world saying, 'We need your help, but Iraq is a mistake.'''
 Mr. Kerry, Mr. Bush said, ''has no plan.''
 ''A summit,'' he said, ''won't solve the problem. Strong, consistent leadership is what this world needs.''
 A spokesman for the Kerry campaign, Phil Singer, responded: ''If George Bush thinks John Kerry's plans to strengthen the military, build alliances and implement the 9/11 commission's intelligence reforms will make the world a more dangerous place, he's even more detached from reality than he demonstrated at the debate the other night.''
 The White House press secretary, Scott McClellan, said that Mr. Bush would travel Wednesday to Wilkes-Barre, Pa., as scheduled, but that the medical liability event had been postponed and that Mr. Bush would deliver a speech ''on our nation's two highest priorities.'' Mr. McClellan said those were the economy and the campaign against terrorism. He said it would be a ''significant speech.'' 
 It is unusual for the tightly scheduled White House to change plans so suddenly. But polls show that Mr. Bush's greatest electoral strength against Mr. Kerry remains his record on fighting terrorism. Medical liability is a far less potent issue.
 Asked by reporters en route to Iowa on Air Force One whether the change in Wilkes-Barre was because of polls that show the race tightening, Mr. McClellan demurred.
 ''We're very well aware of those, of the polls,'' he said. ''At this stage in the campaign, you always want to have some flexibility in your schedule.''
 Mr. Bush's first stop on Monday was in Des Moines, where he signed the tax legislation in a Y.M.C.A. gymnasium. The setting was in striking contrast to the splendors of the White House East Room, where Mr. Bush normally holds his signing ceremonies for significant bills.
 The economy remains a major issue in Iowa, a state that Mr. Bush lost by a slim margin in 2000 and where polls now show him with a slight lead.
 ''The law I sign this morning comes at just the right time for America,'' Mr. Bush said.
 The signature on the bill, which affects an estimated 94 million Americans, keeps three tax breaks from expiring on Jan. 1: a $1,000-a-child tax credit, a provision providing lower taxes for some married couples and a reduction of the tax rate from 15 percent to 10 percent on some income.
 The president did not mention Mr. Kerry at the signing ceremony, which was officially a nonpartisan event. But he wasted no time in attacking the senator at his ''Ask President Bush'' campaign forum in Clive an hour later. Mr. Kerry, the president said, had voted against the very tax cuts he had just extended, and would raise taxes once in office.
 ''But we're not going to let him tax you,'' Mr. Bush said. ''We're going to carry Iowa and the country in November.''
 In fact, Mr. Kerry has supported the three tax breaks that Mr. Bush extended, but he voted against them in 2001 because they were part of a broad tax-cut bill that he opposed. Mr. Kerry voted against the overall legislation on the ground that it primarily benefited the wealthy. 
 When the tax cuts are fully in place, more than 50 percent of the savings will go to the richest 1 percent of taxpayers. 
 Mr. Bush touched briefly on Mr. Kerry's proposals to pay for health care, which he said were ''creeping toward 'Hillary Care,''' a reference to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's failed efforts as first lady to overhaul health care.
 Mr. Kerry has called for expanding existing government programs for the poor and increasing subsidies for employer-based coverage. 
 Mr. Bush also promised that the government would continue the all-volunteer Army and that ''we will not have a draft, so long as I am president of the United States.''
 Mr. McClellan said Mr. Bush had a session on Sunday to prepare for the second presidential debate with Mr. Kerry on Friday in St. Louis, a town-hall-style forum with audience questions, and would have more sessions this week. Aides said Ask President Bush forums were preparation, as well, even though participants were invited by Republicans and past questions have included many statements that simply praised Mr. Bush. 
 ''There is some of that,'' Mr. McClellan acknowledged to reporters.


GRAPHIC: Photo: In a Y.M.C.A. gym in Des Moines, President Bush signed into law extensions of middle-class tax cuts yesterday. He changed the focus of a speech tomorrow to terrorism and the economy from medical liability. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); TERRORISM (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TAX LAW (75%); DESERT STORM (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%) Presidential Election of 2004; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); Debating; Public Opinion; Taxation

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN KERRY (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (72%) IOWA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (93%); IRAQ (93%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



125 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Powell Is Upbeat on Ties With Latin America

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, opening a brief visit to Brazil, said Monday that the Bush administration's relations with Latin American and Caribbean nations were improving despite recent political turmoil in the region and lingering disagreements on trade and other issues.
 ''There are always problems, but I think we're doing well in Latin America,'' Mr. Powell told reporters accompanying him on his flight to Brazil's financial capital. ''I don't accept the characterization that the place is awash with problems that the United States hasn't tended to.'' 
 Reinforcing that upbeat assessment is one of the objectives of Mr. Powell's trip, which according to his aides is the first he has made as secretary of state to Latin America's largest country. President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva has visited the White House twice since his election in 2002 as the first Brazilian president from the leftist Workers' Party.
 Mr. Powell said the focus of his trip was not simply on Brazil's internal matters but on the growing role it has been playing in the region, most notably in Haiti, where Brazil leads a United Nations peacekeeping contingent introduced after the forced resignation of President Jean Bertrand Aristide earlier this year.
 Though Brazil has sent its troops as peacekeepers around the world, this is the first time they have gone to another country in the region. The United States and France helped broker the arrangement under which Mr. Aristide resigned and Brazilian-led forces stabilized Haiti under a caretaker government.
 Right now, Haiti is faced with the after-effects of Tropical Storm Jeanne, which has destroyed many of its buildings and left hundreds of thousands of people homeless and without provisions.
 There have also been riots since the storm, which Mr. Powell said had been carried out by ''old Aristide elements and some criminal elements'' trying to take advantage of the situation. Mr. Powell said he had considered traveling to Haiti on his way back to the United States from Brazil but decided not to place an undue burden on that country at a time when recovery and policing efforts are under way. Instead, he plans to stop in the island nation of Grenada, also devastated by the storm.
 The United States has said it will provide $13.3 million in immediate relief and reconstruction aid for parts of the Caribbean hit by the storm and is seeking another $50 million from Congress. ''I hope the Congress will act on it later this week,'' the secretary said.
 Two years ago, President da Silva's fiery leftist statements stirred concern in Washington, but now American officials say they are pleased that he has turned out to be relatively conservative on economic issues, like the importance of reducing budget deficits, and has helped American policies not only in Haiti but also in Venezuela.
 Mr. Powell declared that those and other actions had transformed Brazil into a major power and a source for free enterprise and economic growth in the hemisphere and beyond.
 Starting last winter, Venezuela was rocked by protests against President Hugo Chavez. The Bush administration declared that Mr. Chavez had brought many of his problems on himself because of his leftist politics. But then the United States and Brazil worked to arrange a referendum on Mr. Chavez's presidency that he ended up winning.
 The dispute with Mr. Chavez is ''over and behind us,'' Mr. Powell said, adding that Latin American countries ''are looking for a better relationship with the United States and we are looking for a better relationship with them.''
 Some irritations have persisted. When the United States required fingerprints of visiting Brazilians, Mr. da Silva's government retaliated by requiring the same thing of Americans entering Brazil. Now, however, American officials say those problems have receded, in part because fingerprinting is required of all countries, not just Brazil.
 Mr. Powell also dismissed the importance of another disagreement, between Brazil and the International Atomic Energy Agency, over inspections of its nuclear plants. Brazil has limited inspectors' access, but Mr. Powell said the dispute over inspections could be resolved.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); CONSERVATISM (72%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (71%); TROPICAL STORMS (63%); WEATHER (63%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (78%) Steven R Weisman; Colin L (Sec) Powell; George W (Pres) Bush; Luis Inacio (Pres) Lula Da Silva

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); LATIN AMERICA (96%); HAITI (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); GRENADA (79%); FRANCE (79%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



126 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1513 words

HEADLINE: Can Fear Win Undecided Voters? Psychologists Say Maybe Not

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
For all the policy differences it revealed, the presidential debate last week also highlighted what has become a predominant theme in this presidential campaign: fear. 
 President Bush implied that Senator John Kerry's ''mixed message'' on Iraq would only encourage the enemy. Mr. Kerry warned that Mr. Bush's ''certainty'' could needlessly extend a bloody occupation.
 Each side hopes that fear of a future shaped by the opposing candidate will help win over undecided voters. 
 Yet psychologists who study the effect of emotion on voting behavior say that undecided voters are the least likely to respond to fear as a persuasion tactic.
 In fact, new research suggests that it is the politically informed partisan voter who is most susceptible to persuasion by fear and anxiety. Voters who are truly undecided, many political scientists argue, are not so much torn between the candidates as tuned out, and they do not feel strongly enough about issues to be swayed by threatening messages.
 ''If the campaigns want to shake out more support, win over these voters, fear is one way they can do to it,'' said Dr. Ted Brader, a University of Michigan political scientist who studies political advertisements, ''but the dollars may be better spent on ads that rally support among their own base.'' 
 Although campaign consultants have long known that scare tactics can win votes, it is only recently that psychologists and political scientists have devised studies to find out whose votes they win, and why. Some researchers have sifted through nationwide polling data, before and after elections, looking for relationships between anxiety levels and changes in voting behavior.
 Others have conducted experiments comparing the effects of commercials not only on people's opinions but on how they actually engage political issues and assess candidates. The study of emotion, said Dr. Arthur Lupia of the University of Michigan, ''has become all the rage in political science.'' 
 In studies, Dr. Brader and other researchers have found that advertisements using fear worked best among the ''sophisticated'' voters, who surveys showed tended to be partisan and well informed. 
 ''The conventional wisdom is that politicians use these kinds of ads to prey on the uninformed masses,'' Dr. Brader said. ''I found that that could not be less true.'' 
 In one study, accepted for publication by The American Journal of Political Science, Dr. Brader tested the effect of a variety of campaign advertisements on 286 Massachusetts voters during a recent campaign for governor. They represented a cross section of the state's voters, and they viewed the political spots as they would at home, during commercial breaks in other shows.
 The advertisements were clearly partisan, intended to stir anxiety about issues like crime and education, in some cases by stating that things were bad, in others by adding to the same message ominous music and grainy images intended to stir fear. 
 Dr. Brader found that among sophisticated voters who viewed the threatening advertisements, about 26 percent said they would change their votes in favor of the candidate promoted in the commercial. (Another 8 percent or so said they would switch their votes in the opposite direction.)
 Among less savvy voters, only 13 percent said they would change their votes to favor the advertised candidate (13 percent switched their vote the other way). Sophisticated voters who saw the fear-based ads were also more likely than less informed voters to read about the issues raised. 
 Dr. Brader cautioned that the large percentage of voters who changed sides partly reflected the isolated conditions of the lab; in the real world, where people see streams of conflicting messages, the effect was likely to be more muted. Still, in another just-completed study of advertisements on immigration, Dr. Brader and a colleague, Dr. Nicholas Valentino, found a similar effect. 
 Fear campaigns are as old as democracy, but they came of age in the postwar era of mass media advertising. In the famous ''daisy'' advertisement, used by President Lyndon B. Johnson against Barry Goldwater in 1964, images of a girl picking petals from a flower dissolved into a nuclear explosion. 
 Twenty years later, in the classic ''bear'' ad promoting President Ronald Reagan, a bear made its way through a field toward a lone person, while a narrator warned: ''Some people say the bear is tame. Others say it's vicious and dangerous. Since we can never really be sure who's right, isn't it smart to be as strong as the bear?'' 
 Perhaps the most infamous use of fear was a 1988 advertisement used to attack Gov. Michael Dukakis, the Democratic nominee. It showed a mug shot of a convicted murderer, Willie Horton, who attacked a couple while he was on prison furlough in Massachusetts, Mr. Dukakis's home state. 
 Since then, both Democrats and Republicans have run campaigns intended to scare Americans into thinking that their health care benefits were under siege by meddling socialists or greedy capitalists. 
 In the current campaign, waged at a time of terror abroad and government warnings at home, security threats, blending death and uncertainty, create a receptive audience for fear-based messages. 
 Unconscious reminders of death can prompt anger, and a subtle hardening of political views, studies have found.
 ''What's different about this election is not only the level of fear but that it's a different kind of fear,'' said Dr. Jon Krosnick, a political scientist at Stanford. ''We don't know who to be afraid of, the fear is more diffuse than ever before, and there's a sense that at any moment now there could be a terrorist running around.''
 One reason these appeals may sway partisans more than undecided voters is simply that self-identified Democrats and Republicans care more about the issues being raised, the researchers say. 
 ''Anxiety works to unhinge you from your convictions,'' said Dr. George Marcus, a political scientist at Williams College, ''but if you don't have any convictions to speak of, then it's not going to have that effect.''
 In an analysis of presidential elections from 1980 to 1996, Dr. Marcus and a team of researchers correlated the anxiety that voters reported feeling about politics in national surveys with their likelihood of defecting from their chosen party. 
 In times of peace and prosperity, partisans remained very loyal to their parties, even when they actually preferred the opposing party's platform on many issues, the researchers found. In times of turmoil, when the opposing party's platform looked palatable, rates of defection were far higher. The analysis will be presented this month at a political science symposium.
 Dr. Marcus said the tendency for anxious voters to reappraise their positions helped explain why as many as 31 percent of Democrats defected to Mr. Reagan in 1980 during the time of the Iran hostage crisis and double-digit inflation. It also helped account for why up to 17 percent of Republicans defected to Bill Clinton during the economic uncertainty of 1992. 
 ''Once voters begin feeling anxious, they really start comparing the two parties, actively seek more information, and rely less on the usual cues such as party affiliation,'' Dr. Marcus said. 
 In fear-based elections like this one, he argues, the rate of defections should be high, turnout should be high, and ''the campaign that wins is the one that gets more defections from the other side than it gives up.''
 Political scientists are divided over this theory of emotion and voting behavior. There is evidence that many voters coolly appraise the country's economic performance over the last year, rather than losing themselves in the passion of a campaign.
 In addition, most fear advertisements fail to have their intended effect, others backfire, and studies of fear-based public health campaigns -- to improve dental habits, for instance, or diet -- suggest that when the rhetoric gets overheated, people shut it out.
 It is true, as well, Dr. Krosnick said, that many people vote on the basis of one or two issues, like abortion or gun control, regardless of the state of the economy, national security, or partisan posturing. 
 Finally, in a tight race campaigns can also succeed by mobilizing their base and appealing to those among the uncommitted who are sitting on the sidelines, waiting until the last weeks or days to decide.
 None of these theories, of course, can predict the winner in November. Rather, experts say, it is more likely that the election will shed light on which theory has the most merit. Perhaps defections will carry the day, perhaps the independents. 
 Or, contrary to most predictions, the decisive group may turn out to be the no-shows. 
 ''For those who have grown uncomfortable in their party,'' said Dr. John Alford, a political scientist at Rice University in Houston, ''my guess is that they'll plan to vote but find something else to do that day. They'll get busy, they'll plan to get home early enough to get to the polls but not make it. They'll just avoid the decision.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The ''daisy'' commercial for Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964
Ronald Reagan's ''bear'' advertisement in 1984
 and the Willie Horton ad used by George H.W. Bush's campaign in 1988. (Bear and Willie Horton images from CNN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (91%); PSYCHOLOGY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); GOVERNORS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%) Research; Emotions; Political Advertising; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%) University of Michigan; American Journal of Political Science

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%) Benedict Carey; Ted (Dr) Brader

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



127 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Car Bombs Across Iraq Kill 26 and Wound 100
Three powerful car bombs exploded across Iraq, killing at least 26 people, including 2 children, and wounding more than 100 others in a day of carnage that demonstrated the relative ease with which insurgents are striking in the hearts of major cities. The surge in violence lately has led many experts to voice serious doubts about whether legitimate elections can be held in January, as scheduled. A1

A report to be made public tomorrow by the top American weapons inspector in Iraq will outline new details of attempts by Saddam Hussein's government to undermine United Nations sanctions as part of a plan to produce illicit weapons if those sanctions were lifted, Bush administration officials said. A10

Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said that he had seen no ''strong, hard evidence'' linking Saddam Hussein and Al Qaeda, although he tempered his comment by noting that stark disagreements on that issue remained among American intelligence analysts. A10

The Army charged four soldiers with murder and dereliction of duty in the smothering of an Iraqi general during an interrogation last fall. The charges bring to at least 10 the number of United States troops charged with murder in the deaths of Iraqis. A10

Trying to Stem Tide of Migrants
With many hundreds of migrants having died while crossing the Mediterranean in rickety boats, European leaders have been sparring over a plan to stem the flow of potential immigrants to the European Union by building holding centers in North Africa. Only those whose applications are approved would then be allowed to proceed to Europe. A1

Finally, a Trial in Cambodia
After years of delays, the Cambodian Parliament's lower house ratified an agreement with the United Nations to create an international tribunal to try surviving leaders of the Communist Khmer Rouge for atrocities during their rule in the late 1970's. A number of issues still lie ahead, including the need to raise an estimated $57 million from international donors. A7

Briton Charged in Bomb Plot
American law enforcement officials filed charges against a British man, Saajid Mohammed Badat, saying he plotted to blow up airliners in concert with Richard C. Reid, a fellow Briton caught aboard a trans-Atlantic flight with bombs inside his shoes in late 2001. Mr. Badat is now in custody in Britain, where he is expected to face trial sometime next year for conspiracy. A20

Plutonium Transfer in France
France is poised to take possession of 300 pounds of weapons-grade plutonium from the United States for reprocessing into fuel, an operation that its opponents contend creates a risk of nuclear terrorism. A11

NATIONAL A14-21

Poll Cites Gain for Kerry; Bush Iraq Policy Doubted
Senator John Kerry came out of his first debate with President Bush having reassured many Americans of his ability to handle an international crisis or a terrorist attack, but he failed to shake a perception that he panders to voters in search of support, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll. A1

Mr. Bush and his campaign are making a serious push for the allegiance of African-American clergy members, while the Democrats are fighting back to motivate the highly symbolic constituency. A15

On the eve of the vice presidential debate, Mr. Bush charged that Mr. Kerry's policies ''are dangerous for world peace'' as his campaign suddenly changed plans for an event on medical liability and scheduled a speech on terrorism and the economy instead. A17

Senator John Kerry accused President Bush of ''turning his back on science in favor of ideology'' and presented himself as the more forward-looking leader who would lift the president's restrictions on embryonic stem-cell research. A16

In the final month of the campaign Democrats are increasingly tying the White House to the Saudi Arabian royal family, a line of attack that they say is highly effective, but it has stirred concern among Saudis. A16

Flaws in Pension Funds
As major airlines and old-line industrial companies use bankruptcy to stay alive, or go out of business, many workers are being thrown into a federal pension safety net that does not always protect them. A1

Court Tackles Sentencing Laws
On the first day of its new term, the Supreme Court heard arguments on the constitutionality of federal sentencing guidelines that have been in effect for 17 years. The justices left little doubt that the system would change but many questions on what form that change might take. A14

Senate Battles Over Spy Chief
Senate authors of a plan to reorganize United States intelligence agencies defeated efforts to reduce the power of a new national intelligence director. A21

Private Craft Wins Space Prize
SpaceShipOne, a private rocket ship, shot into space, reaching a record altitude of 368,000 feet, or 69.7 miles, and won a $10 million aviation prize for its creators. A1

Nobel for Study of Smell
Two American scientists who solved the enigma of how people can smell 10,000 different odors and recall them later were awarded the 2004 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. A18

Volcano Erupts, but Lightly
Heightening the suspense over what a quivering Mount St. Helens may do next -- and delighting thousands of tourists -- the volcano spewed a giant column of steam and sputtered another picturesque puff later. A21

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Wells for a Thirsty Town Set Off Parkland Battle
New York State has allowed Raquette Lake, a hamlet in the heart of the Adirondack Park that has no fresh drinking water, to drill emergency wells in the protected forest preserve. But environmentalists worry that the arrangement will lead to similar exclusions to allow for more development. B1

Digging for Bodies
F.B.I. agents and police detectives began digging in a vacant lot on the Brooklyn-Queens border, searching for the bodies of three men believed to have been killed by the mob and buried there more than two decades ago. B1

Accuser Proves Elusive
Federal agents have been trying for weeks, without success, to speak with Golan Cipel about his relationship with Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey. Now, some investigators are worried that Mr. Cipel may never agree to talk about the inner workings of the administration. B1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Space Specimens Saved
Scientists think useful samples of all the many types of solar particles collected by the Genesis space capsule survived its crash in the Utah desert almost four weeks ago, promising researchers years of study into the origins of the solar system. F2

Health & Fitness F5

FASHION B9

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-7

ARTS E1-12

Gift for Brooklyn Academy
As the Brooklyn Academy of Music prepares to unveil its $8.6 million exterior restoration, academy officials say the long-struggling institution's turnaround has been strengthened by two major gifts totaling $30 million, more than doubling its endowment. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Battle Over Tax Shelters
House Republicans are working to eliminate or dilute provisions in a new corporate tax bill aimed at cracking down on illegal tax shelters, despite widespread agreement that abusive shelters are costing the federal government billions of dollars a year. C1

A.I.G. Warned on Releases
American International Group said the Securities and Exchange Commission had warned that it might take formal action against the company because of press releases on continuing investigations that the commission considers ''false and misleading.'' C1

Vioxx Lawsuits Expected
The decision by Merck to halt sales of Vioxx, its blockbuster painkiller, could lead to hundreds and perhaps thousands of new lawsuits against the company, lawyers said. C2

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

OBITUARIES B8

Janet Leigh
The actress best remembered for the shower scene in which she was slashed to death in Hitchcock's ''Psycho,'' she was 77. B8

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: The nuclear bomb that wasn't; decoding Chinese Communism; life and death in the Senate; Verlyn Klinkenborg on Marion Crane.

Columns: Paul Krugman, David Brooks.

Crossword E6
Public Lives B2
TV Listings E11
Weather D8


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MURDER (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); AIRLINES (76%); ARMIES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); GENOCIDE (74%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); MILITARY OFFENSES (72%); AL-QAEDA (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); LITIGATION (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); EUROPE (93%); CAMBODIA (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



128 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE POLL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1816 words

HEADLINE: POLL FINDS KERRY ASSURED VOTERS IN INITIAL DEBATE

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and JANET ELDER

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry came out of the first presidential debate having reassured many Americans of his ability to handle an international crisis or a terrorist attack and with a generally more favorable image, but he failed to shake the perception that he panders to voters in search of support, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
 The poll also found significant doubts about President Bush's policies toward Iraq, with a majority of the public saying that the United States invaded too soon and that the administration did a poor job thinking through the consequences of the war. But Mr. Bush maintained an advantage on personal characteristics like strong leadership and likability, as well as in the enthusiasm of his supporters. 
 Four weeks from Election Day, the presidential race is again a dead heat, with Mr. Bush having given up the gains he enjoyed for the last month after the Republican convention in New York, the poll found. In both a head-to-head matchup and a three-way race including Ralph Nader, the Republican and Democratic tickets each won the support of 47 percent of registered voters surveyed in the poll. 
 Last month, Mr. Bush led Mr. Kerry by 50-42 in a two-way race and 50-41 in a three-way race.
 The results, which parallel those of several other national polls in the past few days, are likely to intensify interest in tonight's debate in Cleveland between the vice-presidential candidates, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina and Vice President Dick Cheney, as well as the two additional presidential debates, on Friday and Oct. 13. 
 Aides to both campaigns said yesterday that the running mates' debate, which begins at 9 p.m. Eastern time, was unlikely to have a major impact on the vote in November. That did not stop them, though, from trying once again to set high expectations for the other side, as each campaign pointed to the debating strengths of its opponents. 
 Some of the drop in Mr. Bush's numbers appeared to reflect the traditional cycle in which a candidate's standing surges after his nominating convention and then declines somewhat. Both the Bush and Kerry campaigns have said for months that they expect the race to be tight at the very end. 
 But Mr. Kerry also scored notable gains in several areas that could be vital in a campaign being largely fought over the war in Iraq and the threat of terrorism.
 Forty-one percent of registered voters said they had confidence in Mr. Kerry's ability to deal wisely with an international crisis, up from 32 percent before the debate. Thirty-nine percent said they had a lot of confidence that Mr. Kerry would make the right decisions when it came to protecting against a terrorist attack, up 13 percentage points.
 On both scores, however, Mr. Kerry still trailed Mr. Bush. Fifty-one percent of voters said they had confidence in Mr. Bush's ability to deal with an international crisis, unchanged from before the debate, and 52 percent said they had a lot of confidence in his ability to protect against a terrorist attack, up slightly from 50 percent last month.
 Mr. Bush's strategy of portraying Mr. Kerry as an unprincipled flip-flopper appears to have stuck in the national consciousness. Sixty percent of registered voters said Mr. Kerry told people what they wanted to hear rather than what he really believed, about the same level as throughout the spring and summer. The corresponding figure for Mr. Bush was 38 percent.
 It is unclear whether the race for the White House has merely reverted to a steady state in which neither candidate can establish a clear lead, whether Mr. Bush can regain the advantage with a strong performance in the next debates or whether Thursday was a turning point at which Mr. Kerry seized the initiative.
 There is also considerable uncertainty over whether national polling numbers reflect the state of play in the 18 or so swing states where the election will be decided and where the relative success of get-out-the-vote efforts by both sides could prove to be the difference. In recent weeks there has been a surge of new voter registrations in many states as the two campaigns and their allies seek to ensure that every possible supporter goes to the polls on Nov. 2.
 The Kerry campaign said the poll showed that the race was moving in its direction. The nationwide telephone poll of 979 adults included 851 registered voters. The margin of sampling error for the entire sample, and for registered voters, is plus or minus three percentage points.
 ''The public took a measure of John Kerry standing next to the president, and came to the conclusion that he had the strength, judgment and experience to be the commander in chief,'' said Joe Lockhart, a senior strategist for Mr. Kerry. 
 Mr. Bush's team said he remained ahead in the ways that would count most on Election Day.
 ''We always said this race would be close,'' said Matthew Dowd, Mr. Bush's chief campaign strategist. ''When style fades quickly, leadership and policies remain, and that is where the president has the advantage.''
 Over all, Mr. Kerry appears to have come off well in the debate, which respondents to the poll said, 60 percent to 23 percent, that he won.
 The proportion of registered voters saying they viewed Mr. Kerry favorably jumped to its highest level, 40 percent, from 31 percent in mid-September, while the number of people who said they did not view him favorably, 41 percent, did not change appreciably.
 The percentage of voters who said their opinion of Mr. Bush was favorable dipped slightly, to 44 percent from 47 percent last month, while the percentage of voters who said they did not view Mr. Bush favorably increased to 44 percent from 38 percent in that period.
 Mr. Kerry, who sought to emphasize during the debate how aggressive he would be in hunting down terrorists and protecting the nation from attack, made some headway in winning back women who had been drifting toward Mr. Bush. Mr. Kerry led Mr. Bush 48 percent to 46 percent among women; last month Mr. Bush led among women 48 percent to 43 percent.
 The results show not only how closely divided the nation is, but also how clearly defined the differences are between the candidates, especially on foreign policy. Just under half of voters said both Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry would bring the right balance to judgments about when to go to war. But 46 percent said Mr. Bush would not be careful enough and 31 percent said Mr. Kerry would be too careful.
 The poll indicated that Americans continued to have doubts about both candidates. Mr. Bush's job approval rating, at 47 percent, was little changed from last month and close to what has traditionally been a danger zone for an incumbent seeking re-election. His approval ratings for his handling of foreign policy, Iraq and the economy were even lower, and a narrow majority of respondents, 51 percent, said the country was on the wrong track. 
 The poll suggested that the daily bloodshed in Iraq and Mr. Kerry's strategy of hammering away at Mr. Bush's handling of the war might be resonating among voters. Asked what kind of job Mr. Bush had done in anticipating what would happen in Iraq as a result of the war, 59 percent said he had done a poor job and 34 percent said a good job. A slight majority, 52 percent, said the United States had been too quick to go to war in Iraq, compared with 37 percent who said the timing was about right.
 But Mr. Bush maintained his reputation as an effective leader in confronting terrorism, with 57 percent of respondents saying they approved of his handling of the issue and 37 percent disapproving. Asked whether they thought of Mr. Bush as someone they would like personally, even if they did not approve of his policies, 61 percent said yes, versus 48 percent for Mr. Kerry. Asked whether both candidates have strong qualities of leadership, 62 percent said yes for Mr. Bush and 56 percent said yes for Mr. Kerry.
 Mr. Kerry continued to generate increased levels of enthusiasm for his candidacy among those who said they supported him, with 48 percent saying they strongly favored him, up from 40 percent last month. But, in a race that could hinge on turnout, Mr. Bush maintained a strong advantage on that measure, with 70 percent of his backers saying they strongly favored him, up from 63 percent.
 Fifty-five percent of voters said Mr. Bush had made clear what he wants to accomplish in the next four years, a five-point increase since last month, while 45 percent of voters said Mr. Kerry had a clear agenda, up seven points in the same period. 
 The poll found that 65 percent of voters did not think Mr. Bush had a clear plan for getting American troops out of Iraq, and that 59 percent of voters did not think Mr. Kerry had one. Half of voters said they thought Mr. Bush made the situation in Iraq sound better than it is, and 43 percent said Mr. Kerry made it sound worse.

How the Poll Was Conducted
 The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Friday through Sunday with 979 adults throughout the United States. Of these, 851 said they were registered to vote.
 The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country.
 Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
 The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variation in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, Hispanic origin, marital status, age and education.
 Based on the 2000 presidential vote, residents of heavily Republican counties, heavily Democratic counties, and politically competitive counties were weighted to their proper share of the population.
 Some findings regarding voting were also weighted in terms of an overall ''probable electorate,'' which uses responses to questions dealing with voting history, attention to the campaign and likelihood of voting in 2004 as a measure of the probability of respondents' turning out in November. 
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, overall results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
 For smaller subgroups the margin of sampling error is larger.
 In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.
 Complete questions and results are online at nytimes.com/politics.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Voter Perceptions of the Candidates''PERSONAL TRAITSVoters who . . . think the candidate has made it clear what he wants to accomplish in the next four years as president.Sept. 12-16BUSH: 50%KERRY: 38%Oct. 1-3BUSH: 55%KERRY: 45%. . . think the candidate says what he really believes rather than what he thinks people want to hear most of the time.Sept. 12-16BUSH: 55KERRY: 30Oct. 1-3BUSH: 59KERRY: 35FOREIGN AFFAIRSVoters who . . . think the candidate has developed a clear plan for dealing with the situation in Iraq.Sept. 12-16BUSH: *KERRY: *Oct. 1-3BUSH: 39%KERRY: 31%. . . have a lot of confidence that the candidate would make the right decisions protecting the country from terrorist attack.Sept. 12-16BUSH: 50%KERRY: 26%Oct. 1-3BUSH: 52KERRY: 39. . . have confidence in the candidate's ability to deal wisely with an international crisis.Sept. 12-16BUSH: 51KERRY: 32Oct. 1-3BUSH: 51KERRY: 41. . . think the candidate, when involving the U.S. in a war, will be . . .. . . too careful.Sept. 12-16BUSH: *KERRY: *Oct. 1-3BUSH: 4KERRY: 31. . . not careful enough.Sept. 12-16BUSH: *KERRY: *Oct. 1-3BUSH: 46KERRY: 13* Question was not askedBased on nationwide telephone interviews conducted Oct. 1-3, 2004, with 851 registered voters. (pg. A15)ChartVoters who have a favorable opinion of the candidate.BUSHSept. 12-16: 47%Oct. 1-3: 44%KERRYSept. 12-16: 31%Oct. 1-3: 40%(Source by The New York Times/CBS News Poll)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%) Presidential Election of 2004; New York Times/cbs News Poll; Public Opinion; Debating; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: RALPH NADER (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); DICK CHENEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Richard W Stevenson; Janet Elder; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Ralph Nader; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004



129 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Wright Makes the Most of New Life With the Braves

BYLINE: By RAY GLIER

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
Jaret Wright was kicked to the curb by the San Diego Padres on Aug. 29, 2003. He had arrived at Minute Maid Park in Houston but was put on waivers before the Padres' game with the Astros. He left the stadium in a cab.
 Wright was asked Tuesday in a news conference if he remembered standing on the curb outside the ballpark waiting for that cab, unemployed and with his career in jeopardy. 
 ''You don't know if I remember that?'' he answered, breaking into a wide smile.
 Of course, Wright remembered the most humiliating moment of his career.
 His start for the Braves on Wednesday in Game 1 of their National League division series against Houston might have just as much emotional significance for Wright as his release by the Padres. He will oppose Roger Clemens (18-4) in the opener of the three-of-five-game series with Houston.
 At 15-8 with a 3.28 earned run average, Wright has become the ace of the Atlanta staff. That is pretty strong stuff, considering the procession of Cy Young award winners the Braves had in the 1990's, with Tom Glavine, Greg Maddux and John Smoltz.
 ''I'm definitely appreciative of the door that opened up, and I'm enjoying it,'' said Wright, who started Game 7 of the 1997 World Series for Cleveland as a rookie, when he was considered one of baseball's brightest young stars.
 In the few hours after the Padres waived him, 15 N.L. teams passed on Wright, a right-hander who was trying to come back from two shoulder operations. The Braves were the last team to have a shot, and they grabbed him off waivers.
 Wright was then put in the Braves' bullpen the last month of the 2003 season and pitched well, including four shutout innings in the division series against the Cubs. Atlanta Manager Bobby Cox gave him a chance to become a starter in spring training; in April, Wright started his first game since September 2002. Since June 1, he has gone 12-3.
 ''I caught him in Cleveland when he wasn't good and I caught him here,'' Braves catcher Eddie Perez said. ''He wasn't healthy in Cleveland. And when he got here, he kept it simple with just the fastball and slider. He got away from the other pitches.''
 Wright, now 28, said the Braves preached location and movement and demanded that he stop trying to throw the ball through a wall the way he did when he was 21. Leo Mazzone, the Braves' pitching coach, even warned Wright that he risked a third shoulder operation if he continued to overthrow.
 ''Coming off an injury, you want to show people that you can still throw like you used to, as far as the radar gun,'' Wright said. ''I kind of got away from movement and location. The biggest thing we worked on when I got over here was throwing it to where you wanted it, instead of 110 percent and not knowing where it is going.''
 Wright going against Clemens, the former Yankee, adds some intrigue to the Houston-Atlanta series. The teams' meetings were less than compelling in division series in 1997, 1999 and 2001. Amid thousands of empty seats in Turner Field, the Braves won all three series with the Astros, winning 9 of 10 games.
 The series has been so uninviting that it has almost always been relegated to afternoon starts, far away from prime time. Uninspiring attendance at previous postseason games between the teams led the Braves to offer fans two free tickets to Thursday's game if they bought two tickets to Wednesday's game.
 The Braves, who won the N.L.'s weakest division with a 96-66 record, have not been to the World Series since 1999 and have been eliminated in the division series in three of the last four years.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jaret Wright, a right-handed pitcher, was 15-8 with a 3.28 earned run average in 32 starts for the Braves during the regular season. (Photo by John Bazemore/Associated Press)
 Wright, pitching against the Mets last month in New York, was put on waivers by San Diego last year. (Photo by Kathy Willens/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); TOURNAMENTS (72%); SPORTS AWARDS (71%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (69%) Baseball; Playoff Games

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); HOUSTON ASTROS (84%); NEW YORK METS (59%) Atlanta Braves; Houston Astros; San Diego Padres

PERSON: Ray Glier; Jaret Wright

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



130 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Index Shows Slower Growth in Service Industries

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
An index of service industries in the United States dropped to a 16-month low in September and suggested that high energy prices may limit the economic expansion.
 The Institute for Supply Management said yesterday that its gauge of nonmanufacturing industries like banking, construction and retailing fell to 56.7, the lowest reading since May 2003, from 58.2 in August. Economists had forecast that the gauge would rise to 59 in September, according to the median of 61 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. 
 The gauge has still shown expansion, as evidenced by readings higher than 50, for 18 straight months.
 Energy costs, hurricanes and transportation backlogs damped executives' outlooks last month, according to the survey, which represents businesses accounting for 85 percent of the economy. An increase in the purchasing managers' index of hiring suggests that a government report due out in three days will probably show that payrolls expanded last month.
 ''The data show some cooling in recent months, although the levels are still consistent with fairly strong growth,'' said Maury Harris, chief economist at UBS Securities in Stamford, Conn. ''The message is that growth is off its peak, but still solid.'' 
 The survey's employment index rose to 54.6, the highest since June, from 52.5. Nineteen percent of the executives surveyed said they had increased hiring during the month, up from 18 percent in August. The proportion reducing staff fell to 12 percent from 13 percent.
 The Labor Department is expected to report on Friday that the United States added 150,000 workers last month after a gain of 144,000 in August, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, an acceleration from a midyear lull.
 The index of new orders was little changed at 58.5, down slightly from 58.6 the month before. The measure of export orders rose to 55.5 from 55.0. Construction, entertainment and wholesale companies were among those reporting export gains. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); NEW ORDERS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); WEATHER (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); EXPORT TRADE (62%) United States Economy; Service Industries; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Institute for Supply Management

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



131 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13

Iraqi Premier's Speech Presents Darker Picture
Prime Minister Ayad Allawi gave a sobering account of the threat posed by the insurgency in his first speech before the interim national assembly. The American military said it had launched its second major offensive of the last week in a sweep across the Euphrates River south of Baghdad. A1

A reassessment by the Central Intelligence Agency has cast doubt on a central piece of evidence used by the Bush administration before the invasion of Iraq to draw links between Saddam Hussein's government and the Al Qaeda terrorist network, government officials said. A13

A court of Iraq's interim government brought criminal charges against a prominent politician for attending an anti-terrorism conference in Israel and publicly suggesting that Iraq should open talks with Israel. A12

A House subcommittee investigating the U.N.'s oil-for-food program in Iraq expanded its investigation to the Bush administration's postwar stewardship of Iraq's oil money. A13

Militants Killed in Gaza
An Israeli helicopter fired two missiles at a car in Gaza City, killing a senior member of the radical group Islamic Jihad and his bodyguard, Palestinians in Gaza said. A3

NATO Warns on Afghan Vote
NATO's top general said allied forces were girding for a surge of attacks by Taliban fighters and others in the last days before Afghanistan's presidential elections. A4

OBITUARIES A27

Rodney Dangerfield
The paunchy, goggle-eyed comedian was 82. His fidgety delivery and sad-sack catch phrase ''I don't get no respect'' brought him fame. A27

NATIONAL A16-26

Cheney and Edwards Debate Iraq Invasion
Vice President Dick Cheney defended the Bush Administration's record on Iraq in a strikingly personal and bitter debate. Senator John Edwards fired back with a wide-ranging assault on the administration's honesty and competency. A1

Troops in Iraq Called Insufficient
The former top administrator in Iraq, L. Paul Bremer III, stunned the White House by saying in two recent speeches that President Bush had not sent enough troops to Iraq to secure the country. A22

Flu Vaccine Shortage Expected
Nearly half of the nation's expected supply of flu vaccine will not be available this winter because the British government has suspended the manufacturing license at the factory in Liverpool that makes it, federal officials said. A1

Bill to Resume Draft Fails
Trying to quiet fears of a return of the draft, House Republicans brought to the floor a Democratic-sponsored proposal to reinstate mandatory military service and presided over its overwhelming defeat on a vote of 402 to 2. A16

Panel Proposals Falter in House
Chances of any sort of bipartisan agreement in the House to enact major recommendations of the Sept. 11 commission faded, with Democrats joining with members of the commission to denounce a version of the bill being championed by the House Republican leadership. A19

EDUCATION B7

Academic Spending Gap Cited
After narrowing in better economic times, the financial gap between poor and wealthy school districts has widened, a report has found. A19

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Linguistic Isolation Found To Shield Immigrant Youth
A report suggests that the linguistic isolation of many immigrant children helps protect them from higher rates of obesity, asthma and adolescent risk-taking that afflict native-born and Americanized children. B3

Gotti Is Denied Bail
Rejecting a defense lawyer's argument that his client now prefers writing children's books to extortion and racketeering, a federal judge denied bail for John A. Gotti, who is accused of trying to murder Curtis Sliwa, the sharp-tongued New York radio talk show host, in 1992. B4

Release Tactics Questioned
Several people who were asked to write letters of support for Guy J. Velella say they had no idea his lawyers were going to use those letters to help him get out of jail. B1

Panel Approves Ikea Plans
A City Council panel approved plans for what is likely to become the city's first Ikea, along the Brooklyn waterfront in Red Hook. B1

FASHION B8-9

ARTS E1-12

DINING OUT F1-16

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-7

Twins, Red Sox, Cardinals Win
Minnesota beat the Yankees, 2-0, in Game 1 of their division series. Boston beat the Anaheim Angels, 9-3, in their series. St. Louis beat the Los Angeles Dodgers, 8-3. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Obstacles for Tax Overhaul
President Bush has vowed to lead a bipartisan effort to overhaul the personal income tax and make it ''simpler, fairer and pro-growth.'' But almost all experts say that accomplishing any fundamental change will be difficult. C1

Acquittal for Ink Expert
Larry F. Stewart, the Secret Service ink expert who was accused of lying on the stand in the obstruction of justice trial of Martha Stewart, was acquitted of two charges of perjury. C2

Fannie Mae Vulnerable
Investigations into the accounting practices of Fannie Mae, the mortgage giant, have provided its adversaries an opportunity to challenge its power and influence. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A28-29

Editorials: The running mates debate; cover-up on clean air; a flu vaccine fiasco.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, William Safire.

Crossword E4
TV Listings E12
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); AL-QAEDA (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); TALIBAN (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); DRIVERS LICENSE SUSPENSION & REVOCATION (74%); EVIDENCE (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); VACCINES (64%); DRUG SHORTAGES (60%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%); INFLUENZA (60%); ANTIVIRALS (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (56%); RELIGION (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); HEZBOLLAH (55%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (55%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN EDWARDS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (96%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



132 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Financial Gap Is Widening For Rich and Poor Schools

BYLINE: By GREG WINTER

 BODY:
After narrowing in better economic times, the financial gap between poor and wealthy school districts has widened, a new report has found. 
 State and local money account for more than 90 percent of all education spending, but high poverty districts typically received $868 less per student from those sources than their counterparts with relatively few poor children did in 2002, the latest year for which data is available, the report found. As recently as 2000, the gap was down to $728. 
 The disparities were significantly more stark in some of the nation's more populous states. In Illinois, for example, high poverty districts received $2,026 less per child than those with the fewest poor students, the report found, even though researchers largely agree that it costs more to educate low-income children. In New York, the gap was $2,040, the largest in the nation. 
 The findings, released today by the Education Trust, a research group that supports the federal No Child Left Behind law, showed that whatever momentum had gathered to close the monetary gap between districts in recent years quickly dispersed as state budgets started facing serious challenges. 
 By 2000, tax receipts were hearty and schools of all kinds reaped the benefits. Districts with high concentrations of poor students often received slightly bigger increases in state aid than wealthier ones. Though parity was still elusive, the report found, the gap between districts with large numbers of poor students and those without them had begun to narrow. 
 But as a recession took hold, states slowed their education spending, leaving local governments to take on more of the burden, the report found. Wealthier districts made up for much of the slowdown by raising property taxes, a response few high poverty areas could manage. As a consequence, the gap started expanding again and now stands at its widest point in at least five years, the report found. 
 ''A time like this is when the states would really like to be able to look to the federal government to help lessen that gap,'' said Scott Young, senior policy specialist at National Conference of State Legislatures, adding that the report's findings seemed accurate. ''But now states have to use their federal money to meet the requirements of No Child Left Behind.'' 
 Though it is a small piece of the entire puzzle, federal aid helps districts educate poor students nationwide. Moreover, the group says, federal assistance is not supposed to substitute for state efforts.
 ''The law is not designed so that states could just shortchange high poverty districts and the federal government would make up the difference,'' said Kevin Carey, the report's author. ''It's to provide additional money, on top of what the states are already doing.''
 Part of the reason, Mr. Carey contends, is that it costs more to educate poor students. In fact, after factoring in the extra costs of overcoming the effects of poverty, districts with large proportions of poor students would have needed $1,350 more per child than they received in 2002 to achieve parity, the report found. 
 Not all states have widened the gap. In New Jersey, court rulings have forced increases in spending on poor students, and the disparity between districts now favors poor ones. Alaska, Delaware, Connecticut and other states have managed to reduce or reverse their gaps. 


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Disparity Among School Districts''In 25 states, wealthier school districts had more state and local financing available in 2001-2002 than did high-poverty districts.Difference in financing per student for wealthier districts compared with high poverty districts:Map of the United States shows the difference per state.(Source by The Education Trust)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%) Education and Schools; Research; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: Education Trust 

PERSON: Greg Winter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



133 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Africa Earned Its Debt

BYLINE: By Robert Guest. 
Robert Guest, Africa editor for The Economist, is the author of ''The Shackled Continent: Power, Corruption and African Lives.''

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG 

 BODY:
When the price of crude oil hit $50 a barrel last week, sending ripples of anxiety around the world, analysts blamed a young Nigerian man with a machine gun and a speedboat. He is Mujahid Dokubo-Asari, a militia boss who is threatening to start a civil war and shut down the Nigerian oil industry, which is the fifth-largest supplier of crude oil to the United States. He will do this, he says, unless his people, the Ijaw, who live on top of Nigeria's oil fields, are granted autonomy. By ''autonomy,'' he means ''control of the oil money.'' Nigerian officials dismiss Mr. Asari as a gangster. But if so, he is a gangster who has friends in the ruling party and is taken seriously enough that Nigeria's president, Olusegun Obasanjo, felt obliged to sit down and negotiate with him last week. Mr. Obasanjo is a well-meaning fellow, but his job is made more difficult because he is surrounded by crooks. 
 Nigeria, like much of Africa, ought to be rich but is miserably poor. The main reason is that rather than striving to create an environment in which their people can freely seek prosperity and happiness, most African governments have chosen instead to rob them. This culture of criminality has spread throughout the ruling class, down to the Nigerian border guard who threatened to beat up my driver last month if I didn't give him a dollar, to the bribe-hungry Cameroonian police officers who stopped a truck I was riding in 47 times in 300 miles. 
 This corruption makes it hard to do business in Africa. Manufacturers need smooth roads, reliable electricity and efficient ports. But too often in Africa, the roads are craterous because someone has looted the maintenance budget, the power fails because the state monopoly utility company is staffed with politicians' idiot cousins, and the customs officers hang onto your goods for weeks in the hope that you will bribe them to hurry up. In only two African countries -- South Africa and Botswana -- is it relatively easy to do business, a recent World Bank study found. For bright, energetic Africans, it is often easier to get rich by joining the government than by creating honest wealth. 
 That is why the debt relief proposal debated over the weekend in Washington by officials from the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Group of 7 nations would be not be a panacea for Africa. Faster debt relief is a good idea for countries with relatively clean, pragmatic governments that pursue sensible economic policies, like Mozambique and Uganda. But debt relief cannot help the worst-governed countries like Zimbabwe and Angola because their leaders are likely to squander the money it frees up. In those places, extra cash props up despots. 
 This is a more complex picture than many debt-relief campaigners will admit. It may be, as Oxfam complains, that Zambia cannot hire enough teachers because the monetary fund has told its government not to run too large a budget deficit. But that is not the whole story. The main reason Zambia is bankrupt is that it has been ruled with startling incompetence and venality; for example, its previous president, Frederick Chiluba, is facing multiple charges of embezzlement. 
 Outsiders cannot fundamentally change the way Africa is governed. That is a task for Africans themselves, and some are rising to the challenge. In Nigeria, President Obasanjo has hired a team of technocrats to curb corruption by making the public accounts more transparent. They are doing their best, but one of them told me that probably no more than one powerful Nigerian in 20 supports the clean-up. That in a nutshell is why Africans are poor: their leaders keep them that way. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); BRIBERY (86%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (84%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); BUDGETS (74%); POLITICS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); CORRUPTION (69%); ETHICS (69%); EXTERNAL DEBT (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Ethics; Politics and Government; Credit; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; International Monetary Fund; Group of Seven

PERSON: Robert Guest

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) NIGERIA (98%); AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); CAMEROON (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); UGANDA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



134 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Panel Approves Plan by Ikea To Open Store In Red Hook

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
The notion of shopping for minimalist furniture while nibbling Swedish meatballs within view of the Statue of Liberty took a major step forward yesterday as a City Council panel approved a plan for what is likely to become New York City's first Ikea, along the Brooklyn waterfront in Red Hook.
 The approval came despite opposition from some residents to the Swedish furniture giant's plopping a 22-acre mall on the waterfront in a once-neglected industrial area that has caught the eye of developers in recent years. To help sell its plan, the company included several inducements designed to curb traffic and help the neighborhood, including free weekend ferry service from Manhattan, enhanced transit connections and the promise of jobs for residents. 
 The Ikea plan received unanimous approval from the Council's zoning and franchise subcommittee. And open support from City Council leaders practically guarantees passage by the full Council next week. 
 ''I am very proud to be part of the first Ikea store that is coming into the city of New York,'' said Melinda Katz, the chairwoman of the Land Use Committee, which is scheduled to approve the project today. ''I think that it is rare that as chairs of this committee that we're able to actually do something substantive on the economy alone that I think will be extremely helpful to this city, and hopefully other corporations and other companies will follow suit.''
 The approval comes at a time when the future of the Brooklyn waterfront appears to be taking shape. A Fairway supermarket is under construction near the Ikea site, while Bloomberg administration officials have been formulating a plan that would put a cruise ship terminal nearby and potentially move the Brooklyn Brewery, complete with a beer garden, to a neighboring pier.
 In addition, the city's long-term trash management plan, due out tomorrow, will resolve questions about whether marine transfer stations in Brooklyn will be rebuilt and put into service. And this week, the City Planning Commission began its review of an enormous proposal to rezone parts of Greenpoint and Williamsburg to encourage residential, commercial and recreational development.
 In its first urban foray in the metropolitan region, Ikea plans to build a 346,000-square-foot blue-and-yellow box on the old New York Shipyard lot, bordered by Van Brunt, Halleck, Beard and Columbia Streets and the waters of the Erie Basin. Ikea officials said the complex would include parking, three additional structures for other stores or restaurants and a 6.3-acre public esplanade, which in a video tour by the company appeared lushly landscaped.
 In response to concerns about accessibility and traffic congestion, the company pledged to pay for several improvements and amenities, like the free weekend ferry service to the store from Manhattan along with free shuttle buses from subway stations in Downtown Brooklyn, at Smith and Ninth Streets and at Fourth Avenue and Ninth Street. There are also plans for an extension of the B-61 bus to the store from its current terminus a few blocks away at Van Brunt Street. The company has also committed itself to helping improve several dangerous intersections in the area.
 ''There hasn't been an investment of this size since World War II,'' said Sara Gonzalez, the councilwoman who represents the neighborhood. She added that although the property had sat fallow for decades, ''no one ever stepped forward and had a financial commitment for that site until Ikea put their proposal and their money on the table.''
 But those concessions did little to quiet some opposition to the project, which has pitted homeowners against public housing residents. The issue even divided residents of the Red Hook Houses, which accounts for about 75 percent of the neighborhood's population.
 The company had invested heavily in building support for the store among the public housing tenants, in part by promising 500 to 600 jobs in an area that has struggled to inch its way out of blight. Ikea officials say they plan to create a training program to prepare residents of the 11231 ZIP code to apply for the jobs and would then accept their applications before others'.
 But opponents argued that the company had misled people with false expectations because Ikea officials would not make any guarantees about whom they would ultimately hire.
 ''If the implied employment promises don't materialize,'' said Charles H. Davis, a private housing tenant, ''there is likely to be a pronounced increase in alienation by the most deprived section of the community, especially of unemployed young men who will legitimately feel that they have been deceived.''
 Some of the proponents, who in the end held sway with the Council subcommittee, saw the issue differently. Saying that she ''would be a fool'' to assert that all of the jobs will go to Red Hook residents, Pauline Blake, a member of Community Board 6, said that there was value in training people so that they would then have the ability and self-esteem to apply for other jobs. ''What else would they do if they didn't have this opportunity?'' she asked. ''They would be where they are today, on the street corners of Red Hook.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rendering of proposed Ikea store in Red Hook, Brooklyn. The company says it will work with the city to improve transportation to the site. (Photo by Ikea)(pg. B6)Map of Red Hook highlighting the proposed site of the new Ikea. (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ZONING (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); MARINE VESSELS (74%); SHIPBUILDING (74%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (74%); FERRIES (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); CRUISES (68%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (66%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (63%); BREWERIES (63%); DRINKING PLACES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INGKA HOLDING BV (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (95%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



135 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: REBUILDING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Troops Proceed in Iraq Without Shot Fired

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: SAMAWA, Iraq, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
Whenever a Japanese convoy leaves its base here in southern Iraq, the armored vehicles are so spotless that they appear to have just rolled out of a Tokyo car showroom into this crumbling Shiite Muslim town on the Euphrates. 
 They lack the dents and dirt of other nations' vehicles. Perhaps that is because of the Japanese troops' attention to maintenance or perhaps, as the Iraqis here say, their increasing tendency to stay inside their base with the violence rising outside.
 Seven months into Japan's first mission since the end of World War II into a country with active fighting, its ground troops have succeeded in not firing a single shot. Though of little military significance, Japan's small contingent of about 550 troops has provided the Bush administration with diplomatic support and laid the groundwork for Japan's own transformation. 
 The mission in Iraq is providing a decisive push to changes under way in Japan, including the revision of its postwar, American-imposed Constitution, which renounces war, and the transformation of its Self-Defense Forces into a real military. For the first time at a United Nations General Assembly session, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi recently used Japan's mission to Iraq to argue for a permanent Security Council seat.
 For their deployment, the Japanese commanders chose Samawa, in a Shiite province long neglected by the government of Saddam Hussein. Because of the strength of its tribal networks, Muthanna Province remains one of the most peaceful in Iraq. Samawa, a small town of dilapidated buildings and neighborhoods with open sewers, remains one of the few places outside the Kurdish north where a foreigner can still venture to eat out at a restaurant. 
 Still, there are risks. In recent months insurgents have launched several mortar attacks against the Japanese base, as well a Dutch base here. Two Dutch soldiers have been killed. A single Japanese death could turn opinion in Japan against the mission. Earlier this year, Japan's government criticized several Japanese civilians who had been taken hostage for complicating their country's finely calibrated role in Iraq. 
 Here, officials and ordinary Iraqis express growing disappointment at Japan's reconstruction efforts. As the gap between local expectations and Japan's relatively modest projects widens, disappointment could turn into hostility. Surrounded in his office by 18 tribal leaders who complained that they lacked the electricity needed to irrigate their farmlands, the governor of Muthanna, Muhammad Ali Hassan, said he had sent complaint letters to Prime Minister Koizumi.
 ''Regarding the things that have been produced, I am not satisfied,'' the governor said. ''That is what pushed me to say that we cannot stand this situation any longer.''
 Samawa's police chief, Karim al-Zayad, said: ''We are waiting for big projects from the Japanese. What they have done is not an answer to our problems. It does not express Japan's economic might.''
 So far, Japanese-hired Iraqi contractors finished rehabilitating four schools and two roads, and laid grass at a soccer stadium. Japanese medical advisers regularly visit four local hospitals. The Japanese troops' main activity consists of pumping water from a canal and purifying it with nine machines inside their base. City water trucks then deliver the water, enough to provide 10,500 people about three gallons a day each.
 Col. Goro Matsumura, the Japanese commander, said in an interview that his troops were planning to repair seven more schools and seven more roads, as well as a gymnasium. ''The support that Japan provides is extremely careful, and the workmanship is very good,'' Colonel Matsumura said. ''That's the reputation we have with the local population.''
 Although the overall insecurity in Iraq has halted reconstruction projects by the Americans and others, Colonel Matsumura said it had not affected Japanese plans. 
 Japan's plans, though, were always exceeded by local expectations.
 ''When we heard the Japanese were coming,'' said Muhammad Abdul Hadi, 28, owner of an electronics shop along the Euphrates, ''we believed the gates of paradise had opened to us. We dreamed of big projects that would transform Samawa into a luxurious gulf city. We know that Japan is a technologically advanced country, matching America. But what they have done so far any Iraqi contractor could do.''
 Even Iraqis who call such dreams unrealistic are hoping that Japan will bring fundamental changes.
 At the General Hospital here, Dr. Hassan al-Daghir, 51, a general surgeon, said he expected Japan to build a new power station, a water treatment plant and a sewage system for the whole city.
 At the Samawa Secondary School for Girls, recently renovated by the Japanese, Nahla Abdul Ridha, 51, a chemistry teacher, said: ''The school is now beautiful. But we have not seen anything significant in the rest of the city. We wanted to get some of the Japanese technology so that our children would feel proud about living here.''
 For Tokyo the mission is much more about increasing its international standing. During the Persian Gulf war of 1991, Japan was widely derided in the United States for contributing only money to the coalition. So last year, Japan passed a special law allowing its troops to be deployed to Iraq in a noncombat role.
 ''The Japanese government has chosen this very public way to help Iraq so as to show Japan's face,'' Colonel Matsumura said. By doing so, he added, the mission would show that ''Japan, as a country, will not only give money toward reconstruction and humanitarian work, but that Japanese will also work and sweat to help stabilize an unstable region of the world.''
 The mission has pleased President Bush, who has frequently mentioned Japan and Mr. Koizumi in his speeches on Iraq. But with the growing discontent over the Japanese reconstruction efforts, the local perception of the Japanese troops has begun changing, as underscored by the recent spread of the unfounded rumor that the Japanese are building secret bases for the Americans.
 Ahmed Jawad, 28, owner of the Madina al Munawara electronics shop, said: ''The Japanese said they came here for humanitarian work, but where are the big projects? The truth is that they are helping the Americans occupy Iraq.''
 In an interview, Ghazi al-Zargani, 34, the local representative of the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, whose followers have staged uprisings against American forces, said Mr. Sadr's organization had regarded the Japanese troops in a positive light because ''Japan was also occupied by the United States and suffered devastation in Hiroshima.''
 ''But,'' he added, ''since they have done little to help the people here, we are now re-examining whether they are a humanitarian or military force.''
 The Japanese have taken ads on television and in newspapers to underscore the noncombat nature of the Japanese troops. They have been extremely cautious about being associated with the American-led military campaign, avoiding, for instance, being seen in public with other countries' forces.
 Outside Iraq, Tokyo has been strengthening its military ties with Washington. It has committed itself to the United States ballistic missile defense shield and, in jointly developing and producing parts for the system, is likely to overturn a longstanding ban on arms exports.
 In a further shift away from pacifism, there is growing consensus inside Japan to revise its peace Constitution, including Article Nine renouncing war, and its Self-Defense Forces. Mr. Koizumi has said he wants the forces to be recognized as a real military, and the United States, which wants Japan to carry a greater share of America's military responsibilities, has urged Tokyo on. In August, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said Japan would be unable to fulfill the role of a permanent member of the Security Council unless it revised Article Nine.
 ''It's understandable that the Japanese have to take care of their ties with the United States by sending a small force here to tell the American government, 'We are with you,''' said Naji Jabbar Kashi, 49, a philosophy professor at the Muthanna College of Education and a playwright. ''But I hope the Japanese won't forget us. They rarely leave their base nowadays. We don't see them very much. Did you see the open gutter outside my home? The Japanese forces need to do something big, so that they will be remembered long after they leave here. They could build a power plant, or sewage system or maybe even a subway.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Japan hired Iraqi workers to renovate the Samawa Secondary School for Girls, and even provided a mural. (Photo by Norimitsu Onishi/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 At the Japanese troops' base in Samawa, Iraqis filled a tanker truck with purified water for the town's people. (Photo by Norimitsu Onishi/The New York Times)(pg. A12)Map of Iraq highlighting Samawa: Samawa is a relatively peaceful provincial capital in southern Iraq. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (87%); RELIGION (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); RESTAURANTS (63%); HOSTAGE TAKING (62%); POLICE FORCES (55%) United States International Relations; Shiite Muslims; Water; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Norimitsu Onishi

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) IRAQ (95%); JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (92%) Iraq; Japan; Samawa (Iraq); Muthanna Province (Iraq); Netherlands; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



136 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; COMMODITIES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: With Focus on Storm Losses, Oil Futures Rise Further

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
Oil prices climbed above $51 a barrel on Tuesday as traders focused on supplies from the Gulf of Mexico, where production is still suffering delays in the wake of Hurricane Ivan.
 Oil futures for November delivery climbed $1.18, or 2.4 percent, to settle at $51.09 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Crude oil prices have risen more than 60 percent over the last year. 
 Three weeks after Hurricane Ivan passed over the Florida Panhandle, normal production in the gulf region continues to be held back by damage from the storm. Many analysts underestimated how long it would take to make repairs and get oil flowing again.
 ''It's going to take a significant amount of time to bring production back on line,'' said Jan Stuart, head of energy research at Fimat USA, a brokerage unit of Societe Generale. For oil prices, Mr. Stuart said, ''it's just one more reason to inch things up.''
 Last week, clashes between the army and rebels in Nigeria helped push prices above $50 a barrel for the first time.
 With most oil-producing countries stretched to their limits, the world has little spare capacity to make up for disruptions. The production squeeze comes as global demand for oil is growing at twice the pace of last year.
 Members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries are producing at or near their full capacity to help curb prices. The group, which accounts for nearly half the world's exports, is pumping about 30 million barrels a day, its highest output in 25 years. 
 Over the weekend, finance ministers and central bankers from leading industrial nations, meeting in Washington for a Group of 7 conference, warned that high oil prices could hurt recovering economies. 
 Still, so far there have been no signs of demand being slowed by higher prices.
 The Gulf of Mexico accounts for a fourth of the United States' domestic oil production. Its output is still short by 450,000 barrels a day, according to the federal Minerals Management Service. 
 In all, some 15.3 million barrels of oil have not been produced because of the storm, or 2.5 percent of the region's annual output. The disruption has also reduced natural gas production by 68 billion cubic feet, or 1.5 percent of the region's yearly total. 
 The Minerals Management Service is still compiling an estimate of how many of the 4,000 platforms in the Gulf of Mexico have been hit, a spokeswoman for the agency, Deborah Winbush, said. Bloomberg News reported that Hurricane Ivan had severely damaged 40 platforms. 
 ''A lot of companies are still doing underwater assessment,'' Ms. Winbush said, ''and for safety reasons they want to be sure that everything is intact and safe'' before resuming full production.


GRAPHIC: Graph ''COMMODITIES'' tracks oil prices (near-month contract), since April 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); FUTURES (92%); HURRICANES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); WEATHER (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); MINING OUTPUT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (70%); ENERGY RESEARCH (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (63%); CENTRAL BANKS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Ivan (Storm); Production

COMPANY: NEWEDGE GROUP (58%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (56%); GLE (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (79%) Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



137 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET -- Connecticut; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Hartford TV Station Cuts a Tax Deal to Stay in the City

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

DATELINE: HARTFORD 

 BODY:
For almost 50 years, WFSB-TV, Channel 3, has been on Constitution Plaza here. So when the station started looking at land outside Hartford for a new studio, it threw a bit of a scare into city officials.
 ''We're the capital city,'' said John F. Palmieri, the city's director for development services. ''We're the corporate and business center of the state, and we need that media presence here. There was a lot of concern about the signal it would send if WFSB decided to leave.'' 
 Mayor Eddie A. Perez met with Elden A. Hale Jr., the general manager of WFSB, to propose various sites and inducements for the television station to stay. Now, after agreeing to an innovative land swap with some concessions on city taxes, WFSB plans to start construction next year on a $20 million, 60,000-square-foot studio with about 150 parking spaces on a parking lot at the north end of downtown. 
 City officials cite the deal as important not only for all the symbolic reasons but also for its potential as a pioneering development in a previously neglected part of Hartford.
 Mr. Hale, who is also a vice president of the Meredith Corporation, the media holding company that owns WFSB, said that even with the tax breaks, the new building will cost the station more than it would have paid in the suburbs. 
 The 3.4-acre site obtained in the swap, however, is only about half the size of the one that Mr. Hale was considering in Rocky Hill.
 ''The site we're getting is smaller than we would have liked,'' Mr. Hale said, ''but we can make it work, and I think it's important that we stay in Hartford.'' 
 WFSB, a CBS affiliate, which originally began transmitting as WTIC-TV in the 1950's, moved into its current four-story building at 3 Constitution Plaza in 1961.
 The television station had made no secret that it was scouting locations in Rocky Hill, a few minutes south of Hartford on Interstate 91. Rocky Hill's town manager, Barbara R. Gilbert, took the loss stoically. ''To snag something from the city would have been quite a coup, obviously, but we can't compete with the kind of tax breaks and other incentives Hartford can offer,'' she said.
 WFSB's deal calls for the station to pay $800,000 for the 3.4 acres at Main and Trumbull Streets. The land has been ground-level parking for more than 30 years and though it has been mentioned as a possible site for a sports arena or new City Hall, nothing has come of that speculation. 
 When WFSB opens the building in 2007, it will turn over its existing studio site to the city, and property taxes on the new studio will be phased in over seven years, resulting in an abatement of about $1 million.
 Mr. Palmieri said the arrangement would eventually result in more tax revenue because while WFSB is expected to pay about $325,000 in taxes the first year, down from $417,500 on its current building, the taxes will increase to $775,000 by the seventh year. 
 The deal also provides the city with prime real estate a block from the huge state-financed Adriaen's Landing project, now under construction, which consists of a convention center, hotel, science center and retail and residential development.
 Mark K. McGovern, acting executive director of the Hartford Economic Development Commission, said the WFSB investment was part of a surge in development announced in the city after the state committed itself to finance Adriaen's Landing. His organization estimates that there is more than $2 billion in development under way in the city, which had languished for years as businesses, residents and even the Hartford Whalers hockey team departed. 
 ''We're seeing a lot of investment in the smaller buildings downtown, piggybacking on that state investment,'' Mr. McGovern said. ''There's a lot of new restaurants, new residential, and where the retailers left years ago, they're coming back. The past few years we've seen more than 100 small businesses open in the city each year.''
 Nearly as important as the WFSB investment, officials say, is the location of its site. The acreage on Main Street is a crucial parcel just to the north of Interstate 84, an east-west highway that has long seemed like a physical barrier between the revitalization taking place downtown and the low-income neighborhoods of the North End. 
 ''No one wanted to be the first in, up at that end of the city,'' Mr. Palmieri said. ''In terms of the amount of WFSB's investment, it's not huge, but it's reconnecting the North End and downtown. There's this no-man's land at that end of the city, and putting this new complex down there will bridge the two areas. It makes a statement.''
 Dean C. Pagani, a spokesman for the Capital City Economic Development Authority, which oversees state investment in the city, said: ''We view the whole situation as very positive. Channel 3 stays in the city; they build a new building; it connects the North End to Main Street; and it frees up a potentially very valuable piece or property for a better use.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: After almost 50 years, WFSB is moving from 3 Constitution Plaza, above, to the north end of downtown Hartford. The TV station will build a 60,000-square-foot studio on a 3.4-acre site at Main and Trumbull Streets, which has been a parking lot for more than 30 years (Photographs by Steve Miller for The New York Times)Maps of Hartford, Connecticut, highlighting the future home of WFSB: A new TV station will be in a previously neglected part of Hartford.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); MAYORS (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (68%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (60%) Television; Television; Taxation; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties

COMPANY: MEREDITH CORP (67%)

ORGANIZATION: Wfsb Channel 3 (Hartford)

TICKER: MDP (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (67%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (67%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (67%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (96%) CONNECTICUT, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Hartford (Conn) 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



138 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: The Next Green Revolution

BYLINE: By Pedro Sanchez. 
Pedro Sanchez, a 2004 MacArthur fellow, directs the Tropical Agriculture Program of the Earth Institute at Columbia University.

 BODY:
Africa is hungry and Americans would like to help. But we've been helping the wrong way -- by providing emergency food aid rather than enabling African farmers to produce more food. Last year the United States generously gave $500 million of emergency food aid to Ethiopia to help people survive the drought year. And how much did we provide to African farmers to help them be more productive over the long run? A small fraction of that amount -- $4 million.
 As a result of the Green Revolution in the 1960's, 70's and 80's, crop yields soared in India, China and Latin America, enabling them to break free of extreme hunger and recurrent famine. Indeed, these agricultural changes allowed countries like China and India to become the emerging markets they are today. 
 Tropical Africa -- which stretches from the southern edge of the Sahara to the Limpopo River on the border of South Africa -- is finally ready for its own Green Revolution. Crop yields there are miniscule, an average of 1,500 pounds of cereals per acre compared with 2,300 pounds in India and 4,900 pounds in China. 
 For better harvests, Africa's farmers need four things: nutrients for the soil, which can be provided by both mineral and organic fertilizers; small-scale irrigation and technologies for collecting rainwater; sturdier, higher-yield seeds; and a corps of master farmers, trained in up-to-date agricultural techniques, who could be posted in villages and would be able to provide advice. By introducing these measures, Africans could triple food production by 2015. 
 Unlike the Green Revolution of the 60's, an African Green Revolution doesn't have to be based on technologies and practices that hurt the environment. Land can be reclaimed not only through appropriate fertilization but through more environmentally sensitive techniques. For starters, there's agro-forestry, which involves planting trees that replenish the soil with nutrients like nitrogen. Farmers could also learn low-till or no-till farming techniques and be encouraged to plant pest-tolerant crops, which would cut down on insecticide and pesticide use. 
 What's more, small-scale irrigation projects like ones under way in northern Ethiopia can bring water to parched areas more effectively and economically than the large, expensive dam projects of old. Finally, after soil and water are taken care of, biotechnology can help, by fortifying African food crops against droughts and pests, and by increasing the nutritional content of staple foods. 
 A rise in crop yields would do more than end hunger. Raising the productivity of Africa's villages would also raise the status of the women on the continent. Women do much of the farming in Africa today, growing 80 percent of the food there -- and they work mostly without tools or modern technologies. If farming was easier, women would be freer to find work off the farm, more girls would be able to stay in school and children would have better food to eat. History has shown that women's empowerment in turn leads to lower population growth and to advances in children's health and education. In addition, using locally grown foods in feeding programs for infants and children will generate additional demand, helping African agriculture to strengthen itself.
 Given the possible rewards of African renewal, the price tag is small. Key investments on the order of $50 per person per year in tropical African villages would put the continent on the path to long-term sustainable development. Additional annual aid from the developed world might therefore be around $25 billion, a small fraction of what we spend over the long run on emergency food aid, disease epidemics and fighting terrorism and violence in failed states. 
 If we take these simple steps -- and promote good governance in African countries -- the continent has the potential to go from basket case to trading partner. A sign I saw at a Florida bait shop says it all: ''Give people a fish and they will eat for a day; teach people how to fish and they will eat for their lifetime and they will buy fishing equipment.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); CROP PRODUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DROUGHT (89%); FAMINE (79%); NUTRITION (78%); INSECTICIDES (78%); PESTICIDES (77%); FERTILIZERS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (71%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (68%); IRRIGATION (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%) Agriculture; Food; Foreign Aid ; Production; Women; Farmers

PERSON: Pedro Sanchez

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); CHINA (93%); ETHIOPIA (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



139 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices and Growth Data Drag Share Prices Down

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks closed mostly lower yesterday as record oil prices and economic data showing slower-than-expected growth last month weighed on the markets.
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 38.86 points, or 0.38 percent, at 10,177.68. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended down 0.69 point, or 0.06 percent, at 1,134.48. The Nasdaq composite index closed up 3.10 points, or 0.16 percent, at 1,955.50. 
 The American International Group, the world's largest insurer by market value, dragged on the Dow and the S.&P. 500. A.I.G. is facing a possible lawsuit by United States securities regulators over actions and statements it made related to a major banking client. A.I.G. shares fell 3 percent, to $66.50.
 Crude oil ended above $51 a barrel for the first time as production in the Gulf of Mexico recovered slowly after Hurricane Ivan hit the region three weeks ago. Energy stocks, including Exxon Mobil, ConocoPhillips and ChevronTexaco, were among the gainers in the S.&P. 500.
 Exxon Mobil rose 40 cents, or almost 1 percent, to $49.32, while ConocoPhillips closed at a 52-week high, with its shares up $2.03, or 2.4 percent, to $86.70. ChevronTexaco hit a 52-week high during the session, but eased somewhat to close with a gain of 59 cents, or 1.1 percent, at $54.45.
 Earlier, data on the services sector showed that growth slowed last month. The Institute for Supply Management's nonmanufacturing survey for September showed its index of activity slipped to 56.7. Economists had expected the index to rise to 59 from 58.2 in the previous month.
 A number above 50 indicates growth, while a figure below that denotes contraction in the sector, which accounts for about 80 percent of the United States economy.
 On the employment front, a report from Challenger, Gray & Christmas said planned job cuts soared to an eight-month high in September while new hiring rose only slightly.
 Chiron, which makes half the flu vaccine used in the United States, fell 16 percent, to $37.98 as the company said it would not supply any vaccine for the coming flu season because of problems at its plant in Britain.
 Medimmune, which makes a flu vaccine called FluMist nasal spray, rose 5.8 percent, to $25.78, helping the Nasdaq. 
 Companies including the heavy equipment maker Caterpillar, the aerospace company United Technologies and the diversified manufacturer 3M, which are sensitive to swings in the economy, weighed on the Dow.
 Caterpillar fell 1 percent, or 88 cents, to $80.37; United Technologies closed down 79 cents, or 0.8 percent, at $93.76; and 3M slipped 18 cents, or 0.2 percent, to $78.76.
 Pulte Homes, the home builder, fell nearly 7 percent, to $52.45, after the company issued an earnings warning Monday, citing softness in the once-booming Las Vegas housing market.
 Ruby Tuesday, the restaurant chain, fell about 15 percent, to $23.35, a day after it trimmed its outlook for 2005. 
 Prices of Treasury securities were nearly steady yesterday, despite the weaker-than-expected report on the services sector and record crude oil prices. Dealers were wary ahead of Friday's September payrolls report. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 3/32, to 100 19/32. The yield was at 4.17 percent, unchanged from Monday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.881
High Rate: 1.530
Coupon Yield: 1.553
Low Rate: 1.510
Median Rate: 1.525
Total applied for: $46,747,316
Accepted: $17,182,946
Noncompetitive: $81,293
The four-week bills mature Nov. 04, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); VACCINES (86%); INFLUENZA (85%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); SECURITIES LAW (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (69%); HURRICANES (68%); PROFIT WARNINGS (68%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (68%); ANTIVIRALS (65%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (63%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (62%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (61%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (93%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%); CHEVRON CORP (55%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (53%); MEDIMMUNE INC (51%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (51%); PULTEGROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (93%); AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%); XOM (NYSE) (55%); CVX (NYSE) (55%); UTX (NYSE) (51%); PHM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (93%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (93%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (50%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (50%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (50%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



140 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: Near Las Vegas, but a World Apart

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
Summerlin, a vast community built from scratch on arid land, may be only about 10 miles to the west of this city's Strip but it is a world apart from that flashy playground, with its anything-goes aesthetic.
 In Summerlin, strict controls abound: streetlamps direct light downward to reduce the glare, the signs are unobtrusive, the concrete used to build the big-box stores is engineered to look like sandstone, and houses must be painted in colors that harmonize with the desert landscape.
 Rules like these have helped to make Summerlin one of the best-selling planned communities in the nation. Thirteen years after the first residents moved in, Summerlin is already home to more than 87,000 people. It is on 22,500 acres bought in 1952 by Howard Hughes, the eccentric movie producer and aircraft manufacturer and designer, who died in 1976. 
 The community, named for Mr. Hughes's paternal grandmother, Jean Amelia Summerlin, is operated by a company formed by his heirs. The Howard Hughes Corporation has built Summerlin's roads and parks and some of the commercial buildings, but it sells housing lots to other developers. Another 6,600 acres are left.
 What distinguishes Summerlin from many other planned communities is the high quality of its public buildings and its extensive trail system, now stretching 107 miles, said Richard E. Heapes, a founding partner of Street-Works, a development and consulting company in Alexandria, Va. ''There has been a genuine attempt through the trails system to knit the community together,'' said Mr. Heapes, who served on a jury of a nonprofit real estate industry group, the Urban Land Institute, that gave Summerlin an award in 2002.
 Since 1996, Hughes has been a division of the Rouse Company of Columbia, Md., a pioneer in both the shopping mall and land development industries. But in August, Rouse agreed to be acquired by General Growth Properties, a giant mall owner based in Chicago, for $7.2 billion in cash and $5.4 billion in assumed debt. General Growth has not said whether it plans to get out of the land business, although several analysts said a sale was unlikely. Officials at both Rouse and General Growth declined to comment.
 The deal, which is expected to be approved by Rouse shareholders before the end of the year, has been roundly criticized by most Wall Street analysts because of its rich price and the mountain of debt that General Growth is taking on. Fitch Ratings and Moody's Investors Service served notice that they were considering downgrading Rouse and General Growth bonds.
 Summerlin and Rouse's six other community developments were a driving force behind the company's decision to seek a buyer, Rouse said last month in a proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a real estate investment trust, Rouse is not subject to corporate income tax but is allowed to have a taxable subsidiary. But the value of the taxable portion of its land business -- including Columbia, Md., and a 52.5 percent interest in the Woodlands, outside Houston -- may not exceed 20 percent of the value of all of its assets.
 With mall prices rapidly rising, Rouse apparently believed it could no longer justify buying more shopping centers to offset the gains from its land assets, said Matthew Ostrower, a retail REIT analyst at Morgan Stanley.
 Selling the land development business separately would have created a huge tax liability, Rouse said. And under its agreement with the Hughes heirs, the company said, Summerlin cannot be sold until 2009.
 Mr. Ostrower and other analysts cited other reasons that led to Rouse's decision to sell: the high prices that malls are currently commanding and the huge sums that top executives stand to receive. David M. Fick, a managing director at Legg Mason Wood Walker in Baltimore, estimated that Anthony W. Deering, the 59-year-old chairman of Rouse, would get more than $110 million.
 The proxy statement also illustrates the feverish competition for mall properties as huge REIT's try to expand their business when there are few desirable locations left for large shopping centers. General Growth did not initiate the merger discussions, but it took the company only six weeks to reach a decision after it was invited to bid on Rouse, a time frame that other potential buyers said was too compressed.
 According to the proxy statement, another REIT -- believed to be the Simon Property Group -- approached Rouse first, at an industry conference in June, but later complained that it was not given enough time to evaluate the prospective deal.
 Negotiations with a third REIT, the Westfield Group, went further, but Westfield was unwilling to acquire Rouse's land development interests. 
 (Simon and Westfield officials would not confirm that the proxy statement referred to their companies.)
 With this merger, General Growth will have debt equal to more than 70 percent of its total capitalization, far more than the current average leverage for shopping malls of 48.5 percent, Mr. Ostrower said.
 Paul Morgan of Friedman, Billings, Ramsey, one of the few retail REIT analysts who has welcomed the merger, said that General Growth would own 22 of the top malls in the country, giving it more influence with the most prestigious retailers. The company will also become the dominant mall owner in Las Vegas, with five properties, including Rouse's Fashion Show Mall on the Strip.
 William Travers, a director at Fitch, said that General Growth was weighing several options that might include a combination of refinancing existing mortgages, placing new mortgages on unencumbered property, selling Rouse's nine-million-square-foot office buildings, or issuing new stock. Although the land business is new to General Growth, Greg Andrews, a retail REIT analyst at Green Street Advisors, said he did not expect the company to sell the land business. ''From the indications they have given, the more they learn about it, the more they like it,'' he said. 
 For Summerlin, the proposed change in ownership is coming just as work is beginning on a 400-acre hub that will include prime office space, a regional shopping center and urban-style residential units. Tom Warden, a Hughes vice president, said that ''an urban village is a solution to a lot of problems'' that the Las Vegas Valley -- the fastest-growing metropolitan area in the nation during the 1990's -- is facing. These days, it can take as long as an hour to drive to downtown Las Vegas from Summerlin, water conservation is a major concern and land prices have been skyrocketing.
 In May 2001, for example, the Bureau of Land Management, which controls 85 percent of the land in Nevada, sold 1,900 acres for $25,000 an acre to American Nevada and the Del Webb Corporation, the developers of the Aliante community in North Las Vegas. Last June, the Focus Property Group paid $287,000 an acre for a 1,940-acre parcel in Henderson.
 With many executives living in or near Summerlin, there is likely to be demand for high-grade office space, provided that land costs do not make rents prohibitive, said Michael R. Dunn, a director at Cushman & Wakefield. He estimated that annual rents would have to be at least $31 a square foot -- a level seen only at the Howard Hughes Center, a 1.1-million-square-foot office complex east of the Strip.
 The rising cost of land is making it inevitable that building heights will rise, a source of concern to residents. Last year, they forced Station Casinos to reduce the scale of the Red Rock Station, a 400-room hotel and 87,000-square-foot casino that is scheduled to open in Summerlin Centre in 2006. The company originally sought to build a 300-foot tower but settled for 198 feet, or 17 stories.
 Under the master plan, two 19-story office buildings could be built in Summerlin Centre, but the first complex will be of more modest scale. Business Bank of Nevada plans to break ground early next year on two three-story buildings with 150,000 square feet of prime space and expects to lease all but 40,000 square feet, said Paul Stowell, a senior vice president.
 Gabriel Lither, the president of Summerlin Residents for Responsible Growth, said that most homeowners realized that more density was coming. ''We don't have the land or the water to keep having sprawl,'' he said. 
 He also said the height of a building should not be dictated solely by plans that were made years ago. ''Our concern is that one area might be overbuilt, with buildings that are too dense -- too tall,'' he said. ''They have the right to do it, but they should do it with community support.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: In Summerlin, a popular Las Vegas planned community, controls abound: streetlamps direct light downward to reduce glare, signs are unobtrusive and houses must be painted to harmonize with the desert landscape. (Photo by John Locher for The New York Times)Chart: ''Data Update''National housing starts, sales and completions, seasonally adjusted annual rates through August.Graph tracks sales, starts, and completions since 2000.(Source by Census Bureau, Construction Statistics Division)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (85%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (85%); DESERTS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); RETAILERS (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (68%); AIRCRAFT MFG (68%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (68%); BONDS (66%); CREDIT BUREAUS (63%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (60%); APPROVALS (60%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); CORPORATE TAX (50%); INCOME TAX (50%) Housing

COMPANY: HOWARD HUGHES CORP (83%); GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES INC (82%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (61%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) Hughes, Howard, Corp; Rouse Co; General Growth Properties Inc

TICKER: HHC (NYSE) (83%); GGP (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (83%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (83%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (82%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: Terry Pristin; Howard (1905-76) Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (95%) NEVADA, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (76%); MARYLAND, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (95%) Las Vegas (Nev); Summerlin (Nev); Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



141 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Board Is Said Not to Vote On Chief's Plan for Lazard
The board of Lazard met in Paris but did not vote on a plan by its chief executive, Bruce Wasserstein, to take the firm public, two people close to the company said. Not all of the firm's working partners, who own 64 percent of the company, have signed off on the plan, they said.
 If Lazard decides to go ahead with an offering, the directors would have to approve the plan. But no board meeting is currently scheduled for that purpose, one of these people said. [Page C2.]

Google Disproves Its Doubters
Shares of Google, the Internet search engine, broke the $135 ceiling, closing at $138.37. In August, when Google shares started trading at $85 a share, there was no shortage of naysayers eager to caution the average investor against paying a high premium for what they considered a risky stock. [C4.]

Flu Vaccine to Be in Short Supply
The Chiron Corporation said it would be unable to supply any of the 46 million to 48 million doses of flu vaccine it had planned to sell in the United States this year -- nearly half the expected supply -- because its manufacturing license had been suspended at a British factory where the vaccine is made. [A1.]

Houses Passes Bill on Military Sales
The House of Representatives approved a measure aimed at preventing marketing practices that have exposed military personnel to high-pressure or misleading sales pitches for financial products. [C6.]

US Airways Pilots Will Vote on Cuts
The leaders of the pilots' union at US Airways have agreed to send the latest concessions to a vote of the members. [C4.]

F.C.C. Is Assailed on Funding
The Federal Communications Commission came under sharp criticism in Congress over decisions that have led to the suspension of a $2.25 billion program that pays for telephone and Internet services at the nation's public schools and libraries. [C4.]

Ink Expert Is Acquitted
Larry F. Stewart, the Secret Service ink expert who was accused of lying on the stand in the obstruction of justice trial of Martha Stewart, was acquitted of two charges of perjury. Mr. Stewart, who is no relation to Ms. Stewart, was charged with lying in his testimony about his role in analyzing notations made with blue pen on a document listing Ms. Stewart's stock holdings. [C2.]

September Services Index Falls
An index of services in the United States dropped to a 16-month low in September and suggested that high energy prices may limit the economic expansion. [C3.]

Crude Oil Prices Top $51 a Barrel
Oil prices in New York climbed above $51 a barrel as traders focused on supplies from the Gulf of Mexico, where production is still suffering delays after Hurricane Ivan. [C8.]

Stocks closed mostly lower as oil prices rose. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 38.86 points, at 10,177.68. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended down 0.69 point, at 1,134.48. The Nasdaq composite index closed up 3.10 points, at 1,955.50. [C8.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,177.68 down 38.86Nasdaq composite -- 1,955.50 up 3.1010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.17% Unch.The euro -- $1.2327 up 0.0040The dollar -- 111.09 yen up 0.22Graph tracks share prices of Google for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (79%); APPROVALS (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); VACCINES (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); INFLUENZA (72%); ANTIVIRALS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); TESTIMONY (70%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); SEARCH ENGINES (69%); HURRICANES (69%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (69%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (66%); ACQUITTAL (66%); ARMED FORCES (65%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (63%); LIBRARIES (61%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); NOVARTIS AG (69%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); NVS (NYSE) (69%); NOVN (SWX) (69%); LCC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (69%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (69%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: BRUCE WASSERSTEIN (72%); MARTHA STEWART (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



142 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Country Music in the City? 2005 Nashville Awards Go to New York

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE; Phil Sweetland contributed reporting from Nashville for this article.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who donned a tan cowboy hat, joked that he was working on a song called ''Mamas, Don't Let Your Babies Grow Up to Be Mayors.''
 Trace Adkins, in a black cowboy hat, called the mayor ''a country music wannabe.''
 Such was the repartee at City Hall yesterday, as the mayor and Country Music Association officials announced that the annual country music awards show, held in Nashville for more than 30 years, was going to Madison Square Garden next year for the first time.
 It was a festive news conference, laced with the seeming incongruity of the city of Broadway shows holding country music's biggest awards program. But Mr. Bloomberg said the Nov. 15, 2005, show from New York, to be broadcast as usual on CBS, will give the city an economic boost of as much as $30 million and show off its post-9/11 glory. 
 For country music fans, it is a chance for their art to shine in the nation's media capital and perhaps lure new fans and new viewers, said Kix Brooks, president of the C.M.A.'s board of directors and half of the recording duo Brooks & Dunn, which performed at the Republican convention last month.
 ''New York City has a proven track record of hosting the biggest and most watched events around the globe,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, ''including the 2002 N.F.L. Kickoff in Times Square, the 2003 Grammy Awards and most recently the 2004 Republican National Convention.'' 
 Yesterday a reporter asked Mr. Bloomberg if the cowboy hat would become a permanent part of his wardrobe. And the Nashville visitors presented him with a shiny brown guitar.
 More seriously, Mr. Brooks stressed that the C.M.A. had no plans to abandon Nashville, where the 38th annual awards program will be broadcast on Nov. 9 from its traditional home at the Grand Ole Opry. Rather, he said, this was a one-time deal to bring a bit of country to New York, with exhibitions and concerts planned in the week before the 2005 awards show.
 Unlike most other players of popular music, country musicians have often been strongly identified with one city, Nashville. New York City does not even have a radio station solely for country. 
 But the city and the music are not such an odd mix, other officials from the C.M.A. suggested. When Garth Brooks performed in Central Park in 1997, the concert drew the largest audience in the park's history, they said. They noted that nearly 2.5 percent of country music was sold in New York City, and that artists like the Dixie Chicks, Willie Nelson and Shania Twain depend on the city for up to 11 percent of their album sales.
 The country music awards show is already one of the most popular events on television, and a New York location just lends more excitement and glamour, Jack Sussman, CBS vice president for specials, said at the news conference. He said that last year the show was watched by more than 40 million people, roughly half the television audience of the Academy Awards and slightly more than the number of people who tuned in to the Emmy Awards.
 Mr. Adkins, who is on the C.M.A. board of directors, drew laughter when he said, ''We know there are a lot of country music fans in New York City and at least one country music wannabe,'' referring to Mr. Bloomberg.
 At the beginning of the news conference, Mr. Bloomberg was shown strumming a guitar and singing (in a voice made for print) in a short film used to court C.M.A. officials. He hailed the awards show as a coup on the part of a city office called NYC Big Events, which tries to bring high-profile shows and contests to the city. 
 ''If we do a great job, they'll be back,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. 
 In Nashville reaction was mixed to the news. Some saw it as a potential boon for country music sales, while others complained that New York had few real ties to country.
 ''It will be very positive for country music,'' said Lou Helton, the Nashville bureau chief of the trade newspaper Radio & Records. ''New York is the world's biggest stage, with more media than any other city in the world. Packing 17,000-plus into Madison Square Garden will also demonstrate the widespread popularity of 'America's Music.'''
 But Hazel Smith, a veteran music journalist and a regular on ''The Ellen DeGeneres Show,'' groused: ''Bloomberg wants the dollars for New York City. Since 9/11, he's striven to rake in the bucks any way he can. His Honor cares nothing about and knows nothing about country music or country singers.''
 ''There's not even a country radio station in New York,'' Ms. Smith said. ''Now if the Emmys will agree to come to Music Town See. Makes no sense, does it?'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg, in answer to a question about the aggressive marketing of the city, said these were competitive times for tourism and events. No big city in the world is not advertising itself, he added. New York's diversity, openness and concentration of media make it ''the place to go,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. 


CORRECTION-DATE: October 27, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in The Arts on Oct. 6 with an article about an announcement that the annual country music awards show would be held in New York next year reversed two performers' identities in some copies. Kix Brooks was at the left in the picture, Trace Adkins at the right and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in the center. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, showing his folksy side, flanked by the country stars Kix Brooks, left, and Trace Adkins, at City Hall yesterday. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. E9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTRY MUSIC (95%); MUSIC (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); POP & ROCK (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (75%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (70%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (67%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%) Music; Madison Square Garden; Awards, Decorations and Honors

ORGANIZATION: COUNTRY MUSIC ASSOCIATION (83%) Country Music Assn

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Felicia R Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); TENNESSEE, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



143 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1698 words

HEADLINE: For Cheney and Edwards, a Night of Sharp Exchanges

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
In a strikingly personal and bitter debate, Vice President Dick Cheney defended the Bush administration's record on Iraq on Tuesday night as ''exactly the right thing to do'' and asserted that Senators John Kerry and John Edwards bent with the political winds on national security.
 Mr. Edwards fired back with a wide-ranging assault on the administration's honesty and competence in foreign and domestic policy. ''One thing that's very clear is that a long resume does not equal good judgment,'' Mr. Edwards declared, in one of many sharp exchanges that spoke to the closeness of the race and the differences between the two tickets.
 Mr. Cheney was defiantly unapologetic about the course of the conflict in Iraq, defending the administration against the charge that it had failed to provide enough troops to stabilize Iraq, as the former top American official in Iraq, L. Paul Bremer III, said in a speech on Monday. [Page A22.] 
 Mr. Cheney said he would recommend the same course in Iraq if he had it to do over again, adding, ''The world is safer today because Saddam Hussein is in jail, his government's no longer in power, and we did exactly the right thing.'' [Excerpts, Page A24; video, nytimes.com.]
 Mr. Edwards shot back, ''Mr. Vice President, you are still not being straight with the American people.'' He repeatedly charged that Mr. Cheney had conflated the threat from Mr. Hussein with Al Qaeda, and argued that the United States needed a ''fresh start'' and new leadership if it was to succeed in Iraq.
 The bitter tone of the debate, held at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, extended across a range of issues, from Mr. Cheney's tenure as chief executive of Halliburton to Mr. Edwards's voting record. 
 Mr. Edwards appeared to hold his own in the remarkably intense thrust and parry of the evening, at times putting Mr. Cheney on the defensive. But their confrontation contained nothing that is likely to alter the race fundamentally, and the focus is likely to shift rapidly back to the top of their respective tickets. Mr. Bush is giving a speech on terrorism and the economy on Wednesday morning, and he and Mr. Kerry will debate each other two more times, on Friday in St. Louis and next Wednesday in Tempe, Ariz.
 After what many viewed as a lackluster performance by Mr. Bush in last week's debate, Mr. Cheney returned to the harsh attacks of the Republican convention, asserting that Mr. Kerry was unprincipled on national security and could not be trusted to be as aggressive as the Republicans in protecting the nation. 
 He asserted that the Kerry-Edwards ticket had shifted positions to suit its political needs. ''Now, if they couldn't stand up to the pressures that Howard Dean represented, how can we expect them to stand up to Al Qaeda?''' Mr. Cheney asked.
 Five days after Mr. Bush's first encounter with Mr. Kerry, in Florida last Thursday, Mr. Cheney was under pressure to halt any momentum the Democratic ticket had picked up and sharpen the Republican assault on Mr. Kerry. After weeks in which Mr. Bush held a steady lead, polls have shown the race tightening markedly, to a statistical dead heat in several of them.
 For Mr. Edwards, the 90-minute debate, moderated by Gwen Ifill of PBS, was a major political test, pitting him against a far more experienced opponent.
 With so much at stake, both men unleashed their sharpest attacks, each describing his opponent -- seated just inches away -- with withering contempt. Referring to Halliburton, Mr. Edwards said, ''The facts are, the vice president's company, that he was C.E.O. of, that did business with sworn enemies of the United States, paid millions of dollars in fines for providing false financial information.'' That company, Mr. Edwards added, ended up with a $7.5 billion no-bid contract for work in Iraq.
 Mr. Cheney shot back that the Democrat was raising Halliburton as a smokescreen to obscure his own record in the Senate, which was, he asserted, ''not very distinguished' and marked by so many missed votes that a local newspaper called him Senator Gone. The vice president added that he was presiding officer of the Senate, yet, ''The first time I ever met you was when you walked onto the stage tonight.''
 Mr. Edwards's spokesman, Mark Kornblau, said later that Mr. Edwards had met Mr. Cheney twice previously, at the National Prayer Breakfast on Feb. 1, 2001, and at the swearing in of Senator Elizabeth Dole, Republican of North Carolina.
 Mr. Edwards, his sunny smile gone cold, replied that Mr. Cheney's voting record included voting against such popular programs and initiatives as Head Start, the creation of the Department of Education, meals on wheels for the elderly, and a federal holiday to honor the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 
 One of the rare moments of personal warmth Tuesday night came on the issue of gay marriage. Mr. Cheney, who has a gay daughter, reiterated his support for the idea that marriage should be regulated by the states, in contrast to Mr. Bush's call for a federal constitutional ban on same-sex marriage. ''People ought to be free to choose any arrangement they want,'' he said. ''It's really no one else's business.'' Mr. Edwards praised Mr. Cheney for openly embracing his daughter.
 When Ms. Ifill turned the discussion to domestic policy, Mr. Edwards jumped in with gusto, noting that under Mr. Bush the economy has so far suffered a net loss of jobs, putting him at risk of becoming the first president in 70 years not to post a record of employment gains.
 From the first moments of the debate, Mr. Cheney and Mr. Edwards clashed sharply and directly on Iraq. Mr. Cheney, pressing the party's attacks of recent days, asserted that Mr. Kerry had embraced a ''global test'' for the pre-emptive use of force in last week's debate.
 Mr. Cheney described it as a ''part of a track record that goes back to the 1970's'' of being ''on the wrong side of defense issues,'' and said the Democrats gave no indication of being willing to go forward aggressively in the war on terror.
 Mr. Edwards countered, ''What John Kerry said, and it's just as clear as day to anybody who was listening, He said, 'We will find terrorists where they are and kill them before they ever do harm to the American people.'''
 Mr. Edwards pointed out that Mr. Kerry had explicitly said he would never give any other nation a veto over American national security decisions. But he said the American people and the rest of the world deserved to know the full truth about why the United States was going to war. 
 ''It is critical that we be credible,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''They need to know that the credibility of the United States is always good.''
 The two candidates met around a table, a format favored by Mr. Cheney's team because they said it would play to what they characterized as the vice president's strengths: his low-key but earnest manner. The atmosphere from the start was chilly. The two men came out on stage, shook hands and then immediately sat down and began taking notes on yellow legal pads, exchanging barely a glance.
 The personal contrast between the two vice presidential candidates could not have been more striking. At 51, Mr. Edwards was participating in his first one-on-one televised debate, a measure of his meteoric six-year rise in electoral politics, from millionaire trial lawyer to first-term senator from North Carolina to the No. 2 spot on the Democratic ticket. 
 Even so, Republicans asserted that his skills as a courtroom lawyer steeped in the Southern populist tradition made him a formidable opponent. Before the debate, Matthew Dowd, President Bush's campaign strategist and an expert in the art of lowering political expectations for his team, called Mr. Edwards a ''cross between Atticus Finch and William Jennings Bryan.''
 Mr. Cheney's job was made all the more difficult by a confluence of events, including the continued violence in Iraq, that raised questions about his advocacy of the invasion of Iraq and the administration's planning for what came after Saddam Hussein was deposed.
 In a speech on Monday, Mr. Bremer, who oversaw the American presence in Iraq until the handover of sovereignty early this summer, said the United States had failed to put enough troops on the ground to assure security in Iraq. Mr. Kerry seized on Mr. Bremer's comments to buttress his case that Mr. Bush had mishandled the war, a line of argument Mr. Edwards pressed.
 Mr. Cheney said that Iraq had been an appropriate target after the Sept. 11 attacks because of its ''established relationship with Al Qaeda'' and that Iraq had been the ''nexus'' that could provide terrorists with access to nuclear, biological or chemical weapons.
 But Mr. Edwards, in his first response, challenged Mr. Cheney's credibility. He said that Mr. Cheney and Mr. Bush "continue to tell people things are going well in Iraq,'' an assertion he said was obviously false to the American people who can see otherwise everyday on television.
 Mr. Edwards also accused Mr. Cheney of falsely linking the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 and Iraq. ''There is no connection between attacks of 9/11 and Saddam Hussein,'' he said. ''You said there is some connection; there is not.''
 When Ms. Ifill asked if a Kerry-Edwards administration would have acted differently when confronted with the threat of Saddam Hussein, Mr. Edwards said that Mr. Hussein ''needed to be confronted'' but that United Nations weapons inspectors should have been given more time. He said the American invasion of March 2003 had distracted attention fom Al Qaeda and Osama bin Laden, who were responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks.
 ''We had Osama bin Laden cornered at Tora Bora,'' he said. "We had the finest military in the world on the ground.'' Asked whether the administration moved too quickly to leave the fight in Afghanistan, Mr. Cheney said the administration had "never let up on Osama bin Laden from Day One. We'll continue to aggressively pursue him and I'm confident we'll get him.'' The Vice President said that Mr. Edwards did not appreciate or understand the progress that had taken place in Afghanistan and he criticized him for saying two years ago that the country was in chaos.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Vice President Dick Cheney and Senator John Edwards facing off last night in Cleveland in an exchange that was often pointed and personal. (Photo by Ron Edmonds/Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 Senator John Edwards introduced his parents, Wallace and Bobbie Edwards, to Vice President Dick Cheney after the debate last night. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); AL-QAEDA (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (93%); DICK CHENEY (93%); JOHN KERRY (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



144 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Warming to Brazil, Powell Says Its Nuclear Program Isn't a Concern

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: BRASILIA, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, stepping up the American courtship of President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, said Tuesday that the United States had no concerns that Brazil was planning to develop nuclear weapons despite the country's resistance to allowing international inspectors greater access to one of its nuclear reactors.
 After meeting with President da Silva and other Brazilian leaders, Mr. Powell also offered another gesture to Brazilian aspirations, saying that Brazil's contributions to peacekeeping in Haiti and other actions made it was worthy of consideration for permanent membership on the United Nations Security Council. 
 The United Nations is studying the possibility of increasing the number of permanent seats in response to demands for membership from several countries, including India, Brazil, Germany and Japan. At present, only the United States, Britain, France, China and Russia are permanent members, which carries the right to veto any resolution.
 Mr. Powell was noncommittal as to whether the United States would endorse Brazil's addition, saying that Washington was awaiting results of a study by a panel appointed by Secretary General Kofi Annan. But he did say that Brazil would be a strong candidate.
 On the nuclear issue, Mr. Powell addressed a question about concerns in many countries that Brazil's opposition to unlimited inspections, as sought by the International Atomic Energy Agency, might embolden other nations like Iran and North Korea to reject inspections of their suspected nuclear arms programs.
 ''I don't have those concerns,'' Mr. Powell said at a news conference after meeting with Foreign Minister Celso Amorim. ''I don't think Brazil can be talked about in the same vein or put in the same category as Iran or North Korea.''
 He said that Iran and North Korea, for example, had either expelled international inspectors or refused to cooperate with them in disclosing nuclear facilities, and that many experts agreed that those countries were making nuclear weapons. North Korea, he noted, has announced its nuclear arms program as a matter of policy.
 ''The United States understands that Brazil has no interest in a nuclear weapon, no desire and no plans, no programs, no intention of moving toward a nuclear weapon,'' Mr. Powell said in an interview on TV Globo. ''They have a nuclear power program. We understand that.''
 In a speech to business leaders, talks with President da Silva and in interviews with local news media, Mr. Powell used his day-and-a-half visit to push the idea that Brazil was emerging as a dominant power in the region and one that the United States -- perhaps to its surprise -- could do business with on a number of fronts.
 Since his election in 2002 as the first president from the leftist Workers Party, Mr. da Silva has been cultivated by the Bush administration in the hope that he would soften his economic policies and serve as a moderating influence in Latin America, despite his alliance with such leftist leaders as Fidel Castro of Cuba and Hugo Chavez of Venezuela.
 American officials say that strategy has worked, and that under Mr. da Silva Brazil has hewed to a pro-capitalist, pro-investment and fiscally conservative line. This year, Mr. da Silva sent Brazilian forces as peacekeepers to Haiti under the aegis of the United Nations to keep order after the forced resignation of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
 Foreign Minister Amorim said that he expected the dispute with the International Atomic Energy Agency over inspectors' access to Brazil's enriched-uranium facilities would be resolved soon by technical experts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); VETO (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GLOBO PLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (55%)

TICKER: GBO (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); HAITI (79%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



145 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: The Vice-Presidential Debate; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 7299 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From the Debate Between the Vice-Presidential Candidates in Cleveland

 BODY:
The Vice-Presidential Debate: 'There's a Fundamental Difference of Opinion Here'The Vice-Presidential Debate: 'There's a Fundamental Difference of Opinion Here'Following are excerpts from the vice-presidential debate last night between Vice President Dick Cheney and Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, as recorded by The New York Times. The moderator was Gwen Ifill of PBS. A full transcript is at www.nytimes.com.

The Iraq War
 MS. IFILL -- Vice President Cheney, there have been new developments in Iraq, especially having to do with the administration's handling. Paul Bremer, the former head of the Coalition Provisional Authority gave a speech in which he said that we have never had enough troops on the ground. Donald Rumsfeld said he has not seen any hard evidence of a link between Al Qaeda and Saddam Hussein. Was this the fruit of a report that you requested that you received a week ago that showed there was no connection between Abu Musab al-Zarqawi and Saddam Hussein?
 MR. CHENEY -- Gwen, I want to thank you, and I want to thank the folks here at Case Western Reserve for hosting us tonight. It's a very important event, and they've done a superb job of putting it together.
 It's important to look at all of our developments in Iraq within the broader context of the global war on terror. And after 9/11, it became clear that we had to do several things to have a successful strategy to win the global war on terror, specifically that we had to go after the terrorists wherever we might find them, that we also had to go after state sponsors of terror, those who might provide sanctuary or safe harbor for terror. And we also then, finally, had to stand up democracies in their stead afterwards because that was the only way to guarantee that these states would not again become safe harbors for terror or for the development of deadly weapons.
 The concern about Iraq specifically focused on the fact that Saddam Hussein had been for years listed on the state sponsor of terror, that he had established relationships with Abu Nadil, who operated out of Baghdad, he paid $25,000 to the families of suicide bombers and he had established relationship with Al Qaeda, specifically look at George Tenet, C.I.A. director's testimony before the Committee on Foreign Relations two years ago when he talked about a 10-year relationship.
 The effort that we mounted with respect to Iraq focused specifically on the possibility that this was the most likely nexus between the terrorists and weapons of mass destruction. The biggest threat we face today is the possibility of terrorists smuggling a nuclear weapon or a biological agent into one of our cities and threatening the lives of hundreds of thousands of Americans. 
 What we did in Iraq was exactly the right thing to do. If I had it to recommend all over again, I would recommend exactly the right -- same course of action. The world's far safer today because Saddam Hussein is in jail. His government's no longer in power. And we did exactly the right thing. 
 MS. IFILL -- Senator Edwards, you have 90 seconds to respond.
 MR. EDWARDS -- Thank you, Gwen, for moderating this debate. Thank you the folks of Case Western and all the people in Ohio for having us here. 
 Mr. Vice President, you are still not being straight with the American people. I mean the reality you and George Bush continue to tell people, first, that things are going well in Iraq. The American people don't need us to explain this to them. They see it on their television every single day. We lost more troops in September than we lost in August, lost more in August than we lost in July, lost more in July than we lost in June. The truth is our men and women in uniform have been heroic. Our military has done everything they've been asked to do. 
 And it's not just me that sees the mess in Iraq. There are Republican leaders like John McCain, like Richard Lugar, like Chuck Hagel who have said Iraq is a mess and it's getting worse. And when they were asked why Richard Lugar said because of the incompetence of the administration. What Paul Bremer said yesterday is they didn't have enough troops to secure the country. They also didn't have a plan to win the peace. They also didn't put the alliances together to make this successful. 
 We need a fresh start. We need a president who will speed up the training of the Iraqis, get more staff in for doing that. We need to speed up the reconstruction so the Iraqis see some tangible benefit. We need a new president who has the credibility, which John Kerry has, to bring others into this effort. 
 MS. IFILL -- Would you like 30 seconds to respond, Mr. Vice President?
 MR. CHENEY -- I would. We've made significant progress in Iraq. We've stood up a new government that's been in power now only 90 days. The notion of additional troops is talked about frequently. But the point of success in Iraq will be reached when we have turned governance over to the Iraqi people, they've been able to establish a democratic government. They're well on their way to doing that. They'll have free elections next January for the first time in history. 
 We also are actively, rapidly training Iraqis to take on the security responsibility. Those two steps are crucial to success in Iraq. They're well in hand, well under way. And I'm confident that in fact we'll get the job done.
 MS. IFILL -- You have 30 seconds, Mr. Edwards.
 MR. EDWARDS -- Yes, Mr. Vice President, there is no connection between the attacks of Sept. 11 and Saddam Hussein. The 9/11 commission has said it. Your own secretary of state has said it. And you've gone around the country suggesting that there is some connection. There's not. 
 And, in fact, the C.I.A. is now about to report that the connection between Al Qaeda and Saddam Hussein is tenuous at best. And, in fact, the secretary of defense said yesterday that he knows of no hard evidence of the connection. We need to be straight with the American people. 
 MS. IFILL -- Time for a new question, but the same topic. This time to you, Senator Edwards. You and Senator Kerry have said that the war in Iraq is the wrong war at the wrong time. Does that mean that if you had been president and vice president that Saddam Hussein would still be in power?
 MR. EDWARDS -- Here's what it means, it means that Saddam Hussein needed to be confronted. John Kerry and I have consistently said that. It's why we voted for the resolution. But it also means it needed to be done the right way. And doing it the right way meant that we were prepared, that we gave the weapons inspectors the time to find out what we now know, that in fact there were no weapons of mass destruction, that we didn't take our eye off the ball, which are Al Qaeda, Osama bin Laden, the people who attacked us on September the 11th.
 Now remember, we went into Afghanistan, which by the way was the right thing to do. That was the right decision. And our military performed terrifically there. But we had Osama bin Laden cornered at Tora Bora. We had the 10th Mountain Division up in Uzbekistan available. We had the finest military in the world on the ground. And what did we do? We turned -- This is the man who masterminded the greatest mass murder and terrorist attack in American history. And what did the administration decide to do? They gave the responsibility of capturing or killing Saddam -- I mean Osama bin Laden, to Afghan warlords, who just a few weeks before had been working with Osama bin Laden.
 Our point in this is not complicated. We were attacked by Al Qaeda and Osama bin Laden. We went into Afghanistan. And very quickly, the administration made a decision to divert attention from that and instead began to plan for the invasion of Iraq. 
 And these connections, I want the American people to hear this very clearly, listen carefully to what the vice president's saying, because there is no connection between Saddam Hussein and the attacks of Sept. 11. Period. The 9/11 Commission has said that's true. Colin Powell has said it's true. But the vice president keeps suggesting that there is. There is not. And in fact any connection with Al Qaeda is tenuous at best.
 MS. IFILL -- Mr. Vice President, you have 90 seconds to respond.
 MR. CHENEY -- The senator's got his fact wrong. I have not suggested there's a connection between Iraq and 9/11. But there's clearly an established Iraqi track record with terror. And the point is that that's the place where you're most likely to see the terrorists come together with weapons of mass destruction, the deadly technologies that Saddam Hussein had developed and used over the years.
 The fact of the matter is the big difference here, Gwen, is that they are not prepared to deal with states that sponsor terror. They've got a very limited view about how to use U.S. military force to defend America. We heard Senator Kerry say the other night that there ought to be some kind of global test before U.S. troops are deployed preemptively to protect the United States. That's part of a track record that goes back to the 1970's when he ran for Congress the first time and said troops should not be deployed without U.N. approval. Then in the mid-80's he ran on the basis of cutting most of our major defense programs. In 1991, he voted against Desert Storm. It's a consistent pattern over time of always being on the wrong side of defense issues. A little tough talk in the midst of a campaign or as part of a presidential debate cannot obscure a record of 30 years of being on the wrong side of defense issues. And they give absolutely no indication, based on that record, of being willing to go forward and aggressively pursue the war on terror with a kind of strategy that will work, that will defeat our enemies and will guarantee that the United States doesn't again get attacked by the likes of Al Qaeda.

Osama bin Laden
 MS. IFILL -- We believe that Osama bin Laden is hiding perhaps in a cave somewhere along the Afghan-Pakistan border. If you get a second term, what is your plan to capture him and then to neutralize those who have sprung up to replace him?
 MR. CHENEY -- Gwen, we have -- we've never let up on Osama bin Laden from day one. We've actively and aggressively pursued him. We've captured or killed thousands of Al Qaeda in various places around the world and especially in Afghanistan. We'll continue to very aggressively pursue him, and I'm confident eventually we'll get him.
 The key to success in Afghanistan has been, again, to go in and go after the terrorists, which we've done, and also take down the Taliban regime, which had allowed them to function there, in effect sponsors, if you will, of the Al Qaeda organization.
 John Edwards, two and a half years ago, six months after we went into Afghanistan, announced that it was chaotic, the situation was deteriorating, the warlords were about to take over. Here we are, two and half years later, we're four days away from a democratic election, the first one in history, in Afghanistan. We've got 10 million voters who've registered to vote, nearly half of them women. That election will put in place a democratically elected government that will take over next December. There's been enormous progress in Afghanistan in exactly the right direction, in spite of what John Edwards said two and a half years ago. He just got it wrong.
 Now, the fact is, as we go forward in Afghanistan, we will pursue Osama bin Laden and the terrorists as long as necessary. We're standing in -- up Afghan security forces so they can take on responsibility for their own security. We'll keep U.S. forces there -- we have about 16,000 there today -- as long as necessary to assist the Afghans in terms of dealing with their security situation. But they're making significant progress. We've got -- President Karzai is in power. They have done wonders writing their own constitution for the first time ever. Schools are open. Young girls are going to school. Women are going to vote. Women are even eligible to run for office. This is major, major progress. There will be democracy in Afghanistan, make no doubt about it. Freedom is the best antidote to terror.
 MS. IFILL -- Senator Edwards you have 90 seconds to respond.
 MR. EDWARDS -- Someone did get it wrong, but it wasn't John Kerry and John Edwards. They got it wrong. When we had Osama bin Laden cornered, they left the job to the Afghan warlords. They then diverted their attention from the very people who attacked us, who were at the center of the war on terror and Osama bin Laden is still at large. 
 Now I want to go back to something the vice president said just a minute ago. Because these distortions are continuing. He said, made mention of this global test. What John Kerry said is just as clear as day to anybody was listening. He said we will find terrorists where they are and kill them before they ever do harm to the American people, first. We will keep this country safe. He defended this country as a young man. He will defend this country as president of the United States. 
 He also said, very clearly, that he will never give any country veto power over the security of the United States of America. Now, I know the vice president would like to pretend that wasn't said and the president would, too. But the reality is, it was said. 
 Here's what's actually happened in Afghanistan regardless of this rosy scenario that they paint on Afghanistan just like they do Iraq. What's actually happened is they're now providing 75 percent of the world's opium. Not only are they providing 75 percent of the world's opium. Large parts of the country are under the control of drug lords and warlords. Big parts of the country are still insecure. And the reality is the part of Afghanistan, eastern Afghanistan, where Osama bin Laden is, is one of the hardest places to control and the most insecure.
 MS. IFILL -- Mr. Vice President, you have 30 seconds.
 MR. CHENEY -- Your rhetoric, senator, would be a lot more credible if there was a record to back it up. There isn't. And you cannot use talk tough during the course of a 90-minute debate in a presidential campaign to obscure a 30-year record in the United States Senate and prior to that, by John Kerry, who has consistently come down on the wrong side of all the major defense issues that he's faced as a public official.

The Cost of War
 MR. EDWARDS -- We're also going to make sure that we tell the world the truth. Because the reality is, for America to lead, for America to do what it's done for 50 years, before this president and vice president came into office, it is critical that we be credible. It is critical that they believe that when America takes action, they can trust what we're doing, what we say, what we say at the United Nations, what we say in direct conversations with leaders of other world -- other countries. They need to know that the credibility of the United States is always good. Because they will not follow us without that. 
 And unfortunately, we're seeing the consequences of that right now. It's one of the reasons that we're having so much difficulty getting others involved in the effort in Iraq. You know, we've taken 90 percent of the coalition casualties. American taxpayers have borne 90 percent of the cost of the effort in Iraq. And we see the result of there not being a coalition. The first gulf war cost America $5 billion. We're at $200 billion and counting.
 John Kerry will never give control over the security of the United States of America to any other country. We will not outsource our responsibility to keep this country safe.
 MS. IFILL -- Mr. Vice President, you have 90 seconds to respond.
 MR. CHENEY -- Well, Gwen, the 90 percent figure is just dead wrong. When you include the Iraqi security forces that have suffered casualties, as well as the allies, they've taken almost 50 percent of the casualties in operations in Iraq, which leaves the U.S. with 50 percent, not 90 percent.
 With respect to the cost, it wasn't $200 billion. You probably weren't there to vote for that, but the $120 billion is in fact what has been allocated to Iraq. The rest of it's for Afghanistan and the global war on terror.
 The allies have stepped forward and agreed to reduce and forgive Iraqi debt to the tune of nearly $80 billion, by one estimate. That plus 14 billion they promised in terms of direct aid puts the overall allied contribution financially at about $95 billion. Not to the 120 billion we've got, but, you know, better than 40 percent. So your facts are just wrong, Senator.
 You also have a situation where you talk about credibility. It's awfully hard to convey a sense of credibility to allies when you voted for the war and then you declared wrong war, wrong place, wrong time. You voted for the war and then you voted against supporting the troops when they needed the equipment, the fuel, the spare parts and the ammunition and the body armor. You're not credible on Iraq because of the enormous inconsistencies that John Kerry and you have cited time after time after time during the course of the campaign. Whatever the political pressures the moment requires, that's where you're at. But you've not been consistent and there's no indication at all that John Kerry has the conviction to successfully carry through on the war on terror.

John Kerry's Qualifications
 MS. IFILL -- Mr. Vice President, a new question for you. You have two minutes to respond. When the president says that Senator Kerry is emboldening enemies and you say that we could get hit again if voters make the wrong choice in November, are you saying that it would be a dangerous thing to have John Kerry as president?
 MR. CHENEY -- I'm saying specifically that I don't believe he has the qualities we need in a commander in chief. Because I don't think based on his record that he would pursue the kind of aggressive policies that need to be pursued if we're going to defeat these terrorists. We need to battle them overseas so we don't have to battle them here at home. 
 I'm not challenging John Kerry's patriotism. I said in my acceptance speech in New York City at the Republican convention that we respected his service in Vietnam and I got applause for that. We've never criticized his patriotism. What we question is his judgment. And his judgment is flawed. And the record is there for anybody who wants to look at it. In 1984, when he ran for the Senate he opposed or called for the elimination of a great many major weapon systems that were crucial to winning the cold war and are important today to our overall forces. 
 When Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait and occupied it in 1990 and '91, he stood up on the floor of the Senate and voted against going in to liberate Kuwait and push Saddam Hussein back to Iraq. The problem we have is that if you look at his record he doesn't display the qualities of somebody who has conviction. 
 And with respect to this particular operation, we've seen a situation in which first they voted to commit the troops to send them to war, John Edwards and John Kerry. Then they came back and when the question was whether or not to provide them with the resources they needed, body armor, spare parts, ammunition, they voted against it. I couldn't figure out why that happened initially. And then I looked and figured out that what was happening was Howard Dean was making major progress in the Democratic primaries. Running away with the primaries based on an antiwar record. So they in effect decided they would cast an antiwar vote and they voted against the troops. Now if they couldn't stand up to the pressures that Howard Dean represented, how can we expect them to stand up to Al Qaeda?
 MS. IFILL -- Senator Edwards, you have 90 seconds to respond.
 MR. EDWARDS -- Thank you. One thing that's very clear is that a long resume does not equal good judgment. I mean we've seen over and over and over the misjudgments made by this administration. 
 I want to go back to what this -- what the vice president just said because it's a continuation of the things he's been doing, unfortunately, on the campaign trail, it's a continuation of what he began his first answer with tonight. John Kerry has voted for the biggest military appropriations bill in the country's history. John Kerry has voted for the biggest intelligence appropriations in the country's history. This vice president, when he was secretary of defense, cut over 80 weapons systems, including the very ones he's criticizing John Kerry for voting against. These are weapons systems, a big chunk of which, the vice president himself suggested we get rid of after the cold war. 
 The reality is that John Kerry has consistently supported the very men that he served with in Vietnam and led, on the $87 billion. It was clear at the time of that vote that they had no plan to win the peace. We're seeing the consequences of that every day on the ground right now. We stood up and said for our troops we must have a plan to win the peace. We also thought it was wrong to have a $20 billion fund out of which seven and a half billion was going to go to a no-bid contract for Halliburton, the vice president's former company. It was wrong then, it's wrong now.
 MS. IFILL -- Mr. Vice President, you have 30 seconds.
 MR. CHENEY -- Well, Gwen, I -- I think the record speaks for itself. These are two individuals who have been for the war when the headlines were good and against it when their poll ratings were bad. We have not seen the kind of consistency that a commander in chief has to have in order to be a leader in wartime and in order to be able to see the strategy through to victory. If we want to win the war on terror, it seems to me it's pretty clear the choice is George Bush not John Kerry.
 MS. IFILL -- And 30 seconds.
 MR. EDWARDS -- John Kerry has been absolutely clear and consistent from the beginning that we must stay focused on the people who attacked us, that Saddam Hussein was a threat that needed to be addressed directly, that the weapons inspectors needed to have time to do their job. Had they had time to do their job, they would have discovered what we now know -- that in fact Saddam Hussein had no weapons, that in fact Saddam Hussein has no connection with 9/11, that in fact Saddam Hussein has little or no connection with Al Qaeda.

Halliburton
 MR. EDWARDS -- I mentioned Halliburton a few minutes ago in connection with the $87 billion and you raised it in this question. This is relevant because he was pushing for lifting sanctions when he was C.E.O. of Halliburton. Here's why we didn't think Halliburton should have a no-bid contract. 
 While he was C.E.O. of Halliburton, they paid millions of dollars in fines for providing false information on -- on their company, just like Enron and Ken Lay. They did business with Libya and Iran, two sworn enemies of the United States. They're now under investigation for having bribed foreign officials during that period of time. Not only that, they've gotten a $7 1/2 billion no-bid contract in Iraq and, instead of part of their money being withheld, which is the way it's normally done, because they're under investigation, they've continued to get their money.
 MS. IFILL -- Mr. Vice President.
 MR. CHENEY -- I can respond, Gwen, but it's going to take more than 30 seconds.
 MS. IFILL -- Well, that's all you've got.
 MR. CHENEY -- Well, the reason they keep mentioning Halliburton is because they're trying to throw up a smoke screen. They know the charges are false. They know that if you go, for example, to factcheck.com, an independent Web site sponsored by the University of Pennsylvania, you can get the specific details with respect to Halliburton. It's an effort that they've made repeatedly to try to confuse the voters and to raise questions, but there's no substance to the charges.
 MS. IFILL -- Thirty seconds.
 MR. EDWARDS -- These are the facts. The facts are the vice president's company that he was C.E.O. of, that did business with sworn enemies of the United States, paid millions of dollars in fines for providing false financial information, that's under investigation for bribing foreign officials, the same company that got a $7.5-billion no-bid contract -- the rule is that part of their money's supposed to be withheld when they're under investigation, as they are now, for having overcharged the American taxpayer. But they're getting every dime of their money. I'm happy to let voters make their own decision about this. 
 MR. CHENEY -- Gwen, I want to go back to the last comment and then I'll come back to Israel/Palestine. 
 The reason they keep trying to attack Halliburton is because they want to obscure their own record. And Senator, frankly, you have a record in the Senate that's not very distinguished. You've missed 33 out of 36 meetings of the Judiciary Committee, almost 70 percent of the meetings of the Intelligence Committee. You've missed a lot of key votes on tax policy, on energy, on Medicare reform. Your hometown newspaper has taken to calling you Senator Gone. You've got one of the worst attendance records in the United States Senate. 
 Now, in my capacity as Vice President, I am the president of the Senate and the presiding officer. I'm up in the Senate most Tuesdays when they're in session. The first time I ever met you was when you walked on the stage tonight.
 With respect to Israel and Palestine, Gwen, the suicide bombers, in part, were generated by Saddam Hussein, who paid $25,000 to the families of suicide bombers. I personally think one of the reasons that we don't have as many suicide attacks today in Israel as we had in the past is because Saddam's no longer in business. 
 We've been strong supporters of Israel. The president stepped forward and put in place a policy, basically, that said we will support the establishment of two states, first president ever to say we'll establish and support a Palestinian state next door to Israelis. But first there has to be an interlocutor you can trust and deal with, and we won't have that. We don't have it now under Yasir Arafat. There has to be reform of the Palestinian system.
 MS. IFILL -- Senator Edwards, it's your turn to use 30 seconds for a complicated response.
 MR. EDWARDS -- That was a complete distortion of my record. I know that won't come as a shock. The vice president, I'm surprised to hear him talk about records. When he was one of 435 members of the United States House, he was one of 10 to vote against Head Start, one of four to vote against banning plastic weapons that can pass through metal detectors. He voted against the Department of Education. He voted against funding for Meals on Wheels for seniors. He voted against a holiday for Martin Luther King. He voted against a resolution calling for the release of Nelson Mandela in South Africa. It's amazing to hear him criticizing either my record or John Kerry's.
 MS. IFILL -- Thirty seconds.
 MR. CHENEY -- Oh, I think his record speaks for itself and, frankly, it's not very distinguished.

Taxes and the Economy
 MS. IFILL -- Mr. Vice President, the Census Bureau ranks Cleveland as the biggest poor city in the country: 31-percent jobless rate. You two gentlemen are pretty well off. You did well for yourselves in the private sector. What can you tell the people of Cleveland or people of cities like Cleveland that your administration will do to better their lives?
 MR. CHENEY -- Well, Gwen, there are several things that I think need to be done and are being done. We've of course been through a difficult recession and then the aftermath of 9/11 where we lost over a million jobs after that attack. We think the key is to address some basic fundamental issues that the president's already working on. 
 I think probably the most successful thing we can do with respect to ending poverty is to get people jobs. There is no better antidote to poverty than a good well-paying job that allows somebody to take care of their own family. To do that we have to make America the best place in the world to do business. And that means we've got to deal effectively with tax policy. We've got to reduce the litigation costs that are built into our society. We've got to provide adequate medical care. And make certain that we can in fact create the opportunities that are vital to that process. 
 I zero in in particular on education. I think the most important thing we can do is have a first-class public school system. I'm a product of public schools. And the president, his first legislative priority was the No Child Left Behind Act. It's the first piece of legislation we introduced. We got it passed that first summer on a bipartisan basis. We even had Ted Kennedy on board for the effort. 
 And it does several things. It establishes high standards. At the same sets up a system of testing with respect to our school system so we can establish accountability to parents and make certain that they understand how well their students are doing. And they have the opportunity to move students out of poorly performing schools to good schools. It strikes me that that is absolutely the heart of what needs to be done from the standpoint of education.
 It's also important as we go forward in the next term we want to be able to take what we've done for elementary education and move it into secondary education. It's working. We've seen reports now of a reduction in the achievement gap between majority students and minority students. We're making significant progress. 
 MS. IFILL -- Senator Edwards, you have 90 seconds.
 MR. EDWARDS -- Wasn't your -- your question was about jobs?
 MS. IFILL -- It was about jobs and it was about poverty.
 MR. EDWARDS -- I -- I thought it was about jobs and poverty. I hope we get a chance to talk about education, but that's what the vice president talked about.
 Here's what's happening: In the time that they have been in office, in the last four years, 1.6 million private sector jobs have been lost, 2.7 million manufacturing jobs have been lost. And it's had real consequences in places like Cleveland. Cleveland's a wonderful, distinguished city that's done a lot of great things. But it has the highest poverty rate in the country. One out of almost two children in Cleveland are now living in poverty. 
 During the time that the vice president and the president have been in office, four million more Americans have fallen into poverty. And the most striking and startling thing is they are the first presidency in 70 years -- and I'm talking Democrats, Republicans, presidencies -- presidents who led us through world war, through the Korean War, the Vietnam War, cold war, every one of them created jobs until this president. 
 We have to do better. We have a plan. We're going to get rid of tax -- by the way, they're for outsourcing jobs. I want to make sure people hear that. It's a fundamental difference for -- with us. The administration says over and over that the outsourcing of millions of American jobs is good. We're against it. We want to get rid of tax cuts for companies sending jobs overseas. We want to balance this budget, get back to fiscal responsibility. And we want to invest in the creative, innovative jobs of the future.
 MS. IFILL -- Mr. Vice President.
 MR. CHENEY -- Gwen, we've got 111 million American taxpayers that have benefited from our income tax cuts. We've got 33 million students who've benefited from No Child Left Behind. We've got 40 million seniors who benefited from the reform of the Medicare system. The Democrats promised prescription drug benefits for years. They've run on that platform. They never got it done. The president got it done. We also dropped five million people totally off the federal income tax rolls so they no longer have to pay any federal income tax at all. So the story I think is a good one and the data he's using is old data. It's from 2003. It doesn't include any of the gains that we've made in the last year. We've added 1.7 million jobs to the economy. 
 Gwen, the Kerry record on taxes is one basically of voting for a large number of tax increases, 98 times in the United States Senate. There's a fundamental philosophical difference here between the president and myself, who believe that we ought to let the American people keep more of what they earn, and we ought to empower them to have more control over their own lives. I think the Kerry Edwards approach basically is to raise taxes and to give government more control over the lives of individual citizens. We think it's the wrong way to go. There's a fundamental difference of opinion here. 

Same-Sex Marriage
 MS. IFILL -- Next question goes to you, Mr. Vice President. I want to read something you said four years ago at this very setting: Freedom means freedom for everybody. You said it again recently when you were asked about legalizing same-sex unions, and you used your family as an experience -- your family experience as a context for your remarks. Can you describe, then, your administration's support for a constitutional ban on same-sex unions?
 MR. CHENEY -- Gwen, you're right. Four years ago in this debate, the subject came up and I said then, and believe today, that freedom does mean freedom for everybody. People ought to be free to choose any arrangement they want. It's really no one else's business. 
 That's a separate question from the issue of whether or not government should sanction or approve or give some sort of authorization, if you will, to these relationships. Traditionally, that's been an issue for the states. States have regulated marriage, if you will. That would be my preference.
 In effect, what's happened is that in recent months, especially in Massachusetts but also in California, but in Massachusetts, we had the Massachusetts Supreme Court direct the State of -- the Legislature of Massachusetts -- to modify their constitution to allow gay marriage. And the fact is that the president felt that it was important to make it clear that -- that that's the wrong way to go, as far as he's concerned. Now, he sets policy for this administration, and I support the president.
 MS. IFILL -- Senator Edwards, 90 seconds.
 MR. EDWARDS -- Yes. Let me say, first, on an issue that the vice president said in his last answer before we got to this question, talking about tax policy. The country needs to know that under what they have put in place and want to put in place, they -- millionaires sitting by their swimming pool, collecting their statements to see how much money they're making, make their money from dividends, pays a lower tax rate than the men and women who are receiving paychecks for serving on the ground in Iraq. Now, they may think that's right. John Kerry and I do not. We don't just value wealth, which they do. We value work in this country. And it is a fundamental value difference between them and us.
 Now as to this question, let me say, first, that I think the vice president and his wife love their daughter. I think they love her very much. And -- and you can't have anything but respect for the fact that they're willing to talk about the fact that they have a gay daughter, the fact that they embrace her. It's a wonderful thing. And there are millions of parents like that who love their children, who want their children to be happy.
 And I -- I believe that marriage is between a man and a woman, and so does John Kerry. I also believe there should be partnership benefits for gay and lesbian couples in long-term committed relationships. But we should not use the Constitution to divide this country. No state for the last 200 years has ever had to recognize another state's marriage. This is using the Constitution as a political tool, and it's wrong. 
 MS. IFILL -- Mr. Vice President, you have 90 seconds.
 MR. CHENEY -- Well, Gwen, let me simply thank the senator for the kind words he said about my family and our daughter. I appreciate that very much.
 MR. EDWARDS -- You're welcome.
 MS. IFILL -- That's it?
 MR. CHENEY -- That's it.

Trial Lawyers and Liability
 MS. IFILL -- This one is for you, Mr. Vice President. President Bush has derided John Kerry for putting a trial lawyer on the ticket. You yourself have said that lawsuits are partly to blame for higher medical costs. Are you willing to say that John Edwards sitting here has been part of the problem?
 MR. CHENEY -- Well, Gwen --
 MS. IFILL -- Mr. Vice President?
 MR. CHENEY -- I -- first of all I'm not familiar with his cases. My concern is specifically with what's happened to our medical care system because of rising malpractice insurance rates because we failed to adequately reform our medical liability structure.
 I was in New Mexico the other day and met with a group of OB-GYN docs. And they were deeply concerned because they were fearful that there'd be another increase in malpractice insurance rates as a result of what they believe are frivolous lawsuits, and that that would put them out of business. One doctor indicated that her rates have gone up so much that she's now to the point where she is screening patients. She won't take high-risk patients anymore because of the danger that that will generate a lawsuit and a lawsuit will put her out of business.
 This has had a devastating impact in a lot of communities. My home state of Wyoming, we've lost the top insurer of malpractice insurance in the state. The rates for a general practitioner have gone from $40,000 a year to $100,000 a year for an insurance policy. We think this has a devastating impact on the quality of health care -- as I say, high-risk patients don't get covered anymore. We've lost one out of 11 OB-GYN practitioners in the country. We think it can be fixed. Needs to be fixed.
 Now specifically, what we need to do is cap noneconomic damages. And we also think you need to limit the awards that the trial attorneys take out of this. Over 50 percent of the settlements go to the attorneys and for administrative overhead. 
 We've passed medical liability reform through the House of Representatives. It's been blocked in the Senate. Senator Kerry's voted 10 times against medical liability reform. And I don't believe Senator Edwards supports it either. Not the kind that would be meaningful.
 MS. IFILL -- Senator Edwards.
 MR. EDWARDS -- Yes, well, let me say, first of all, I am proud of the work I did on behalf of kids and families against big insurance companies, big drug companies and big H.M.O.'s. 
 We do have too many lawsuits and the reality is there's something that we can do about it. John Kerry and I have a plan to do something about it. We want to put more responsibility on the lawyers to require before a case of malpractice, which the vice president just spoke about; have the case reviewed by independent experts, who determine the case is serious and meritorious before it can be filed; hold the lawyers responsible for that to certify that and hold the lawyers financially responsible if they don't do it; have a three-strikes-and-you're-out rule so that a lawyer who files three of these cases without meeting this requirement loses their right to file these cases. That way we keep the cases out of the system that don't belong in the system.
 They talk about frivolous cases. We believe cases that don't belong in the system should never be in the system. But we don't believe that we should take away the rights of people like Valerie Lakey, who was a young girl who I represented, 5 years old, severely injured for life on a defective swimming pool drain cover. It turns out the company knew of 12 other children who had either been killed or severely injured by the same problem. They hid it. They didn't tell anybody. They could have fixed it with a two-cent screw. That's wrong.
 John Kerry and I are always going to stand with the Valerie Lakeys of the world and not with the insurance companies.

Closing Statements
 MR. EDWARDS -- You know, when I was young and growing up, I remember coming down the steps into the kitchen early in the morning. And I would see the glow of the television. And I'd see my father sitting at a table. He wasn't paying bills, and he wasn't doing paperwork from work. What he was doing was learning math on television. Now, he didn't have a college education. But he was doing what he could do to get a better job in the mill where he worked. I was proud of him. And still proud of him. 
 And I was also hopeful because I knew that I lived in a country where I could get a college education. Here's the truth. I have grown up in the bright light of America. But that light is flickering today. Now, I know that the vice president and the president don't see it. But you do. You see it when your incomes are going down and the cost of everything -- college tuition, health care -- is going through the roof. You see it when you sit at your table each night and there's an empty chair because a loved one is serving in Iraq or Afghanistan. What they're going to give you is four more years of the same. 
 John Kerry and I believe that we can do better. We believe in a strong middle class in this country. That's why we have a plan to create jobs, getting rid of tax cuts for companies outsourcing your jobs, give tax cuts to companies that'll keep jobs here in America. It's why we have a health care plan. It's why we have a plan to keep you safe and to fix -- fix this mess in Iraq. 
 The truth is that every four years you get to decide. You have the ability to decide where America's going to go. John Kerry and I are asking you to give us the power to fight for you, to fight to keep that -- that dream in America that I saw as a young man, alive for every parent sitting at that kitchen table. 
 MR. CHENEY -- It's been a privilege to serve as your vice president these last four years and to work alongside President Bush to put our economy on an upward path. We've cut taxes, added 1.7 million new jobs in the last year, and we'll continue to provide opportunities for business and for workers. We won't be happy until every American who wants to work can find a job. 
 We believe that all Americans ought to have access to available -- to medical care and that they ought to have access to the finest schools in the world. We'll do everything we can to preserve Social Security and to make certain that it's there for future generations. I worked for four presidents and watched two others up close, and I know that there's no such thing as a routine day in the Oval Office. We say on 9/11 that the next decision a president has to make can affect the lives of all of us.
 Now we find ourselves in the midst of a conflict unlike any we've ever known, faced with a possibility that terrorists could smuggle a deadly biological agent or nuclear weapon into the middle of one of our own cities. That threat and the presidential leadership needed to deal with it is placing a special responsibility on all of you who will decide in Nov. 2 who will be our commander in chief. The only viable option for winning the war on terror is the one the president's chosen, using the power of the United States to aggressively go after the terrorists wherever we find them and also to hold to account states that sponsor terror. Now that we've captured or killed thousands of Al Qaeda and taken down the regimes of Saddam Hussein and the Taliban, it's important that we stand up democratically elected governments as the only guarantee that they'll never again revert to terrorism and the production of deadly weapons. 
 This is the task of our generation and I know firsthand the strength the president brings to it. The overall outcome will depend upon the ability of the American people and the strong leadership of the president to meet all the challenges that we'll face in the days and years ahead. I'm confident we can do it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL DEBATES (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TERRORISM (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); TRANSCRIPTS (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); SMUGGLING (61%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (88%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (76%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (91%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (91%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



146 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE POLICY; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: When Points Weren't Personal, Liberties Were Taken With the Truth

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM; Contributing reporting for this article were David E. Sanger, Edmund L. Andrews, Robert Pear and Scott Shane.

 BODY:
In a debate laden with detailed assertions and rebuttals more than by rhetorical flashes, Vice President Dick Cheney and Senator John Edwards often stretched the facts last night on issues from the war in Iraq to medical malpractice lawsuits.
 Often the matters were old saws, like the Edwards suggestion of an improper relationship between the Bush administration and the Halliburton Company, or the Cheney assertion that Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential nominee and Mr. Edwards's running mate, had voted nearly 100 times to raise taxes. 
 But on matters like Iraq, taxes and jobs, the liberties the vice presidential candidates took with the truth are worthy of scrutiny.

Iraq and Al Qaeda
 Mr. Edwards accused the vice president of having justified the invasion of Iraq by saying a link existed between Iraq and Al Qaeda. Mr. Cheney declared: ''I have not suggested there is a connection between Iraq and 9/11.'' 
 What Mr. Cheney said was only partly true, because while he has never explicitly made the link, he has on several occasions strongly suggested that evidence pointed to such a connection.
 The vice president went furthest along these lines on Sept. 8, 2002, on NBC's ''Meet the Press.'' 
 ''I'm not here today to make a specific allegation that Iraq was somehow responsible for 9/11,'' he said. ''I can't say that. On the other hand,'' he went on to say, since a previous interview on the show, ''new information has come to light,'' adding ''there has been reporting that suggest that there have been a number of contacts over the years.'' 
 He said that Mohamed Atta, one of the lead Sept. 11 hijackers, was ''in Prague with a senior Iraqi intelligence official a few months before the attack on the World Trade Center. The debates about, you know, was he there or wasn't he there, again, it's the intelligence business.''
 Investigations later concluded that Mr. Atta was not in Prague at that time. Nor did Mr. Cheney's frequent accusations of deep contacts between Iraq and al Qaeda hold up, though there apparently were contacts. A bipartisan Senate Intelligence Committee report concluded: '''The Central Intelligence Agency reasonably assessed that there were likely several instances of contacts between Iraq and Al Qaeda throughout the 1990's but that these contacts did not add up to an established formal relationship.'' 
 The Senate report added that the C.I.A's assessment that ''there was no evidence proving Iraqi complicity or assistance in an Al Qaeda attack was responsible and objective.''

Weapons votes
 Mr. Cheney said that Mr. Kerry had repeatedly voted against spending for military weapons systems in the last years of the cold war. That is true. But Mr. Cheney, as secretary of defense in the first Bush administration, opposed some of the systems himself, including the Apache helicopter and the F-14 aircraft.

Halliburton
 Mr. Edwards suggested an improper relationship between the Bush administration and Halliburton, the company with large contracts in Iraq that Mr. Cheney led before he ran for vice president. 
 Mr. Edwards was right that Halliburton holds a no-bid contract for services in Iraq, is under investigation for overcharges and is still being paid by the government. But there is no evidence Mr. Cheney has pulled strings on Halliburton's behalf since becoming vice president. And the independent General Accountability Office concluded that Halliburton was the only company that could have provided the services the Army needed at the outset of the war and was thus justified in having received the noncompetitive contract.

War costs and casualties
 Some factual disputes were echoes from last week's debate between the presidential candidates, including the cost of the war -- Mr. Edwards put the figure at $200 billion, but only $119 billion has been spent so far. Another issue was the proportion of casualties borne by the United States: Mr. Edwards said 90 percent of fatalities, but that includes only foreign troops killed, and does not count approximately 700 Iraqi security forces said to have died.

Taxes
 Mr. Edwards said that under the Bush-Cheney tax laws, millionaires receiving dividends paid taxes at a lower rate than troops fighting in Iraq. The 2003 tax law lowered the rate on stock dividends to 15 percent. Many soldiers pay a rate higher than that on some of their income.
 Mr. Cheney said that Mr. Kerry had voted 98 times to raise taxes. No question, he cast votes for higher taxes. But the number Mr. Cheney cited included multiple votes on the same legislation. Mr. Edwards said Mr. Kerry had voted against the overall legislation because the benefits went largely to the wealthy.
 Mr. Cheney said that 900,000 small businesses would be affected by the Kerry proposal to raise taxes on individuals with incomes of more than $200,000. The Tax Policy Center found that only about 5 percent of small businesses would be affected by the Kerry plan and that much of the income of the business operators who would be affected came from sources other than their businesses.

Afghanistan
 Mr. Cheney said that two and a half years ago, Mr. Edwards said the situation in Afghanistan ''was chaotic, the situation was deteriorating, the warlords were about to take over.'' Noting that elections are scheduled to take place in four days, the vice president said his opponent ''just got it wrong.''
 In an October 2002 speech in Washington, Mr. Edwards called Afghanistan ''largely unstable,'' with much of the country ''under the control of drug lords and warlords.''
 Last night Mr. Edwards stuck to essentially that description, saying that contrary to the ''rosy scenario'' described by Mr. Cheney, ''What's actually happened is, they're now providing 75 percent of the world's opium'' and ''large parts of the country are under the control of drug lords and warlords.''
 The Drug Enforcement Administration has reported that opium production in Afghanistan has indeed soared since the end of Taliban rule in 2001, from 74 metric tons in 2001 to 2,965 metric tons last year. The government of President Hamid Karzai does not control large parts of the country.

Jobs
 Mr. Edwards said that the nation has lost 1.6 million private-sector jobs since Mr. Bush took office, while Mr. Cheney said the nation has added 1.7 million jobs in the past year.
 According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the number of payroll jobs has declined by about 900,000 since Mr. Bush took office. Mr. Edwards's higher number comes from isolating private-sector jobs, not taking into account increases in state, local and federal government jobs.
 Mr. Cheney was correct in saying that the nation has added about 1.7 million jobs in the past year. What he did not say is employment has yet to return to its level before the recession of 2001 and the sharp decline in manufacturing employment that continued nearly two years after the recession officially ended in November 2001.
 More importantly, in the view of many economists, employment growth has lagged even further behind the growth in population. The nation's adult work force climbs by more than a million people every year. So even if the number of jobs returns to its level in January 2001, as many as three million more people would still be unemployed or underemployed than they were at that time.

Voting records
 Mr. Cheney said correctly that Mr. Edwards had missed most votes in the Senate this year, as well as many committee meetings. Candidates for president and vice president generally skip all but the most important votes because they are out of town on the campaign trail. 
 Mr. Cheney said that Mr. Edwards had been absent so often that he had never even met him before last night. Mr. Edwards said later last night that they had actually met twice before, at a prayer breakfast in 2001 and at the swearing-in last year of Senator Elizabeth Dole of North Carolina. 
 Mr. Edwards was correct in saying that Mr. Cheney, as a member of the House, had voted against such measures as the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, Head Start and creation of the Department of Education.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 7, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday that examined statements by Vice President Dick Cheney and Senator John Edwards in their debate on Tuesday night incorrectly supported Mr. Edwards's statement that millionaires who receive stock dividends pay ''a lower tax rate than the men and women who are receiving paychecks for serving on the ground in Iraq.'' While some military officers may pay a higher rate, most soldiers do not. The monthly pay of enlisted troops in Iraq, as in other combat zones -- and the pay of officers there, up to a ceiling -- is exempt from federal income taxes.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Vice President Dick Cheney, above, and Senator John Edwards both strayed from the facts at times during their debate last night. (Photo by Dom Emmert/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
(Photo by Mark Duncan/Associated Press)
 (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); AL-QAEDA (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (72%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (72%); COLD WAR (72%); LITIGATION (72%); HIJACKING (62%); DEFENSE SPENDING (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); Debating; Terrorism; Taxation; Labor

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (72%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (72%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (72%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (72%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (72%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (93%); DICK CHENEY (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%) David E Rosenbaum; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



147 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; A Clash of Goals In Bush's Efforts On the Income Tax; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: Proposals Would Shift Burden From Wealthy to Middle Class

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
As he campaigns for re-election, President Bush is vowing to lead a bipartisan effort to overhaul the personal income tax and make it ''simpler, fairer and progrowth.''
 Almost all experts agree that the current tax code is hideously complicated and often unfair. But they also say that accomplishing any fundamental change will be hideously difficult, in part because Mr. Bush's goals clash with one another and with some of his own initiatives.
 Republican and Democratic tax experts caution that making the tax code simpler would almost certainly set off a fierce political battle over the issue of fairness, because most options under discussion would shift a substantial share of the tax burden from high-income families to middle-income earners. 
 Making the tax code simpler also clashes with other agendas. Even as he denounced the ''special interest loopholes'' last month at the Republican National Convention, for example, Mr. Bush suggested potentially popular new tax breaks for home builders and businesses that invest in poor communities.
 Since taking office in 2001, Mr. Bush has either supported or condoned scores of other tax breaks for oil and gas production, small business owners, hydrogen-powered cars, families with children and many other purposes.
 This week, working to repair a flaw in the corporate tax system that violates global trade rules, House and Senate Republicans are negotiating a business tax bill that would add hundreds of additional special-interest tax breaks. Running more than 700 pages long, the bill includes tax favors for multinational drug companies, Alaska pipeline developers, car dealers, shopping mall developers and even oil service companies that set up foreign headquarters to escape American taxes.
 On Monday, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow complained that the corporate tax bill has ''a myriad of special-interest provisions that benefit few taxpayers,'' but he stopped well short of suggesting that Mr. Bush might veto it.
 Mr. Bush has not provided specifics on what he means by ''fundamental tax reform,'' but many Republicans and some of his campaign advisers view his call as one that would replace the income tax with a system that would basically tax personal consumption, effectively eliminating levies on investment and savings.
 ''It's hard to know what pops out at the end of the legislative process,'' cautioned Tim Adams, domestic policy coordinator for the Bush campaign. But ''this has the opportunity to confront a number of challenges, to put in place a tax structure that promotes long-term growth, capital formation and savings.''
 Supporters of a consumption tax, which can take many different forms, say it could be far simpler than today's system and would greatly increase incentives for people to save and to invest.
 The options range from a flat tax on wages to some sort of national sales tax to an income tax that excludes almost all earnings from investment and business profits. Best of all, from the viewpoint of many economists, would be a pure consumption tax, which requires people to pay taxes only on the amount of money they spend each year.
 To Republicans, ''most of the tax reform ideas revolve around the idea of taxing consumption,'' said Representative Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and a staunch proponent of a major tax overhaul. ''It can be a flat tax or a sales tax or anything in between, but all of those are consumption taxes.''
 The political obstacles, however, are enormous. An internal report by the Treasury Department in 2002, which analyzed five approaches to tax reform, concluded that either a flat income tax or a flat consumption tax would benefit higher income families at the expense of others.
 ''Any reform is likely to have vocal losers and largely silent winners,'' said the report, which was recently made public by Ron Suskind, author of a book on Paul H. O'Neill, Mr. Bush's first Treasury secretary. ''In other countries, adoption of a consumption tax has led to election losses for the incumbent party.''
 Indeed, Senator John Kerry, the Democratic nominee, has said he opposes all proposals aimed at replacing the income tax with either some variation of a flat income tax, a national sales tax, or a consumption tax that would allow people to shelter virtually all their investment income.
 ''John Kerry's view is that all the proposals in this area are regressive and would not advance any of the important goals of creating a tax that is simpler, fairer and progrowth,'' said Jason Furman, an economic policy adviser to Mr. Kerry's campaign. 
 Republican tax experts acknowledge that tax reform would ignite a bitter battle over fairness.
 ''Contrary to popular belief, the existing tax system is very progressive,'' said Kenneth Kies, a tax lobbyist and former staff director of the Joint Committee on Taxation. ''The rich basically pay the income tax. It's very hard to take any of the reform options out there and do them without having a progressivity problem.''
 Supporters of a consumption tax or a flat income tax say such a system could still place a heavier tax burden on high-income people. A system that imposed a national sales tax or a European-style value-added tax, for example, could provide rebates to lower income people and include an extra tax for people with high incomes.
 But most experts say it would be hard to design a consumption tax that did not shift some of the tax burden away from high-income taxpayers, because most taxable investment income goes to a very small slice of people at the very top of the income spectrum. Wealthy people typically spend a smaller share of their earnings than those with less income.
 Leonard E. Burman, a senior analyst at the Urban Institute, estimated that half of all stock dividends in 2000 went to the top 3.8 percent of households, those with incomes higher than $200,000 a year. Wealthy people also devote a much smaller share of their incomes to consumption -- about a third for families with incomes above $200,000, compared with about 93 percent for families with incomes between $20,000 and $30,000.
 ''You cannot do reform without spending a huge amount of money and identifying a huge number of losers,'' Mr. Burman said. ''It's almost impossible to design a consumption tax that doesn't shift some of the tax burden from high-income tax payers.''
 Pamela F. Olson, a former assistant secretary for tax policy under President Bush who wrote the Treasury Department memorandum on tax reform in 2002, said the current system is so complex and opaque that many taxpayers already view it as extremely unfair.
 ''The system is terribly broken, and we waste a tremendous amount of resources on it,'' said Ms. Olson, who is now a partner at the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom. ''It's so complex that people can't tell what their tax liability is until they file their returns. That creates a perception of unfairness, which undermines the whole system.''
 But Mr. Bush already faces resistance to some of his tax ideas from within the Republican Party. Indeed, Mr. Bush backed off his proposal this year for lifetime savings accounts, which would let people earn investment income tax free and spend it whenever they pleased. One reason is that Representative Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio and a key lawmaker on pension issues, complained that the proposal would reduce incentives to save specifically for retirement.
 Tax reform could easily clash with Mr. Bush's call for an ownership society. Even as he called for a simpler system at the Republican convention, he proposed new tax breaks for businesses that build single-family homes and implied that he would preserve the deduction for home mortgage interest.
 ''You can't separate the ownership society and tax reform,'' said C. Eugene Steuerle, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute who coordinated the Treasury Department's last big effort at overhauling the income tax, under President Reagan in 1986. ''We now have $150 billion in housing subsidies, most of that in the tax system.''
 For all the obstacles, supporters of tax reform have one big factor on their side: an urgent need to change the alternative minimum tax before it ignites a political firestorm. The alternative tax was created years ago in an attempt to limit the extent to which high-income people could use arcane tax deductions to shield their earnings.
 But the alternative tax is not indexed for inflation, which means that it is on track to hit 30 million mostly upper-middle-class families by 2010 (the truly rich, for a variety of reasons, almost always escape the alternative tax), imposing additional taxes on them beyond the requirements of the ordinary tax code.
 Neither Mr. Bush nor Mr. Kerry wants that to happen, but preventing it is expected to cost a least $500 billion over 10 years and would probably require major changes in the rest of the tax code to avoid further widening the budget deficit.
 ''Ultimately, this is going to force us to make changes,'' said Representative Michael C. Burgess, a Texas Republican who is pushing for a flat tax. ''The A.M.T. means we have the wind at our backs.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (pg. C1)Chart: ''Taxing the Top''The top 20 percent of all taxpayers, based on income, pay more than 80 percent of all federal income taxes and almost two-thirds of all federal taxes. But taxpayers in that group, as a whole, pay less than 25 percent of their total adjusted gross income in taxes.Share of 2004 federal individual income taxes, by income groupTop 1%individual income taxes: 32.3%Effective tax rate: 19.7%1% to 5%individual income taxes: 21.4Effective tax rate: 17.65% to 10%individual income taxes: 13.0%Effective tax rate: 16.0%10% to 20%individual income taxes: 15.4Effective tax rate: 14.2Share of 2004 total federal taxes, by income groupTop 1%total federal taxes: 20.1Effective tax rate: 26.71% to 5%total federal taxes: 15.8Effective tax rate: 25.65% to 10%total federal taxes: 11.7Effective tax rate: 24.910% to 20%total federal taxes: 15.9Effective tax rate: 23.8(Source by Congressional Budget Office)(pg. C1)Chart: ''The Wealth Effect''As taxpayers' incomes rise, so does the percentage of their income from capital gains and dividends.ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME, IN 2000: $1 to $50,000PERCENTAGE OF INCOME FROM CAPITAL GAINS AND DIVIDENDS: 3.0%ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME, IN 2000: $50,000 to $100,000PERCENTAGE OF INCOME FROM CAPITAL GAINS AND DIVIDENDS: 4.0ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME, IN 2000: $100,000 to $500,000PERCENTAGE OF INCOME FROM CAPITAL GAINS AND DIVIDENDS: 11.5ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME, IN 2000: $500,000 to $1 millionPERCENTAGE OF INCOME FROM CAPITAL GAINS AND DIVIDENDS: 24.7ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME, IN 2000: $1 million to $10 millionPERCENTAGE OF INCOME FROM CAPITAL GAINS AND DIVIDENDS: 37.6ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME, IN 2000: $10 million and upPERCENTAGE OF INCOME FROM CAPITAL GAINS AND DIVIDENDS: 61.4(Source by Tax Policy Center)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX LAW (92%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX REFORM (89%); SALES TAX (89%); EXCISE TAX (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); RETAIL PROPERTY (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (67%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (67%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (66%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (66%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (66%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (66%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (64%); RETAILERS (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (63%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%) Taxation; Election Issues; Law and Legislation; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



148 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Party Promotes Huge Meadowlands Project as Critics Raise Concerns

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J., Oct. 5 

 BODY:
As developers unveiled plans on Tuesday for a $1.3 billion sports and entertainment complex in the Meadowlands, critics raised questions about access to jobs and the potential impact on traffic and on air and water quality. 
 The project, known as Meadowlands Xanadu, is billed by its developers as the ''ultimate sports, leisure, family entertainment and shopping complex in the United States.'' To celebrate the project's groundbreaking, the developers staged a celebrity-studded party on Tuesday to preview some of Xanadu's planned attractions, including an indoor ski slope. 
 The event drew politicians and business leaders from Bergen County, where the project will be adjacent to the Continental Airlines Arena on land leased from the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority. 
 But officials from neighboring Hudson County, though invited, stayed away from the event and later complained that the project's developers had ignored their suggestion to extend the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail line to the site. Without that rail line, they said, the county's poor and immigrant populations would have a difficult time getting to the Meadowlands and competing for some of the 20,000 permanent jobs that are expected to result. 
 Current plans call for a 1.5-mile heavy-rail spur into the site from the Pascack Valley line of New Jersey Transit as the commuter line skirts the western edge of the Meadowlands on the way to the Secaucus transfer station. By contrast, the light rail line runs east of the Meadowlands through most of the Hudson County towns that line the Hudson River. 
 Assembly Speaker Albio Sires, who is also the mayor of West New York in Hudson County, said county officials had agreed to support the project despite concerns about its economic impact on their downtowns after state officials said they would seriously consider extending the light rail system. 
 ''I'm not against the heavy rail,'' Mr. Sires said. ''But it seems that in running this publicity machine for Xanadu they have lost sight of the need for light rail. A lot of us feel that we are getting nothing but lip service.''
 State officials say they are still considering a light rail extension to Xanadu but have no current plans to do so.
 Mr. Sires observed that the project's developers and the sports authority may still need help from the State Legislature to finance road and sewer improvements. ''There are a lot of things they still have to do,'' he said. ''They have to come to the Assembly for a lot of things, and I have learned a lot in the last year or so.''
 Another critic, Jeff Tittel, the director of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club, said Tuesday that a coalition of groups that had challenged the project as it sought state and federal permits would ratchet up their opposition and go to court to block it. He said the project would increase traffic congestion and pollute the air and water. 
 ''This is what I call a snow job,'' he said, adding that another lawsuit to stop the project, brought by an unsuccessful bidder for development rights at the site, is pending. 
 But William Sheehan, the Hackensack River keeper, said 600 acres of wetlands would be preserved as part of the project. ''The land is in the hands of the conservation trust now, and so we never have to worry about it being developed,'' he said.
 The sports authority agreed on Monday to a 175-year lease with the developers. Under the deal, the developers will pay the state $160 million in nine installments, and the state will pay one of the developers, the Mills Corporation, $26 million for 600 acres of wetlands it had acquired to build a mall. The developers -- Mills, of Arlington, Va.; Mack-Cali Realty of Cranford, N.J.; and KanAm, based in Germany -- also agreed to pay $65 million for road improvements and the rail extension, and to pay 14 towns $12 million a year in lieu of taxes.
 To celebrate the agreement and preview Xanadu, the chief executives of the joint venture that will develop the complex gathered with celebrities including the model Christie Brinkley and the television personality Chris Harrison in the parking lot of the Continental Airlines Arena. Under large white tents, they said the complex would be built around five themes -- sports, education, food and home, entertainment and fashion.
 They stood on a high platform next to a snow-covered ski jump. An acrobatic skier and a snowboarder schussed down, did a flip in the air and stopped in a spray of snow.
 One of the features of the complex's sports-themed section will be the Snowdome, permitting year-round indoor skiing, a ski-lodge setting and stores selling ski equipment. The entertainment section will offer programs arranged by Entertainment Weekly magazine. The fashion area will be supervised by Elle magazine, and the food and home area will include a cooking school and other activities arranged by Viking, the appliance manufacturer.
 Gov. James E. McGreevey, who had championed the development, waxed poetic at the ceremony, invoking Coleridge's poem ''Xanadu,'' which describes a ''stately pleasure-dome'' decreed by Kubla Kahn.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A ski jump was tested yesterday in a tent outside the Continental Airlines Arena before developers and officials of Meadowlands Xanadu.
 A model of the multiplex movie theater in the $1.3 billion complex reveals an Egyptian theme. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); CELEBRITIES (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); POLITICS (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); SKIING (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); MAYORS (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (56%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: ALBIO SIRES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



149 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Senate Examining (Again) Constitutional Ban on Foreign-Born Presidents

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
Is America ready for President Schwarzenegger?
 It was not so long ago that even the concept of Arnold Schwarzenegger as a governor seemed improbable. A recall effort took care of that, and now Congress is examining in earnest how Mr. Schwarzenegger, the Republican governor of California, who was born in Austria, or any other naturalized American could rise to the highest office in the land. 
 More than a year after lawmakers in the House and Senate proposed a constitutional amendment to allow citizens born elsewhere to be president, the Senate Judiciary Committee gave the issue new momentum on Tuesday with a hearing that let proponents argue why the constitutional restriction should be eliminated.
 ''It is time for us, the elected representatives of this nation of immigrants, to begin the process that can result in removing this artificial, outdated, unnecessary and unfair barrier,'' Senator Orrin G. Hatch, the committee chairman, said of Article II, Section 1, Clause 5 of the Constitution, which sets forth the eligibility requirements for president.
 Mr. Hatch, a Utah Republican, presided over a lively but mostly one-sided discussion that included testimony from five lawmakers who have sponsored measures proposing a constitutional amendment and two academics who favor the concept.
 A sixth lawmaker, Senator Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma, said he preferred expanding presidential eligibility through legislation. That idea appealed to another witness, Matthew Spalding of the Heritage Foundation, a conservative organization, who said any change should not take effect ''for 10 years or so, when the current candidates are not on the scene.'' 
 By design, constitutional amendments face enormous hurdles, needing approval by two-thirds vote in the House and Senate and three-quarters of the states. Just 27 have passed since 1787, and 12 previous efforts since 1868 to remove the restriction on foreign-born presidents have failed. 
 Much of the discussion at the hearing sought to figure out the motives of the founding fathers to limit the presidency to people who were citizens at the time of the adoption of the Constitution and then to native-born people. 
 Alexander Hamilton's name came up more often than Mr. Schwarzenegger's, but unlike Hamilton, who was born on Nevis in the British West Indies, Mr. Schwarzenegger had a backer in the audience, a woman who gave out buttons, T-shirts and bumper stickers that said ''Amend for Arnold.''
 Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan, a Democrat, whose family moved to California from Canada in 1963, when she was 4, had no such material support at the hearing. But Ms. Granholm and Mr. Schwarzenegger, who emigrated in 1968 as a 21-year-old bodybuilder, agree that people like them should be afforded the same constitutional rights as native Americans.
 ''You can't choose where you are born, but you can choose where you live and where you swear your allegiance,'' Ms. Granholm said through a press aide. ''If the concern is about loyalty to America, which it is, then a requirement that a naturalized citizen has lived in this country for 25 or more years should alleviate that concern.''
 Ms. Granholm said, ''This is not about me; I have no interest, not a whit, in running from president.'' 
 That is not necessarily true of Mr. Schwarzenegger. Last February on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC, he said a constitutional amendment clearing the way for naturalized citizens to be president would be ''really good.''
 ''I think that, you know, times have changed,'' he said. ''I think this is now a much more global economy. I think there's so many people here in this country that are now from overseas, that are immigrants, that are doing such a terrific job with the work, bringing businesses here and all this, that there's no reason why not.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Jennifer Granholm of Michigan and Joe Dumars, the president of the Detroit Pistons, last month. Ms. Granholm was born in Canada. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); APPROVALS (76%); REFERENDUMS (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); REFUGEES (69%) United States Politics and Government; Constitutional Amendments; Presidents and Presidency (US); Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT PISTONS (59%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (54%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (92%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (89%); ORRIN HATCH (79%) Michael Janofsky; Orrin G (Sen) Hatch; Jennifer M (Gov) Granholm; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (78%); SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



150 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: The Running Mates Debate

 BODY:
During the final summation in last night's vice-presidential debate, John Edwards focused on the new Kerry campaign theme: that a vote for George Bush and Dick Cheney would mean ''four more years of the same.'' And Mr. Cheney, when his turn came, said it was important to re-elect the president so he could keep doing what he has been doing. It was a rare moment of agreement. 
 Like the presidential foreign policy debate that preceded it, the clash of the vice-presidential candidates was 90 minutes of serious talk about the issues. 
 It was also very hard-fought -- the contenders managed to be remarkably aggressive for two men who were sitting next to each other at a small table. Mr. Cheney called Mr. Edwards's remarks so thick with misrepresentation that he hardly knew how to respond. Mr. Edwards, when talking about the economy, said, ''Mr. Vice President, I don't think the country can take four more years of this kind of experience.'' 
 Mr. Cheney, who won over many voters four years ago with his grandfatherly demeanor during a debate with Joseph Lieberman, seemed tired and angry. He was particularly dyspeptic when he responded to criticism of his relationship with Halliburton by claiming that Mr. Edwards had a bad attendance record in the Senate.
 Mr. Edwards is normally known for his wide grin and boyish appearance, but he was serious and tough last night. If his main task was to show that he could stand up to the older and more experienced vice president, he did everything he needed to do, especially during the discussion of foreign policy -- the area that is supposed to be his weak suit. Mr. Edwards was particularly on point when Mr. Cheney attacked John Kerry as a lawmaker who had consistently voted against military expenditures. Much of the arms spending Mr. Kerry voted against, Mr. Edwards noted, was for the same programs Mr. Cheney had fought to cut when he was secretary of defense.
 When talk turned to Iraq, viewers must have wondered whether the two men were discussing the same war. Mr. Cheney stuck to the Bush administration's mantra, insisting that the invasion had been carried out for all the right reasons and that things were going well in Iraq, and very well indeed in Afghanistan. Mr. Edwards described a war that was badly planned, launched on the basis of incorrect intelligence and turned into a morass that sucks American attention away from a struggling Afghanistan and the war on terror.
 Mr. Cheney had by far the harder job because even loyal supporters of the administration acknowledge that things are not going all that well overseas. It was hard to seem credible when he insisted repeatedly that the Bush administration had done ''exactly the right thing'' in Iraq and that if he had to do it again, he would recommend the ''same course of action.'' 
 One of the most poignant moments in the evening occurred when Mr. Cheney, who has a gay daughter, was asked about the administration's support for a constitutional amendment against gay marriage. He danced gingerly around the topic, expressing loyalty to the president without indicating that he really agreed with him. After Mr. Edwards said he admired the vice president's support for his daughter, Mr. Cheney declined to discuss the matter further, limiting himself simply to thanking his opponent for his comments.
 That moment of congeniality aside, if those famous few undecided voters were waiting for a real debate about different positions and philosophies, they got it last night.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); TERRORISM (67%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (62%); DEFENSE SPENDING (62%) Presidential Election of 2004; Editorials; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); Election Issues; Terrorism; Debating

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; John (Sen) Edwards; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



151 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Director of U.N. Nuclear Agency, in Seoul, Cautions Both Koreas

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Wednesday, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
Speaking on Korea's heavily armed peninsula, where North Korea claims to have built bombs and South Korea has experimented in nuclear weapons technology, the head of the United Nations atomic watchdog agency warned Wednesday that nuclear weapons will not go away until a proven collective framework exists to bring security to the region. 
 The official, Mohamed El Baradei, the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, who was concluding a four-day visit to South Korea, urged Seoul to maintain transparency over its nuclear program. He said more teams would come here soon to seek additional information about several experiments that South Korean scientists have conducted, apparently in violation of nuclear control accords. 
 Turning to North Korea, which expelled his inspectors almost two years ago, Dr. El Baradei said he would visit there ''at any time.'' 
 North Korea in recent weeks has boycotted regional talks on its nuclear weapons program. Instead, it has described the tests by South Korea as being part of a nuclear weapons program that is forcing the North to make more bombs.
 If the six-party regional talks involving the two Koreas, the United States, Japan, Russia and China fall apart, the United States may resort to asking the United Nations Security Council to impose sanctions on North Korea. The Council must be able and ready to engage effectively in both preventive diplomacy and enforcement measures, Dr. El Baradei said at the Pugwash Conference on Science and World Affairs. 
 Without directly mentioning North Korea, he added, ''The Security Council should also have, at the ready, smart sanctions that can target a government without adding misery to its citizens.''
 On Tuesday, Kim Dae Jung, a former South Korean president, used unsually blunt language to describe North Korea, a nation he painstaking cultivated while in office in the late 1990's. ''The nuclear development in North Korea is a serious violation of the agreement made between the two Koreas in 1992 not to have any nuclear weapons on the Korean Peninsula,'' said Mr. Kim, who won the Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts at inter-Korean conciliation.
 But Mr. Kim also emphasized the deep sense of insecurity felt by the North, saying that if Washington guaranteed the North's survival and contributed to its economic development, it would feel safe enough to give up its nuclear weapons.
 Mr. Kim said that when he met the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il, during a summit meeting in the North's capital, Pyongyang, in June 2000, the North was ''willing to give up all of its weapons of mass destruction programs if its relationship with the U.S. is normalized.'' That meeting was tarnished by subsequent disclosures that Seoul paid Pyongyang about $500 million to take part.
 Mr. Kim's successor, President Roh Moo Hyun, said Tuesday in India that he was optimistic that a peaceful solution would eventually be found. ''The North Korean nuclear issue and inter-Korean relations are often confronted by unexpected contingencies,'' he said in New Delhi, according to Press Trust of India news agency. ''However, because we are all working to bring about a peaceful resolution, before long we will come to a peaceful settlement.'' 
 On Saturday, the North's official news agency said South Korea has a nuclear weapons program and tied any future talks to a full investigation. Afterward, a North Korean delegation sent word that it would not attend the Pugwash conference. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (95%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); TERRORISM (73%); BOYCOTTS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (61%); FINES & PENALTIES (54%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Atomic Weapons; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (93%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%) International Atomic Energy Agency; United Nations

PERSON: MOHAMED ELBARADEI (89%); KIM JONG IL (79%) Mohamed El- Baradei; James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); NORTHERN ASIA (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%) North Korea; South Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



152 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Tory Leader Outlines Domestic Focus for Campaign Against Blair

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER

DATELINE: BOURNEMOUTH, England, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
Michael Howard, the leader of Britain's Conservative Party, urged Tories on Tuesday to focus on discontent with Prime Minister Tony Blair's domestic record and his failure to ''tell the truth'' in the months before the war in Iraq as the best strategy for contesting the national elections expected next spring.
 In his first address to the annual Conservative Party gathering, Mr. Howard also sought to stem defections to the upstart U.K. Independence Party, which has eroded Conservatives' base by taking a hard line against immigration and membership in the European Union. 
 The elections, Mr. Howard indicated, will serve as a referendum on Mr. Blair and his Labor Party's policies that would provide the Tories an opportunity to campaign on a platform of cutting taxes, fighting crime, controlling immigration and scaling back engagement with Europe. 
 Crucially, Mr. Howard rejected a frontal assault against Mr. Blair over Iraq, the source of broad disaffection in Britain. He mentioned the war in a few paragraphs near the end of his speech. 
 ''I believe it was right to go to war,'' he said. ''That's a controversial view.'' 
 ''Many people would prefer me to say something else,'' he added, contending that ''the world is a better place without Saddam Hussein.'' 
 However, in one jab at Mr. Blair, he said: ''Tony Blair did not tell the truth. He did not give a truthful account of the intelligence he received. He did not behave as a British prime minister should.''
 Mr. Howard also questioned whether Mr. Blair had the ''credibility'' to face the nation in a future crisis. ''What if this prime minister asked people to trust him again?'' he asked. ''Could the British people trust him a second time?'' 
 A collective no rumbled from the audience. 
 Mr. Howard said he wanted to conduct a ''war on crime'' in Britain as Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani had done in New York and to bring Britain home from the enterprise of building ''a country called Europe.'' 
 ''The European Union is spewing out too many regulations,'' Mr. Howard said. ''It's holding back our economy. We cannot go on like this. It is a recipe for certain economic decline.'' He also called for setting a ceiling on annual immigration, but he did not disclose what that would be.
 As strong Atlantic winds scoured the heather and cliffs of this resort, Tory fortunes appeared bleak from public opinion surveys conducted before the conference. Last week, in a special election in Hartlepool, a Conservative candidate came in fourth, outpolled not only by the Labor Party winner, but by candidates of the Liberal Democratic Party and the new U.K. Independence Party, which wants Britain to leave the European Union and erect strong barriers against immigration. 
 Mr. Howard's speech was an attempt to call Tories home, particularly from the U.K. Independence Party, where the former television personality Robert Kilroy-Silk has become the figurehead of its bid to undermine the Conservatives as the dominant opposition force. Mr. Kilroy-Silk is a controversial figure himself, having been forced off the BBC as a talk show host for incendiary comments about Arabs, whom he labeled as ''suicide bombers'' and ''women repressors.'' 
 Support for the Tories has not gained ground since Mr. Howard succeeded Iain Duncan Smith last winter. One poll indicated that only about 12 percent of Britons believed that Mr. Howard would become prime minister. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); IMMIGRATION (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); REFERENDUMS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%) Elections; Politics and Government; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (92%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Tony (Prime Min) Blair; Michael Howard; Patrick E Tyler; Saddam Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (99%); EUROPE (94%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Great Britain; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004



153 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: Census Portrait Of Gay Couples Who Are Black

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
Black gay couples are more likely to raise children, more likely to hold jobs in the public sector and more likely to struggle economically than their white gay counterparts, according to a new study released on Wednesday.
 Researchers at the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, the advocacy group that prepared the report based on data from the 2000 census, described the study as one of the first detailed demographic portraits of black same-sex couples, a group that they said was too often overlooked.
 The study was conducted in part to highlight the negative impact that federal and state efforts to ban gay marriage might have on the black couples and to counter critics who have sharply criticized some gay rights advocates for comparing the modern-day struggle for gay rights with the civil rights movement in the 1960's and 1970's. 
 Some conservatives working to rally black opposition to gay marriage have argued in recent months that such comparisons belittle the struggles of blacks against racial discrimination. The new report, titled ''Black Same Sex Households in the United States,'' argues that federal and state efforts to bar gay marriage would disproportionately harm black same-sex couples who are more likely to be raising children and working in the public sector than white gay couples. 
 ''They need the protection and peace of mind of family recognition more than white same-sex couples,'' Sean Cahill, director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force Policy Institute, said at a news conference on Wednesday. 
 Mr. Cahill said efforts to ban gay marriage and civil unions should not be viewed solely as gay rights issues. ''They also represent an issue of racial and economic justice,'' he said.
 The study, which found that 14 percent of all same-sex couples were black, or a total of about 85,000 couples, reported that black gay couples differed in some significant respects from their white counterparts. 
 The study found that black female couples were raising children at nearly twice the rate reported by white female couples, with 61 percent of black lesbian households raising children versus 38 percent of white lesbian couples.
 The study identified a similar trend among black male couples. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (97%); CENSUS (91%); MARRIAGE (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); COHABITATION (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); LGBT RIGHTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); CONSERVATISM (73%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Marriages; Blacks; Discrimination; Homosexuality; Research; States (US); Law and Legislation; Constitutional Amendments; Marriages

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GAY & LESBIAN TASK FORCE (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) National Gay and Lesbian Task Force; Census Bureau

PERSON: Rachel L Swarns

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



154 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: After 30 Years, Hispanic Leader Is Retiring From Advocacy Group

BYLINE: By THOMAS CRAMPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
Thirty years ago, when Raul Yzaguirre became the leader of the National Council of La Raza, the group was living off a $500,000 grant and focused on giving a voice to Hispanics in urban areas.
 Now it has $90 million in assets, an annual budget of $28 million, a staff of 125, and perhaps most important, is one of the nation's most prominent Hispanic-American advocacy organizations.
 ''Four months before taking the job, I had told a friend that I pitied the person taking over,'' he said in advance of his planned announcement on Thursday that he would retire as president and chief executive at year's end. ''The organization had a board in disarray and an inflated sense of self-importance.'' 
 He expanded its role from concentrating on building grass-root political groupings to also include financially supporting programs in education, housing and economic development. 
 ''Our main problem was that we did not have any institution or critical mass of talented and committed leaders at the local level,'' Mr. Yzaguirre said. ''There was also no sense among corporate or political decision makers that our community was important or worth talking to.''
 Wade Henderson, the executive director of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, of which Mr. Yzaguirre is an executive committee member, said that ''Raul turned his vision into a national institution that changed the perception of Hispanic people in America.''
 ''His departure, a bittersweet moment, ends the foundational phase of the Hispanic role in national politics,'' Mr. Henderson added.
 Mr. Yzaguirre will be succeeded by Janet Murguia, the organization's executive director, who was a deputy manager of the Gore-Lieberman campaign in 2000.
 The National Council of La Raza's name comes from ''the race,'' though Mr. Yzaguirre said it was more intended to imply the less charged term ''the people.'' 
 Standing in front of a wall displaying photographs of him with Jimmy Carter and every president since, Mr. Yzaguirre said that while Democrats have long been the most strongly Hispanic party, Republicans now also recognize the power of Hispanics. 
 (The only nonpresident pictured on the wall is Newt Gingrich, the former Republican speaker of the House: ''I put his picture there because it was so unexpected to find Newt on the same side as us.'')
 While increasing Hispanic political heft remains important, the most crucial battles of today center on public perception, economic issues and education, Mr. Yzaguirre said.
 ''Everywhere you look in the media, we are portrayed opposite to reality,'' Mr. Yzaguirre said. ''You would think we are lazy, unpatriotic and have no family values, when the exact opposite is true to the facts.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Raul Yzaguirre at the 2004 Democratic National Convention. (Photo by Matt Campbell/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (74%); POLITICS (74%); FAMILY (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%) Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Appointments and Executive Changes; Hispanic-Americans

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COUNCIL OF LA RAZA (91%) National Council of La Raza

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (54%); JIMMY CARTER (54%); JOE LIEBERMAN (54%) Raul Yzaguirre; Janet Murguia

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



155 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: A Texas experiment that shifts money from rich to poor school districts is turning into a major policy disaster.

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel. 
Virginia Postrel (www.dynamist.com) is the author of ''The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness,'' just published in paperback by Perennial.

DATELINE: DALLAS 

 BODY:
PUBLIC policy experiments rarely produce complete successes or total failures. They usually leave room for people with different goals or values to keep arguing.
 Occasionally, however, there's a policy disaster so catastrophic that everyone agrees that something has to change. California's convoluted attempt to deregulate electricity was one example. Texas's decade-long experiment in school finance equalization -- universally referred to as Robin Hood -- is another. 
 ''In less than a decade, the system is approaching collapse; it has exhausted its own capacity,'' write Caroline M. Hoxby and Ilyana Kuziemko, economists at Harvard, in a new working paper for the National Bureau of Economic Research. ''We show that the collapse was predictable.'' (The paper, ''Robin Hood and His Not-So-Merry Plan: Capitalization and the Self-Destruction of Texas' School Finance Equalization Plan,'' is available at http://post.economics.harvard.edu/faculty/hoxby/papers.html.)
 As school budgets fall and property taxes rise, Texans know Robin Hood is in trouble. But most do not really understand why.
 Some blame the very idea of equalization, others say schools are too dependent on property taxes, and still others argue that taxes are too low. Some declare that schooling has simply become more demanding and expensive.
 ''Although it is a financially efficient model, the current system, as it is now designed, cannot live up to the standards of our 'outcomes'-based accountability system,'' Lloyd Jenkins, a school district trustee in the Dallas suburb of Plano, recently wrote in The Dallas Morning News.
 In fact, argue the economists, the Robin Hood system is anything but financially efficient. Robin Hood does not just move money from rich school districts to poor school districts. It does so in a way that destroys far more wealth than it transfers, and that erodes the tax base on which school funding depends.
 ''Our estimates suggest that Robin Hood caused Texas to lose a net of $27,000 per pupil in property wealth,'' write Professor Hoxby and Ms. Kuziemko, a doctoral student. That's real money.
 To understand why Robin Hood is so destructive, consider the market price of a given house. The home's value depends not just on how big the house is or whether it has walk-in closets and granite countertops. ''It also depends on how many property taxes the homeowner is going to pay and what he or she is going to get in return for those property taxes,'' Professor Hoxby explains.
 Property taxes depress the value of a house. The amenities those taxes buy, including good schools, increase the value. The final price reflects the net value of the taxes the homeowner pays.
 Robin Hood essentially raises taxes while reducing benefits, creating a downward spiral in home values and property tax receipts. For each district, the state divides the total assessed value of property in the district by the number of pupils. (Districts get higher per-pupil weightings for such factors as students with learning disabilities or limited English proficiency.)
 The state then compares this number with a confiscation threshold. The district keeps the taxes on the property base below the threshold. But every single penny collected on the property value above the threshold goes to the state.
 ''When you have these districts that are being told, 'Your property value above a certain amount will never go to help your students -- it will go to the state' -- the property value of those districts will fall,'' Ms. Kuziemko explains. Homebuyers no longer get as much education for their taxes, so buyers will not pay as much for houses.
 During the 1990's, ''a period of unusually rapid income growth for the wealthy,'' the economists note, the property value per pupil actually fell in the state's wealthiest 5 percent of school districts, even without accounting for inflation.
 That drop was bad news for everyone. Robin Hood assumed that house prices would stay pretty much the same, so that property-rich districts would continue to provide ample tax dollars to the rest of the state. Instead, every year the tax base became smaller in the rich districts.
 To meet its commitments to poor districts, the state effectively lowered the real value of the confiscation threshold. Corrected for inflation, the threshold was $340,000 per weighted pupil in 1994, when the system was established. By 2002, it had fallen to $305,000. 
 But lowering the threshold further depresses home values. A death spiral sets in.
 As homebuyers switch from the once-rich districts into moderately priced districts, property values hit the threshold in those districts, setting yet another spiral in motion.
 And while the state is pushing down the confiscation threshold, districts try to keep up by raising their property tax rates, pushing down home values even more. 
 The economists are quick to note that their critique is not a condemnation of redistributing school funds. Rather, it's a brief for bringing well-established principles of efficient taxation to bear on school finance. Transfers, Professor Hoxby argues, should be funded through a statewide tax, while local taxes pay for local amenities.
 But even local taxes could be more efficient. Instead of confiscating 100 percent of everything above a certain property-value threshold, says Ms. Kuziemko, the state could take a much smaller percentage of the whole tax base.
 ''One of the principles of public finance is that having a high tax rate on a small base is very inefficient,'' she says, ''whereas having a lower tax rate on a larger base is less distortionary.''
 Just as ideological foes of electricity deregulation exploited the California experience to attack deregulation in general, some people opposed to redistribution on principle now point to Robin Hood. But just as California's complex system was not true deregulation, so Robin Hood does not represent the only way to transfer funds to poor school districts. 
 What was the fundamental reason for the failure, according to Professor Hoxby and Ms. Kuziemko? ''Lawyers, not economists, designed the system.''



GRAPHIC: Photo: Anne Fuentes reads to her second graders in Horizon City, near El Paso. Texas' program in equalization -- referred to as Robin Hood -- is facing mounting problems. (Photo by Rudy Gutierrez/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); DEREGULATION (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); ENERGY REGULATION (57%) Education and Schools; Finances; Property Taxes; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: Virginia Postrel

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (72%); EL PASO, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) Texas

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



156 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Saudi Arabia's Case for Being Left Alone

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
The answer implicit in ''The Saudi Question,'' Wide Angle's documentary on PBS tonight, is: don't ask. 
 Saudi Arabia is a kingdom caught between Iraq and a hard place, and too much outside meddling will only make things worse. At least that is what the royal family spokesmen and reform-minded members of the Saudi elite suggest. 
 Saudi leaders have become deft at letting off a little public relations steam when pressure from the United States (or, increasingly, from Islamic fundamentalist groups) mounts too high. In the West, Adel al-Jubeir, a polished, doe-eyed young Saudi official, does the round of morning talk shows, while in Saudi Arabia, Western reporters are invited to view the country and its people, but only up to a point. A PBS crew was granted carefully contained access to royal family members, reform-minded lawyers and doctors (including one of the country's few female doctors), and a United States-trained ophthalmologist, most of whom signaled that change is needed, but not too soon. 
 It is a reversal of Thomas Macaulay's famous exhortation to reform in order to preserve; Saudi leaders say they need to preserve in order to reform. 
 PBS is too conscientious to withhold from its viewers that its reporters' access was limited, and that they were not allowed to film or interview any members of the country's vast army of the unemployed, let alone show any of the less savory aspects of Islamic law, like thieves getting their hands cut off. 
 The program even tries to balance Saudi spin with a blunt rebuttal by Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware. Mr. Biden likens Saudi Arabia to a not very pleasant but useful gas station at the corner. ''And now you find out in the back room they're cutting heroin and cocaine, and they're distributing it to all the drug dealers in the region,'' he says, referring to reports that branches of the Saudi government have financed Islamic radical extremists. ''Obviously that gas station now becomes your problem. Saudi Arabia is becoming our problem as well as our ally.''
 ''The Saudi Question'' is not a muckraking expose. But it is a useful primer for viewers who have not read newspapers avidly over the last few years. Terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia against foreigners and even ordinary Saudi citizens have shaken the kingdom's complacency. The film does a good job of explaining the royal family's conundrum: Western and Saudi reformers want democratic change to stave off idle, restless, potential terrorist recruits; Wahabi clerics combat Western modernization by threatening a fundamentalist insurrection. 
 Several somber, well-spoken princes are interviewed. (There are 4,000 of them in the royal family, which may help explain why a country so rich in oil has economic problems.) 
 Osama bin Laden's brother-in-law Muhammad Jamal Khalifa, who was Mr. bin Laden's roommate during the Afghan war against Soviet occupation, is also interviewed. Mr. Khalifa describes Mr. bin Laden as a ''very, very nice person.'' They became so close that, as Mr. Khalifa puts it: ''Osama, he decided to let me marry his sister. So of course it's something, it cannot be refused.'' (The film does not mention that Mr. Khalifa was under investigation for terrorist links in the mid-1990's by law enforcement agencies in the in the United States. He has denied all such charges.) 
 The film does not pursue links between the Bush dynasty and the Saudi royal family, but it is clear that Mr. bin Laden's followers push that perceived complicity as a rallying cry to foment rebellion within the kingdom. ''The Saudi Question'' shows suicide bombers' videotapes, which illustrate their martial message with news clips of President George W. Bush in cozy chats with Saudi leaders. 
 Few of the people interviewed advocate change any time soon. Even many women say that they resent Western pressure. ''What is happening today is we're being bombarded by reform,'' a well-spoken, educated young woman explains a bit frostily. ''Of course the world seems to want reform in a year or two. I can't reform my son in a year. And that's one individual. What about reforming a whole country? Don't bombard us anymore with what to do.''
 Unfortunately, the West cannot afford to leave the kingdom alone. When an interviewer, Carol Marin, asks if oil interests were guiding United States policy in Saudi Arabia, Senator Biden replies: ''bingo bango.''

Wide Angle: The Saudi Question
PBS, tonight at 9; check local listings.

Stephen Segaller, executive producer; Pamela Hogan, series producer; Andy Halper, senior producer. Produced by Thirteen/WNET New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TELEVISION (91%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); FUNDAMENTALISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (78%); TERRORISM (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); NEWS REPORTING (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LAWYERS (69%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (62%); COCAINE (62%); HEROIN (62%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (54%) Television; Reviews

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (57%) Alessandra Stanley

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



157 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Cigarette Tax Bond Offering To Go Toward State Budget

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
After a bitter political fight and a court battle that threatened to scuttle the state's budget, New Jersey sold $1.5 billion in cigarette tax bonds on Wednesday, agreeing to pay investors its highest interest rate in two years.
 The bonds were authorized as part of a deal to help pay for the state's $28 billion budget, which was passed in June, and will be secured by increases in the state's tax on cigarettes. But many investment analysts view that revenue stream as risky, because tobacco sales are declining and consumers increasingly are buying their cigarettes in nearby states with lower tax. As a result, New Jersey was forced to offer higher interest rates that ultimately will cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars in additional interest payments. 
 Republicans fought the plan, saying it violated the state constitution's ban on borrowing to pay for operating expenses. The State Supreme Court agreed to let the state issue the bonds this year, but said that it would forbid such arrangements in the future because bond proceeds are considered debt rather than revenue.
 Gov. James E. McGreevey and his Democratic allies in the Legislature faced little public outcry for imposing a 35 cent increase on the tax on cigarettes, raising the total levy to $2.40 per pack, the second highest in the nation behind Rhode Island. But Republicans argued that the bonding plan is an exceedingly expensive way to borrow.
 Before the bonds went on sale on Wednesday, some analysts predicted that the state might have to offer rates as high as 6 or 7 percent, compared with the 4.5 percent New Jersey usually offers on its general obligation bonds. But the state treasurer, John E. McCormac, said that the bonds sold quickly and that the state paid an average of only 5.44 percent on the 30-year notes.
 ''Despite the politically motivated attacks over the past several weeks, this deal was incredibly well received on Wall Street and had $5 in orders for every dollar that was available,'' Mr. McCormac said. ''That's unheard of in a transaction like this.''
 Republicans said, however, that the 5.44 percent rate meant that New Jersey taxpayers would owe more than $10 million in additional interest costs each year, or hundreds of millions of dollars over the life of the 30-year bond.
 ''The practice of borrowing to balance the state budget is unconstitutional and should not occur,'' said Senator Leonard Lance, the Senate minority leader. ''And the high cost of these bonds only compounds the injury to the state taxpayers.''
 Moody's Investors Services rated the bonds Baa2, just two levels above junk bond status. Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings rated them slightly higher, at BBB.
 Governor McGreevey, who was elected after lambasting Republicans for their borrowing during the Whitman administration, was harshly criticized for the bond plan, which will plug a hole in a budget that included a double-digit increase in spending.
 But Mr. McCormac defended the borrowing plan, saying that once the bonds are sold, the risk of any shortfalls in the state's cigarette revenues will be assumed by investors, and not the taxpayers.
 Others say that the steep price New Jersey will be paying investors to buy the bonds makes the borrowing a bad deal for state taxpayers and unfairly shifts the debt onto future generations.
 ''Is it fair to expect our children and grandchildren to pay for the difficult choices we're unwilling to make now?'' said Mark D. Robbins, a public policy professor at the University of Connecticut. ''It's not reasonable to expect that in the future it will be any easier to make those decisions about what spending to cut or what taxes to raise. But borrowing like this forces the next generation to pay for today's irresponsibility.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (92%); BUDGETS (92%); BOND ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BONDS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEBT NOTES (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (60%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (60%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (60%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (60%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: LEONARD LANCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



158 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Ambiguity, Not a Lie, PeopleSoft's Ex-Chief Says

BYLINE: By RITA K. FARRELL

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Del., Oct. 6 

 BODY:
The ousted chief executive of PeopleSoft, Craig A. Conway, told a judge here on Wednesday that he did not lie to analysts in 2003 but had simply not been clear when he suggested at a meeting that all the pending software orders had been completed.
 In fact, Mr. Conway testified, he should have said that most of the orders had been completed.
 His comments came in response to questions from a lawyer for the software maker Oracle, Michael Carroll, who focused on the tactics PeopleSoft had used to fight Oracle's unsolicited takeover offer. 
 Mr. Carroll tried to show that Mr. Conway's statement about completed orders was a deliberate lie intended to persuade analysts that the Oracle bid had ceased to be an obstacle to customers planning to order PeopleSoft software, and that PeopleSoft's rejection of Oracle's bid was a matter of entrenching its board and management rather than increasing shareholder value.
 Mr. Carroll asserted during his examination that making a false statement to analysts ''amounted to securities fraud.''
 Mr. Conway responded that his comments to analysts were accurate accept for the failure to say ''most,'' and that the error was corrected in a regulatory filing the next day.
 He testified on the third day of a trial in a Delaware state court, where Oracle is trying to force PeopleSoft to remove anti-takeover measures -- a ''poison pill'' provision that would make purchasing a majority of the company's stock prohibitively expensive and a customer rebate program that could leave Oracle with a $2 billion bill. Oracle's $7.7 billion offer is conditioned on removing the defensive measures and receiving antitrust approval from the European Union.
 In his pretrial deposition, Mr. Conway acknowledged that he had been wrong when he told analysts in September 2003 that ''the last remaining customers whose business decisions were being delayed have actually completed their sales and completed their orders.'' 
 He said that the perception of PeopleSoft, which makes software that links back-office programs, as a troubled company had worried him and that even though PeopleSoft was strong, the analysts' questions had focused on Oracle. He said in the deposition that he felt compelled to promote ''the imagery that PeopleSoft was strong.''
 Mr. Conway told the judge, Leo E. Strine Jr., that because he thought Oracle's offer was ''destructive,'' he had to say that ''there is no way in God's good earth that I am going to let PeopleSoft be sold to Oracle.'' He had also described Oracle as a company of ''sociopaths'' and promised to ''vilify'' Oracle's chief executive, Lawrence J. Ellison.
 At issue in Oracle's lawsuit is whether PeopleSoft's board acted reasonably in response to the perceived threat that an Oracle takeover represented. 
 If activated, the poison pill adopted by the company in 1995 provides for the issuing of new shares at a discounted price to current stockholders, forcing an acquirer to buy more shares than it had planned.
 PeopleSoft's so-called Customer Assurance Plan, adopted days after the Oracle tender offer, would compel an acquirer to pay new customers up to five times the cost of their software license if it failed to support the PeopleSoft software.
 In a pretrial conference, Judge Strine, a vice chancellor of the Delaware Chancery Court, expressed concern about the cost of the Customer Assurance Plan, saying, ''I think the question becomes whether the C.A.P. presents issues that need to be addressed -- that you can't continue to have something ticking like the debt clock in Times Square because it's a pretty big number,'' an allusion to the estimated $2 billion cost now associated with the customer plan. 
 Mr. Conway, who said that he was surprised when the PeopleSoft board fired him last week and that he ''didn't see it coming,'' was soft-spoken and seemingly unruffled during five hours on the witness stand.
 He was followed by an Oracle director, Joseph A. Grundfest, an economist and lawyer who has specialized in fraud. Mr. Grundfest testified that the decision to acquire PeopleSoft was based on the concept that in the software business, ''bigger is better'' because of economies of scale. 
 Mr. Grundfest, who led a three-member acquisition committee, said the Oracle board decided against a friendly approach and in favor of quick action because it was likely that PeopleSoft would have rejected an acquisition in which it was not the survivor. 
 The trial resumes on Thursday with expert witnesses scheduled to testify. An Oracle spokesman would not confirm whether Mr. Ellison would be called as a witness. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); DEPOSITIONS (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LITIGATION (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (75%); LAWYERS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (67%); SALES REBATES (64%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%) Computers and the Internet; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Securities and Commodities Violations

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Peoplesoft Inc; Oracle Corp

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (94%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (94%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (58%) Rita K Farrell

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (69%) DELAWARE, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



159 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Shares Are Broadly Higher Despite Further Oil Price Rise

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks advanced widely yesterday as optimism about third-quarter earnings overshadowed surging oil prices. Alcoa and General Electric, which report results this week, rallied to lift the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to a three-and-a-half-month high.
 The S.&P. 500 climbed 7.57 points, or 0.67 percent, to 1,142.05, a level not seen since June 23. The index has gained 7.4 percent since reaching its low for the year on Aug. 12, even as crude oil futures prices rose sharply. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average added 62.24 points, or 0.61 percent, to 10,239.92. The Nasdaq composite index increased 15.53 points, or 0.79 percent, to 1,971.03, its seventh consecutive daily gain. And the Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization stocks advanced 5.32 points, or 0.91 percent, to 592.66.
 More than two stocks rose for every one that fell on the New York Stock Exchange. Preliminary volume eased to 1.42 billion shares from 1.46 billion on Tuesday. 
 Alcoa, the world's largest aluminum producer, rose 60 cents, to close at $34.16. The company will announce third-quarter earnings today. Earlier, the Commerce Department ruled that Hulett Aluminum of South Africa had dumped certain types of aluminum in the United States. In London, aluminum rose to its highest level in nine years.
 An index of producers of raw materials including gold and aluminum added 1.6 percent yesterday, the second-largest gain among 24 groups in the S.&P. 500. Gold futures settled at $418.60, up 60 cents and near a five-month high.
 Profit for S.&P. 500 companies is estimated to have grown 13.6 percent in the third quarter, based on the average analyst forecast compiled by Thomson Financial. 
 General Electric, the world's biggest company by market value, added 33 cents, to $34.38. G.E. is to report its third-quarter results tomorrow. 
 In Nasdaq trading, Netegrity soared $2.79, or 36 percent, to $10.54, on volume of more than 19 million shares after Computer Associates International agreed to buy the company, a maker of security software, for $430 million in cash.
 Next-month oil futures rose in New York to $52.02 a barrel after the Energy Department said crude oil inventories increased less than expected last week.
 Exxon Mobil, the largest publicly traded oil company, gained 71 cents, closing at $50.03, a 52-week high. Transocean, a big offshore drilling contractor, advanced 71 cents, to $36.50. The S.&P. 500 energy index has risen 28 percent this year. The broader index is up 2.7 percent, with Exxon Mobil and ChevronTexaco accounting for about a third of the gain.
 Merck, whose shares were pummeled last week after it withdrew its drug Vioxx from the market, fell $1.76, to $31.67, in trading of more than 48 million shares. After hours, it regained 10 cents. 
 Big Lots, the largest American retailer of discounted and overstocked goods, fell 59 cents, to $12.15. It said it would report a wider fiscal third-quarter loss than expected.
 The auto parts maker Delphi lost 46 cents, closing at $8.85. Delphi had a third-quarter loss of $113 million to $120 million, far wider than its previous forecast of a loss of $10 million to $40 million. It cited rising prices for steel and plastics and cutbacks in United States vehicle production.
 Ted O'Connor, principal at Cooke & Bieler, which manages $4.5 billion, commented: ''Companies that have big energy and raw materials needs are going to be struggling because they're unable to pass increased costs to customers. Customers are paying more for gasoline and less'' for goods.
 Sirius Satellite Radio surged 52 cents to $3.87, on volume of more than 341 million shares. The radio talk show host Howard Stern will leave Infinity Broadcasting and join Sirius beginning in 2006. Sirius's larger rival, XM, shed 48 cents, finishing at $29.
 On the bond market, Treasury securities fell on speculation that the September employment report tomorrow will show strong job gains. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 12/32, to 100 7/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.22 percent from 4.17 percent on Tuesday. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of five-year notes: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.476
High Yield: 3.490
Low Yield: 3.438
Median Yield: 3.458
Total applied for: $34,810,649
Accepted: $15,000,080
Noncompetitive: $101,604
Interest set at: 3 3/8

The five-year notes mature Octobetr 15, 2009.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); FUTURES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (78%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BONDS (77%); GOLD MARKETS (76%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (73%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (71%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Interest Rates; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index

COMPANY: CA INC (81%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (64%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); ALCOA INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%); CHEVRON CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (81%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (51%); CVX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (81%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



160 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Powell Says More Caribbean Relief Aid Is Sought From Congress

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: POINT SALINES, Grenada, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, stopping to inspect hurricane damage in the island nation of Grenada, said Wednesday that the Bush administration had asked Congress for an additional $50 million to provide relief to Caribbean countries, bringing the total pledged for the region to $113.3 million.
 Mr. Powell met with Prime Minister Keith C. Mitchell of Grenada at the airport on the southern tip of the island and then went for a quick tour of relief efforts. Before landing, his plane circled the island to see a vast expanse of damaged homes and ruined farmlands and forests. 
 ''Clearly this country has been hit with a devastating tragedy that has affected its infrastructure, its means of income and its people psychologically,'' Mr. Powell told reporters at the airport. ''But Grenadians are a resilient people, and there is no doubt in my mind that they will spring back.''
 Mr. Mitchell called the secretary's visit a ''special occasion'' because of his ''personal touch and presence.'' He praised Mr. Powell for listening intently and added: ''You lifted me. I've been lifted, and I'm pretty sure you have lifted every single Grenadian.''
 Mr. Powell, who stopped here on his way back to the United States from a visit to Brazil, had said earlier that he had considered stopping in Haiti, also damaged by Hurricane Ivan, but that Haiti was still struggling from the damage and would be overburdened by such a visit.
 Haiti is also experiencing riots that State Department officials said had made a visit difficult.
 Mr. Powell took note of the unusual relationship between the United States and Grenada, a lush mountainous island whose main industries are tourism and the production of nutmeg, both of which have been set back, according to relief officials. 
 He said he had last visited the island with President Ronald Reagan in 1984, a year after the United States sent in forces to restore order after a power struggle resulted in the killing of the country's prime minister. Caribbean nations at the time appealed for American intervention, which quickly became notable for reflecting the Reagan administration's muscular opposition to Communist governments in the region. 
 Aid for Grenada and for the Caribbean has come in phases, starting with an emergency shipment of $13.3 million in food, medicine, construction materials and other supplies to the region, about a quarter of it for Grenada itself. 
 President Bush later attached a $50 million request for the Caribbean to a larger package of help for Florida, Louisiana and other states in the South hit by the rolling series of storms this summer and fall. Still another $50 million was requested by the White House on Tuesday, Mr. Powell said. 
 ''Grenada has been hit the hardest, so you can expect your assistance will be significant,'' the secretary told Mr. Mitchell, adding that help was needed not simply to repair homes and schools but also to restore the economic infrastructure of the country. 
 He said experts had begun discussing ''creative suggestions'' for how Grenada could diversify its agriculture output after the destruction of its nutmeg groves, which could take five to seven years to restore. 
 Officials said later that it might be so difficult to rebuild its nutmeg output that Grenada should consider trying to grow other products, like flowers. About 30 percent of the island's economy is based on tourism, including cruise ships. Nutmeg accounts for 10 percent of Grenada's economic output, but it is a labor-intensive industry, employing 8,000 families. 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 12, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about Secretary of State Colin L. Powell's visit to Grenada, where he announced an increase in American aid to Caribbean countries damaged by hurricanes, misstated the date of his previous visit, accompanying President Ronald Reagan. His office says it was 1986; at the time, Mr. Powell was a military adviser to Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROPICAL STORMS (91%); HURRICANES (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); WEATHER (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); RIOTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); SPICE FARMING (52%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Foreign Aid ; Ivan (Storm)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Steven R Weisman; Colin L (Sec) Powell; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (97%); GRENADA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (93%) Grenada ; Caribbean Area

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



161 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15

Report Affirms That Iraq Had No Illicit Weapons
A report presented to Congress by the top American inspector said Iraq had destroyed its illicit weapons stockpiles within months after the Persian Gulf war of 1991, and its capacity to produce such weapons had eroded even further by the time of the American invasion in 2003. A1

Afghan Candidate Is a Target
A bomb exploded next to the convoy of President Hamid Karzai's running mate, Ahmed Zia Massoud, left, killing at least one person and injuring as many as seven. The vice-presidential candidate was not hurt. A3

Comments on Gaza Withdrawal
Israel's proposed withdrawal from the Gaza Strip is intended to put the issue of Palestinian statehood on indefinite hold, a close aide to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said. Mr. Sharon's office quickly put out a statement saying he was committed to the Middle East peace plan. A10

Attempting Control in Haiti
Haitian police and United Nations soldiers arrested people suspected of being militants and searched for weapons. The new actions could not quell the roiling capital. A5

EDUCATION

Math Test Scores Improve
Students in New York State made solid gains in math for the third year in a row, suggesting that new programs devoted to the subject have begun to have an impact. B1

NATIONAL A17-33

Bush Says Kerry's Policies Could Weaken the Nation
President Bush delivered a critique of Senator John Kerry's stands on national security and the economy and signaled that he plans to give no ground on either his decision to go to war or questions about mistakes in the occupation of Iraq. A1

Vice President Dick Cheney and Senator John Edwards traded shots in Florida over the Iraq war, who is fitter to lead the nation and the importance of when they first met. A31

DeLay Admonished Again
The House ethics committee admonished Representative Tom DeLay, the majority leader, for the second time in a week, this time for fund-raising activities that created the appearance of impropriety. A24

Study on Black Gay Couples
Black gay couples are more likely to raise children, to hold public sector jobs and to struggle economically than their white gay counterparts, according to a study. A24

SCIENCE/HEALTH

New Rules for Flu Vaccination
A complicated, uncertain triage of flu prevention, including who will get a shot and who will not, has begun as the nation suddenly faces a shortage of flu vaccine. A1

British regulators' suspension of Chiron's license for producing flu vaccine has cost the company not only three-quarters of the profit it expected this year, but some of its credibility with investors and customers. C1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-9

Bloomberg's Garbage Plan Favors Barges Over Trucks
The Bloomberg administration has drawn up a 20-year plan to deal with New York City's residential waste by shipping most of it by barge, officials briefed on the plan said. A1

Protest Charges Dropped
The Manhattan district attorney's office said it had dropped charges against 227 protesters arrested in one of the most disputed demonstrations during the Republican National Convention. B1

Art Show Canceled After Party
The Port Authority shut down an art exhibition in Kennedy Airport after a raucous opening-night party that left broken glass on the floor and graffiti on the walls, the agency said. B1

HOUSE & HOME F1-12

CIRCUITS G1-10

ARTS E1-12

OBITUARIES B10

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-8

Yankees Even Series
The Yankees edged the Minnesota Twins, 7-6, in 12 innings, tying their American League division series at one game apiece. D1

Astros Win Game 1 vs. Braves
Houston beat Atlanta, 9-3, to start a National League division series. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-15

Corporate Tax Bill Approved
House and Senate negotiators approved a sprawling corporate tax bill that would shower corporations and farmers in politically sensitive states with about $145 billion worth of new tax cuts. C1

Oil Prices Continue to Climb
Oil for November delivery extended its advance, ending the day with a gain of 93 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $52.02 a barrel. The rise was spurred by an increase in crude oil inventories that was less than expected. C1

Subsidy Battle Reignited
Washington and Brussels took complaints to the World Trade Organization after bilateral talks over commercial aircraft subsidies failed. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A34-35

Editorials: The verdict is in; the poll tax, updated; letting off steam.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Bridge E9
TV Listings E11
Crossword E8
Weather B11
Public Lives B2


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL WEAPONS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); INFLUENZA (84%); DESERT STORM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); ETHICS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); FUNDRAISING (71%); VACCINES (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (64%); DRUG SHORTAGES (60%); ANTIVIRALS (60%); PEACE PROCESS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); HAMAD KARZAI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); HAITI (92%); GULF STATES (90%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



162 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE ISSUE OF WAR: INSPECTOR'S JUDGMENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: U.S. REPORT FINDS IRAQIS ELIMINATED ILLICIT ARMS IN 90's

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
Iraq had destroyed its illicit weapons stockpiles within months after the Persian Gulf war of 1991, and its ability to produce such weapons had significantly eroded by the time of the American invasion in 2003, the top American inspector for Iraq said in a report made public Wednesday.
 The report by the inspector, Charles A. Duelfer, intended to offer a near-final judgment about Iraq and its weapons, said Iraq, while under pressure from the United Nations, had ''essentially destroyed'' its illicit weapons ability by the end of 1991, with its last secret factory, a biological weapons plant, eliminated in 1996.
 Mr. Duelfer said that even during those years, Saddam Hussein had aimed at ''preserving the capability to reconstitute his weapons of mass destruction when sanctions were lifted.'' But he said he had found no evidence of any concerted effort by Iraq to restart the programs. 
 The findings uphold Iraq's prewar insistence that it did not possess chemical or biological weapons. They also show the enormous distance between the Bush administration's own prewar assertions, based on reports by American intelligence agencies, and what a 15-month inquiry by American investigators found since the war.
 Mr. Duelfer said he had concluded that between 1991 and 2003, Mr. Hussein had in effect sacrificed Iraq's illicit weapons to the larger goal of winning an end to United Nations sanctions. But he also argued that Mr. Hussein had used the period to try to exploit avenues opened by the sanctions, especially the oil-for-food program, to lay the groundwork for a plan to resume weapons production if sanctions were lifted. 
 In addition, the report concluded that Mr. Hussein had deliberately sought to maintain ambiguity about whether it had illicit weapons, mainly as a deterrent to Iran, its rival. [Page A28.]
 The American inspector presented his conclusions to Congress on Wednesday, including highly charged public testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee. 
 With Iraq figuring prominently in the last dash toward the presidential election, Democrats argued that the report had undermined the administration's case for war, while the White House and its Republican allies called attention to elements in the report that highlighted potential dangers posed by Mr. Hussein's government.
 ''There is no doubt that Saddam was a threat to our nation, and there is no doubt that he had W.M.D. capability, and the Duelfer report is very clear on these points,'' said James Wilkinson, a White House deputy national security adviser, using the abbreviation for weapons of mass destruction. 
 The three-volume report, totaling 918 pages, represented the most authoritative attempt so far to unravel the mystery posed by Iraq between 1991 and 2003, beginning with the point after the Persian Gulf war when Iraq still possessed chemical and biological weapons and an active nuclear-weapons program. The conclusions suggest that the main war aim cited by the White House in March 2003 -- to disarm Iraq, which American intelligence agencies said possessed chemical and biological weapons and was reconstituting its nuclear program -- was based on an outdated view of Iraq's weapons stockpiles. 
 At the time of the American invasion, Mr. Duelfer said in the report, Iraq did not possess chemical and biological weapons, was not seeking to reconstitute its nuclear program, and was not making any active effort to gain those abilities. Even if Iraq had sought to restart its weapons programs in 2003, the report said, it could not have produced militarily significant quantities of chemical weapons for at least a year, and it would have required years to produce a nuclear weapon.
 ''Saddam Hussein ended the nuclear program in 1991 following the gulf war,'' Mr. Duelfer said in the report. It said American inspectors in Iraq had ''found no evidence to suggest concerted efforts to restart the program.''
 After a closed briefing by Mr. Duelfer to the Senate Intelligence Committee, Senator John D. Rockefeller IV of West Virginia, the top Democrat on the committee, described the report as ''a devastating account.''
 ''The administration would like the American public to believe that Saddam's intention to build a weapons program, regardless of actual weapons or the capability to produce weapons, justified invading Iraq,'' Mr. Rockefeller said in a statement. ''In fact, we invaded a country, thousands of people have died, and Iraq never posed a grave or growing danger.''
 In accounting for what happened beginning in 1991, Mr. Duelfer said Mr. Hussein made a fundamental decision after the Persian Gulf war to get rid of Iraq's illicit weapons and accept the destruction of its weapons-producing facilities as part of an effort to win an end to sanctions imposed by the United Nations to achieve those ends. 
 Although Mr. Duelfer concluded that Mr. Hussein had intended to restart his programs, the report acknowledged that that conclusion was based more on inference than solid evidence. ''The regime had no formal written strategy or plan for the revival of W.M.D. after sanctions,'' it said. 
 The report notes that its conclusions were drawn in part from interrogation of Mr. Hussein in his prison cell outside Baghdad. Mr. Duelfer, a special adviser to the director of central intelligence, said he had concluded that Mr. Hussein had deliberately sought to maintain ambiguity about whether Iraq possessed illicit weapons, primarily as a deterrent to Iran, Iraq's adversary in an eight-year war in the 1980's. 
 It was not until a series of meetings in late 2002, just months before the American invasion, that Mr. Hussein finally acknowledged to senior officers and officials of his government that Iraq did not possess illicit weapons, Mr. Duelfer said. 
 The report said American investigators had found clandestine laboratories in the Baghdad area used by the Iraqi Intelligence Service between 1991 and 2003 to conduct research and to test various chemicals and poisons, including ricin. As previously reported, it said those efforts appeared to be intended primarily for use in assassinations, not to inflict mass casualties. 
 Mr. Duelfer said in his report that Mr. Hussein never acknowledged in the course of the interrogations what had become of Iraq's illicit weapons. He said that American investigators had appealed to the former Iraqi leader to be candid in order to shape his legacy, but that Mr. Hussein had not been forthcoming.
 The report said interviews with other former top Iraqi leaders had made clear that Mr. Hussein had left many of his top deputies uncertain until the eve of war about whether Iraq possessed illicit weapons. It said he seemed to be most concerned about a possible new attack by Iran, whose incursions into Iraq during the Iran-Iraq war of 1980-88 were fended off by Baghdad partly with the use of chemical munitions.
 Mr. Duelfer said Iraq had tried to maintain the knowledge base necessary to restart an illicit weapons program. He said Iraq had essentially put its biological program ''on the shelf,'' after its last production facility, Al Hakam, was destroyed by United Nations inspectors in 1996, and could have begun to produce biological questions in as little as a month if it had restarted its weapons program in 2003. 
 But the report said there were ''no indications'' that Iraq was pursuing such a course, and it reported ''a complete absence of discussion or even interest in biological weapons'' at the level of Mr. Hussein and his aides after the mid-1990's.
 The report will almost certainly be the last complete assessment by the team led by Mr. Duelfer, which is known as the Iraq Survey Group. But he said he and the 1,200-member team would continue their work in Iraq for the time being. He said the team had not completely ruled out the possibility that some Iraqi weapons might have been smuggled out of Iraq to a neighboring country, like Syria.
 The report did revise several earlier judgments, including a report by the Central Intelligence Agency in May 2003 that said mysterious trailers found in Iraq after the American invasion in 2003 were intended for use in a biological warfare program. Mr. Duelfer said that the trailers could not have been used for that purpose, and that their manufacturers ''almost certainly designed and built the equipment exclusively for the generation of hydrogen,'' upholding claims by Iraqi officials that linked the trailers to weather balloons used for artillery practice.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 8, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday with an article about the report on Iraq's prewar weapons programs misidentified one of three Democratic senators conferring in the Armed Services Committee room. He was Jack Reed of Rhode Island, not Harry Reid of Nevada.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Democratic Senators Harry Reid of Nevada, Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts conferred yesterday before the Armed Services Committee heard testimony on the Iraq weapons inspection report by Charles A. Duelfer, shown in photo at right with Brig. Gen. Joseph McMenamin of the Marine Corps. (Photographs by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)(pg. A28)Chart: ''The Report's Major Findings''A near-final report by Charles A. Duelfer on Iraq's banned weapons programs found that they were ''essentially destroyed'' in 1991. Some other main conclusions from the report:IRAQ'S STRATEGIC INTENTSaddam Hussein's main goal since 1991 was the lifting of United Nations sanctions.He intended to recreate Iraq's banned weapons capability after sanctions were lifted and sought to preserve the ''intellectual capital'' to do so.CHEMICAL WEAPONSIraq intended to restart its chemical weapons program once sanctions were lifted, though stockpiles were unilaterally destroyed in 1991.Activities at a storage depot cited by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell at the United Nations Security Council were not related to chemical weapons.MISSILE DELIVERY SYSTEMSIraq had plans for ballistic or cruise missiles with ranges from 250 to 620 miles, though none had progressed to production.Iraq did not appear to have any Scud missiles at the time of the U.S.-led invasion in March 2003 and it seems not to have after 1991.NUCLEAR WEAPONSMr. Hussein ended his nuclear program in 1991, and there was no evidence he tried to restart it.The country's ability to reconstitute the program had ''progressively decayed'' since the 1991 Persian Gulf war.BIOLOGICAL WEAPONSIraq's last banned weapons facility, a biological weapons plant called Al Hakam, was destroyed in 1996.Iraq could have restarted a rudimentary program fairly quickly but faced obstacles in re-establishing an effective capability, and there was no evidence it intended to do so.FINANCING AND PROCUREMENTMr. Hussein used the oil-forfood program to try to influence Security Council members.The Iraqi government amassed more than $11 billion through various illicit schemes, including $7.5 billion in economic trade agreements.(pg. A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL WEAPONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); FOOD CHARITIES (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); ELECTIONS (62%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (61%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Factories and Industrial Plants; Persian Gulf War; Terrorism; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Food; Foreign Aid; Intelligence Services

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%) United Nations

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (78%); HARRY REID (59%); TED KENNEDY (53%) Douglas Jehl; Charles Duelfer; Saddam Hussein; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); GULF STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) Iraq; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



163 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE ISSUE OF WAR: UNCONVENTIONAL WEAPONS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Saddam Hussein Sowed Confusion About Iraq's Arsenal as a Tactic of War

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
Saddam Hussein hid behind ambiguities and evasions about whether Iraq possessed unconventional weapons -- when in fact it had none -- partly as a deterrent to Iran, according to a report by the chief American arms inspector in Iraq.
 The former Iraqi leader never discussed deception as a policy and did not adopt a formal written directive outlining his orders, the report said. But privately he told aides, like Ali Hasan al-Majid, a close adviser, that ''the better part of war is deceiving,'' the report said. Mr. Majid said Mr. Hussein ''wanted to avoid appearing weak and did not reveal he was deceiving the world about the presence of W.M.D.,'' or weapons of mass destruction. 
 The report by the chief arms inspector, Charles A. Duelfer, described Mr. Hussein's posture on prohibited weapons as ''a difficult balancing act between the need to disarm to achieve sanctions relief while at the same time retaining a strategic deterrent.''
 Mr. Hussein never reconciled the two competing aims, the report found.
 ''The regime never resolved the contradiction inherent in this approach,'' it said. ''Ultimately, foreign perceptions of these tensions contributed to the destruction of the regime.''
 The report provided the first detailed examination of Mr. Hussein's thinking about unconventional weapons and offered an answer to one of the most enduring mysteries of the war in Iraq: why did Mr. Hussein risk so much to hide the truth that Iraq did not possess such weapons?
 Overall, Mr. Hussein's strategic actions were aimed at one overriding objective, ''the survival of himself, his regime and his legacy,'' the report concluded.
 The report found that Mr. Hussein purposely communicated an ambiguous impression about whether Iraq possessed these weapons mainly as a deterrent to Iran, Baghdad's longstanding adversary, which fought a brutal war with Iraq from 1980 to 1988.
 The report, based on interrogations of Mr. Hussein, who was captured late last year, and his subordinates, said the confusion also helped Mr. Hussein disguise his underlying desire to maintain the intellectual and industrial foundation needed to quickly rebuild a weapons program in the event Iraq succeeded in lifting international economic sanctions, another top priority for the former Iraqi leader.
 Beyond that, Mr. Hussein maintained an almost mystical faith in the power of unconventional weapons, whose stocks, the inspector said, were largely destroyed by Iraq after the 1991 Persian Gulf war under pressure from the United Nations. The report found that Mr. Hussein believed that these weapons, particularly chemical arms, had preserved his rule through repeated military crises.
 Earlier this year, the report said, Mr. Hussein was asked by an American interrogator why he had not used such weapons during the 1991 gulf war. Mr. Hussein replied, according to the report: ''Do you think we are mad? What would the world have thought of us? We would have completely discredited those who had supported us.''
 The report's conclusions are based in part on interrogations of Mr. Hussein conducted primarily by a senior F.B.I. interrogator who spent months questioning the former Iraqi leader in Arabic, attempting to extract information from Mr. Hussein about his weapons programs and other issues. It is not clear from the report whether the former Iraqi leader accepted the motives attributed to him. 
 Some American intelligence officials have said that Mr. Hussein was vague in responses to questions about his arsenal, and the report does not state explicitly whether Mr. Hussein himself has acknowledged that he engaged in a deception operation about these weapons before the war.
 The report said Mr. Hussein's belief in unconventional weapons stemmed from their use in the Iran-Iraq war when the former Iraqi leader concluded that Iraq was ''saved'' by employing chemical weapons against Iran. The report concluded that Mr. Hussein believed such weapons had helped him ''multiple times,'' helping to stop Iranian ground offensives, and that ballistic missile attacks on Tehran had ''broken its political will.''
 In 1991, Mr. Hussein believed the threat that Iraq might use these weapons had helped deter the United States-led coalition from advancing as far as Baghdad. After that war, American authorities found unused chemical munitions that had been distributed to battlefield commanders. 
 The report said Mr. Hussein refused to dispel the impression that he still had such weapons even though the report concluded that his specialized weapons programs were nonexistent or mothballed in the early development stage because of international sanctions.
 In Mr. Hussein's mind, the possibility that Iraq possessed these weapons helped keep Iraq's neighbors off balance. The report said the former Iraqi leader had compared the United Nations inspection process to an analogy of a warrior striking an enemy's wrist. ''Despite the strength of the arm, striking the wrist or elbow can be a more decisive blow to incapacitate the entire arm; knowledge of your opponent's weakness is a weapon in itself.''
 But Mr. Hussein, the report said, was concerned that the inspections would ''expose Iraq's vulnerability in comparison with Iran. He apparently realized that his adversaries were not the only ones who were confused by what the report referred to as Mr. Hussein's ''mixed messages.''
 According to the report, Mr. Hussein confused his own generals because he tried to foster the impression among them that Iraq could resist a ground attack using unconventional weapons.
 ''Then in a series of meetings in 2002, Saddam appears to have reversed course and advised various groups of senior officers and officials that Iraq did not in fact have W.M.D.,'' the report said.
 Mr. Hussein's words had an immediate impact. Military morale plummeted when top commanders realized after the meetings in December 2002 that they would have to face the United States military with only conventional arms. Mr. Hussein created more confusion in March 2003 -- the month American-led forces invaded -- when he implied to his ministers and senior officers ''that he had some kind of secret weapon.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Saddam Hussein, in an image cleared by the American military, in a courtroom at Camp Victory. (Pool Photo by Karen Ballard) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DESERT STORM (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); IRAQ WAR (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); TERRORISM (69%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%) Biological and Chemical Warfare; Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Persian Gulf War

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (94%) David Johnston; Saddam (Pres) Hussein; Charles A Duelfer

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (90%) Iraq; Iran; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



164 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Stump Speech Retooled, Bush Goes on Attack

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: FARMINGTON HILLS, Mich., Oct. 6 

 BODY:
President Bush delivered a scathing, point-by-point critique on Wednesday of Senator John Kerry's stands on national security and the economy, giving no ground on either his decision to go to war or growing questions about mistakes in the occupation of Iraq.
 In a retooled and highly combative stump speech delivered on the day when a new report raised questions about his rationale for going to war, Mr. Bush seemed to be trying to make up ground that polls show he lost during last week's debate. He accused Mr. Kerry of ''proposing policies and doctrines that would weaken America and make the world more dangerous'' and of pursuing a ''strategy of retreat'' in Iraq. 
 ''Last week in our debate, he once again came down firmly on every side of the Iraq war,'' Mr. Bush said of Mr. Kerry, to ripples of laughter from a partisan audience in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. ''He stated that Saddam Hussein was a threat and that America had no business removing that threat. Senator Kerry said our soldiers and marines are not fighting for a mistake -- but also called the liberation of Iraq a 'colossal error.' He said we need to do more to train Iraqis, but he also said we shouldn't be spending so much money over there. He said he wants to hold a summit meeting, so he can invite other countries to join what he calls 'the wrong war in the wrong place at the wrong time.''' 
 Mr. Bush's new speech signaled that he would stand firm between now and Election Day over his handling of Iraq and appeared to be an effort to take attention away from the 918-page report released in Washington on Wednesday detailing how Saddam Hussein's stockpiles of unconventional weapons had been dismantled years before the invasion last year, and how the Iraqi dictator's ability to pose a serious military threat -- a justification for war Mr. Bush still makes regularly -- had eroded after 1991. 
 But the speech also gave the president a chance to break the cycle of news articles about his performance in the last debate and to accomplish in a controlled setting what many Republicans have said the president failed to do as forcefully as he needed: draw sharp, compelling differences between his position and record and those of Mr. Kerry. He tried to do so in many different areas, arguing that Mr. Kerry had earned the title of ''the single most liberal member of the Senate'' by ''voting for higher taxes, more regulation, more junk lawsuits and more government control over your life.'' 
 But Mr. Bush was silent on the weapons report. And he made no mention of Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld's statement on Monday that he had seen no firm evidence of a link between Mr. Hussein and Al Qaeda, or of the statement by his former top official in Iraq, L. Paul Bremer III, that the United States had not put enough troops into Iraq to secure the country.
 ''Look, the decision's been made that the president just isn't going to get into an introspective mode of 'we could have done this better,''' said one administration official who sat in on many of the campaign's strategy meetings. Such concessions, the official said, would ''play right into'' Mr. Kerry's argument. There was a time for Mr. Bush to make such concessions, the official said, but ''that moment passed months ago.'' To do so now, the official argued, would both undercut the campaign and the 138,000 American troops in Iraq.
 The result, many around Mr. Bush concede, is that the president is taking a considerable risk in the next 27 days that he will appear out of touch with the realities on the ground in Iraq -- and indeed Mr. Kerry's campaign quickly sought to exploit that vulnerability on Wednesday. But one of Mr. Bush's closest aides said that ''it's more important that he shows he is going to stick with it, not look back, and make this work.''
 In fact, Mr. Bush's new speech did not contain a line he has often used acknowledging that no caches of chemical and biological weapons had been uncovered in Iraq. 
 Instead, like Vice President Dick Cheney in his debate with Senator John Edwards on Tuesday night, Mr. Bush mounted an unapologetic defense of his decision to invade Iraq, insisting that it had made the United States and the world safer.
 The only potential shortcoming that Mr. Bush alluded to was his own body language during his performance against Mr. Kerry in their first debate last Thursday, when he appeared annoyed with his Democratic opponent. After running through a litany of what he said were Mr. Kerry's vacillating positions, Mr. Bush said, to roars of laughter and approval from his audience of supporters in Wilkes-Barre, ''You hear all that and you can understand why somebody would make a face.''
 Mr. Edwards, speaking to a crowd in Florida, said that Mr. Bush was ''completely out of touch with reality.'' Referring to the Iraq report and to Mr. Bremer's recent comments, Mr. Edwards added: ''All of that known, and Dick Cheney said again last night that he would have done everything the same. George Bush said he would have done everything the same. They're in a complete state of denial about what's happening in Iraq.'' 
 Mr. Kerry's aides said Mr. Bush was seeking a do-over after losing last Thursday's debate.
 ''I can't remember an incumbent president of the United States, against a challenger, giving a speech so harsh and negative as today,'' Michael D. McCurry, a senior spokesman for Mr. Kerry, told reporters gathered in Englewood, Colo., where Mr. Kerry is preparing for the next debate on Friday in St. Louis. By the end of the day the Kerry campaign had thrown together a new television commercial saying that Mr. Bush was ''desperately attacking'' Mr. Kerry in an effort to make up for his performance in the debate.
 At the debate on Friday, the two presidential candidates will take questions from an audience of swing voters. With that debate likely to cover domestic and foreign policy issues, Mr. Bush used his speech to hone a vigorous assault on Mr. Kerry's economic agenda, saying the Democrat would raise taxes, create ''Hillary care,'' a health care system in which the government would make medical decisions, and allow trial lawyers to harm the economy by subjecting businesses to frivolous lawsuits.
 ''My opponent is a tax-and-spend liberal; I'm a compassionate conservative,'' Mr. Bush said. ''My opponent wants to empower government; I want to use government to empower people. My opponent seems to think all the wisdom is found in Washington, D.C.; I trust the wisdom of the American people.''
 But Mr. Bush was most intense in asserting that Mr. Kerry not only shifted with the winds on national security, but also held contradictory positions that would make it impossible for him to govern. That was a message that Mr. Bush had been primed to deliver in the first debate, but never really got across, some of his advisers have said.
 His message came down to one basic point: that he would do a better job than Mr. Kerry of keeping the nation safe.
 ''In our debate, Senator Kerry said that removing Saddam Hussein was a mistake because the threat was not imminent,'' Mr. Bush said. ''The problem with this approach is obvious: if America waits until a threat is at our doorstep, it might be too late to save lives. Tyrants and terrorists will not give us polite notice before they launch an attack on our country. I refuse to stand by while dangers gather.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush attacked Senator John Kerry yesterday in a speech in Farmington Hills, Mich., and earlier in the day in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. (Photo by Mario Tama/Getty Images)(pg. A30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); AL-QAEDA (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); LIBERALISM (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (67%); ARMED FORCES (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Debating; Election Issues; Terrorism; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%) Richard W Stevenson; David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Saddam Hussein; Charles Duelfer; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; L Paul III Bremer

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Wilkes-Barre (Pa); Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



165 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: The Verdict Is In

 BODY:
Sanctions worked. Weapons inspectors worked. That is the bottom line of the long-awaited report on weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, written by President Bush's handpicked investigator.
 In the 18 months since President Bush ordered the invasion of Iraq, justifying the decision by saying that Saddam Hussein was ''a gathering threat'' to the United States, Americans have come to realize that Iraq had no chemical, nuclear or biological weapons. But the report issued yesterday goes further. It says that Iraq had no factories to produce illicit weapons and that its ability to resume production was growing more feeble every year. While Mr. Hussein retained dreams of someday getting back into the chemical warfare business, his chosen target was Iran, not the United States. 
 The report shows that the international sanctions that Mr. Bush dismissed and demeaned before the war -- and still does -- were astonishingly effective. Mr. Hussein hoped to get out from under the sanctions, and the report's author, Charles Duelfer, loyally told Congress yesterday that he thought that could have happened. But his report said the Iraqis lacked even a formal strategy or a plan to reconstitute their weapons programs if it did.
 For months, administration officials have tried to deflect charges that they invaded Iraq under false pretenses and have urged critics to wait for Mr. Duelfer's verdict on the weapons search. The authoritative findings of his Iraq Survey Group have now left the administration's rationale for war more tattered than ever. It turns out that Iraq destroyed all stockpiles of illicit weapons more than a decade ago and had no large-scale production facilities left after 1996, seven years before the invasion. This was a matter of choice by Saddam Hussein, who desperately wanted an end to sanctions and feared that any weapons programs, if discovered by inspectors, would only keep them in place. 
 Even after U.N. inspectors left Iraq in 1998, a period when Western intelligence experts assumed the worst might be happening, the Hussein regime made no active efforts to produce new weapons of mass destruction. The much-feared nuclear threat -- that looming mushroom cloud conjured by the administration to stampede Congress into authorizing an invasion -- was a phantom. Mr. Duelfer found that even if Iraq had tried to restart its defunct nuclear program in 2003, it would have needed years to produce a nuclear weapon.
 Since any objective observer should by now have digested the idea that Iraq posed no imminent threat to anyone, let alone the United States, it was disturbing to hear President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney continue to try to justify the invasion this week on the grounds that after Sept. 11, 2001, Iraq was clearly the most likely place for terrorists to get illicit weapons. Even if Mr. Hussein had wanted to arm groups he could not control -- a very dubious notion-- he had nothing to give them.
 Administration officials will no doubt point to sections of the report citing evidence that front companies were supplying Iraq with banned materials, and that Iraq had money and expertise that could be used to make weapons. They will also point to Mr. Duelfer's speculation that support for the sanctions was eroding. But nothing in the voluminous record provides Mr. Bush with the justification he wanted for a preventive war because the weapons programs did not exist. And as the war continues to bog down, the power of nonviolent international sanctions looks more muscular every day. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (89%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); WRITERS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (61%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Editorials; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); DICK CHENEY (58%) Saddam Hussein; George W (Pres) Bush; Charles Duelfer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%) Iraq; Iran; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



166 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Europe File Complaints In Trade Battle

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
The United States and the European Union reignited their long-festering trade war over commercial aircraft subsidies Wednesday, with Washington and Brussels both taking complaints to the World Trade Organization after bilateral talks failed to resolve the bitter dispute.
 The chief trade negotiator for the United States said that the government would file a complaint against Europe before the trade organization over what the United States regards as lavish subsidies for Airbus. The Europeans promptly retaliated by starting their own W.T.O. countercomplaint contending that the United States unfairly supports Boeing's airline business through a variety of means, including military programs that subsidize its commercial operations.
 The clash pits Boeing, the nation's largest exporter, against Airbus, which has recently overtaken its American rival as the world's leading supplier of commercial aircraft. 
 The United States wants European countries to end direct loans to Airbus, which it charges has been the beneficiary of as much as $40 billion in government aid through low-interest loans.
 Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, said he had no choice but to break off talks with Europe intended to extend a 1992 agreement covering government support to the commercial aircraft industry. He filed the complaint, he said, after learning that Airbus was planning to rely on further subsidies to develop a new aircraft to compete with Boeing's planned next generation midsize airliner.
 ''The E.U. and Airbus appear to want to buy more time for more subsidies for more planes,'' Mr. Zoellick said in a statement. ''This isn't fair and it violates international trading rules.''
 American officials have long complained that Airbus, which was started by European governments to counter Boeing's dominance of the business, does not deserve any form of government aid, particularly now that it is building a jumbo jet to challenge Boeing's 747 in the one segment of the market Boeing still has to itself.
 ''Since its creation 35 years ago,'' Mr. Zoellick said, ''some Europeans have justified subsidies to Airbus as necessary to support an 'infant' industry. If that rationalization were ever valid, its time has long passed.''
 But European officials discounted the American argument, saying that the talks broke down because the United States wanted to limit discussion to what it considered Europe's illegal subsidies. The Europeans argued that negotiations should include what they consider equally egregious support totaling as much as $23 billion in government-financed research and development as well as tax relief. 
 Europe's chief trade negotiator, Pascal Lamy, said in a statement that he would have preferred to avoid a legal dispute, but explained that since the United States had started one, Europe would follow suit.
 ''We accept the challenge,'' Mr. Lamy said, ''not least because it is high time to put an end to massive illegal U.S. subsidies to Boeing, which damage Airbus.''
 European officials said that they feared that election-year politics were a reason that the United States broke off talks.
 ''To argue over whose subsidies are cleaner is a nonstarter,'' said Arancha Gonzalez, a spokeswoman for Mr. Lamy, Europe's departing trade commissioner. ''We both know that both sides' governments support their respective industries. The United States is closing its eyes to the reality that Boeing gets support from its own government.''
 Congressional Democrats applauded the administration's decision to file a case with the trade organization over Airbus subsidies, but also sought to take credit for pushing the action, hoping to prevent the Bush administration from scoring political points in the final three weeks of the campaign.
 Boeing issued a statement supporting Washington's action, saying that it was time for Airbus to accept the notion that it was now so successful and profitable that it should abandon further direct subsidies.
 ''We remain determined to ensure that competition in the large commercial aircraft market is undistorted by such subsidies,'' said Harry C. Stonecipher, chief executive of Boeing.
 But some trade experts questioned why the United States brought the case before the W.T.O., opening the possibility that a verdict could lead to multibillion-dollar penalties against both Europe and the United States. Some of them argued that it would be difficult for the W.T.O. to untangle government support from either company without threatening the industry.
 ''I don't see anyone wearing a white hat in this dispute,'' said Dan Griswold, director of trade policy studies at the Cato Institute. ''The governments will always be mixed up with commercial aircraft manufacturing; they have to be because of government's demand for aircraft.''
 The escalation of the dispute into a full-scale trade war could backfire, said Claude E. Barfield, resident scholar and trade expert at the American Enterprise Institute.
 ''It is irresponsible for both sides to let this go through the World Trade Organization,'' Mr. Barfield said. ''These are the two big boys, the elephants of the industry. What happens if penalties are levied against either of them? We all lose.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Part of an Airbus A380 aircraft is prepared for shipment. Subsidies to Airbus are part of a dispute between Europe and the United States. (Photo by Maurizio Gambarini/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; International Trade and World Market; Military Aircraft; Credit; Defense Contracts; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) European Union; World Trade Organization; Airbus Industrie; Boeing Co

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (79%); PASCAL LAMY (58%) Elizabeth Becker; Robert B (Trade Rep) Zoellick

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); BELGIUM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



167 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE RUNNING MATES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: For Cheney and Edwards, It's Now a Running Debate

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and RAYMOND HERNANDEZ; Randal C. Archibold reported from West Palm Beach, Raymond Hernandez from Tallahassee, Fla., and Katharine Q. Seelye contributed from Washington.

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH, Fla., Oct. 6 

 BODY:
Still simmering from their contentious debate, Vice President Dick Cheney and Senator John Edwards traded shots in this pivotal state on Wednesday over the handling of the Iraq war, who is fitter to lead the nation in wartime and even the importance of when and where they first met. 
 Mr. Edwards, the Democratic vice-presidential nominee, used a rally and brief news conference here to accuse the Bush administration of being ''in a complete state of denial'' over the course of the Iraq war and the economy.
 Mr. Cheney, at a town-hall-style stop in Tallahassee, attacked Senator John Kerry's fitness to command, saying, ''There isn't anything in John Kerry's background, in the last 30 years, that gives you any reason to believe that he would, in fact, be tough in terms of prosecuting the war on terror.'' 
 On the campaign trail, they even continued a side debate on whether they had previously met before the debate on Tuesday, both seeking to turn the disputed point to political advantage.
 In questioning Mr. Edwards's absenteeism from Senate committees he has sat on, Mr. Cheney said the debate was the first time they had met.
 The Edwards camp quickly fired back, pointing out they had in fact met at least twice before, at a National Prayer Breakfast in 2001 and at the swearing in of Senator Elizabeth Dole of North Carolina in January 2003.
 ''Last night again we got a chance to sit together, to shake hands, to say a few words and I'll tell you one thing I'm pretty sure of,'' Mr. Edwards told the rally here. ''He won't forget we were there last night.''
 ''But the struggle with the truth is not just about whether we met before,'' he went on. ''They struggle on the most basic issues facing America today.''
 But the Cheney camp accused Mr. Edwards of sidestepping the issue of his absenteeism. Mr. Cheney told Mr. Edwards he had missed 33 out of 36 meetings of the Judiciary Committee and nearly 70 percent of the meetings of the Intelligence Committee and had missed ''key votes'' on tax, energy and health care legislation.
 Mr. Edwards did not dispute the point in the debate, but in an interview with WTVJ-TV in Miami he called the assertion ''a typical distortion," without elaborating.
 At the vice president's event, his wife, Lynne Cheney, said, ''The Edwards people have been scrambling around ever since trying to come up with places where the Cheneys and Edwards might have crossed paths.''
 ''They say we met at a prayer breakfast nearly four years ago,'' she continued, drawing laughs. ''Now, I agree it's a really good thing to go to prayer breakfasts. But don't you think the senator ought to go to the Senate once in a while?''
 Mr. Edwards's wife, Elizabeth, got into the act as well. Mrs. Edwards, who was in the audience at the debate, said that when Mr. Cheney said he had never met her husband, she immediately remembered the breakfast.
 After the debate, Mrs. Edwards said in a telephone interview on Wednesday, she went on stage to greet her husband and found herself next to Mr. Cheney. She recounted the scene:
 ''I didn't go up with a plan to confront him,'' she said. ''But I turned and he was there and in a good-natured way I said, 'Hello, Mr. Vice President. By the way, y'all sat next to each other at the prayer breakfast.' And he said, 'Oh, yeah.''' 
 Much of the day, however, focused on more sober matters.
 Mr. Edwards sought to rebut a speech that Mr. Bush gave on Iraq and economy, saying the president had not presented any new ideas to address problems, for example the loss of jobs and the insurgency in Iraq.
 ''They can't fix the mess if they don't recognize there is a mess,'' Mr. Edwards told the crowd in Florida, ranked with Ohio among the most pivotal states in this year's election.
 Afterward he held a brief, rare news conference to re-emphasize the points he made in the rally.
 He said, ''I sat a few feet from Vice President Cheney and he continues to be unwilling to level with the American people,'' on an array of topics, including the war, the lack of a direct connection between Saddam Hussein and the terrorist attacks in 2001 and the growing nuclear threat posed by North Korea and Iraq.
 Mr. Cheney, whom strategists in both parties said delivered a stronger debate performance than President Bush had a week earlier, mocked the Democrats, accusing them of engaging in little more than ''tough talk'' on national defense matters in the heat of a campaign.
 He noted that Mr. Kerry had suggested that he would cede authority over the military to the United Nations when he was a candidate for Congress three decades ago; that he voted against the first gulf war, in 1991, that drove Iraq from Kuwait; and that he voted against an $87 billion measure that Congress enacted last year to finance military operations in Iraq and in Afghanistan.
 ''Try as they might, John Kerry and John Edwards cannot, with tough talk, obscure a record that goes back 30 years and has been consistently on the wrong side of virtually every issue that dealt with the nation's security,'' Mr. Cheney said.
 But a spokesman for the Kerry campaign, Phil Singer, fired back on Wednesday, saying the war in Iraq has become a diversion from the larger war against terrorism.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Large TV Audience Tuesday
 (By The New York Times), WASHINGTON, Oct. 6 -- At least 43.6 million people watched the debate on Tuesday, an unexpectedly large audience that nearly matched that of the first presidential debate in 2000 between George W. Bush and Al Gore, according to Nielsen Media Research data released Wednesday.
 That debate was watched by at least 46.6 million people. The 2000 vice-presidential debate, between Mr. Cheney and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, was watched by 29 million.
 The Tuesday night debate was the most-watched vice-presidential face-off since the three-way debate with Mr. Gore, Dan Quayle and James B. Stockdale, Ross Perot's running mate, in 1992. At least 51.2 million people watched that.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 14, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article last Thursday about charges exchanged by Vice President Dick Cheney and Senator John Edwards two days after their debate misidentified one of two countries thought to be a nuclear threat -- one of several issues on which Mr. Edwards said the vice president was not being candid with voters. The countries were North Korea and Iran, not Iraq.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Vice President Dick Cheney, in Tallahassee, Fla., yesterday questioned the fitness of Senator John Kerry to command the nation's forces. (Photo by Steve Cannon/Associated Press)
 Senator John Edwards, in West Palm Beach, Fla., said yesterday that the Bush administration was in a state of denial over the war in Iraq. (Photo by Roberto Schmidt/Agence France-Presse-Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); TERRORISM (70%); RELIGION (65%); HEALTH CARE LAW (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); Debating

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (93%); DICK CHENEY (93%); JOHN KERRY (93%); ELIZABETH DOLE (58%) Randal C Archibold; Raymond Hernandez; John (Sen) Edwards; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



168 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: The Battle Of the Pump

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Of all the shortsighted policies of President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney, none have been worse than their opposition to energy conservation and a gasoline tax. If we had imposed a new gasoline tax after 9/11, demand would have been dampened and gas today would probably still be $2 a gallon. But instead of the extra dollar going to Saudi Arabia -- where it ends up with mullahs who build madrasas that preach intolerance -- that dollar would have gone to our own Treasury to pay down our own deficit and finance our own schools. In fact, the Bush energy policy should be called No Mullah Left Behind. 
 Our own No Child Left Behind program has not been fully financed because the tax revenue is not there. But thanks to the Bush-Cheney energy policy, No Mullah Left Behind has been fully financed and is now the gift that keeps on giving: terrorism. 
 Mr. Bush says we're in ''a global war on terrorism.'' That's right. But that war is rooted in the Arab-Muslim world. That means there is no war on terrorism that doesn't involve helping this region onto a more promising path for its huge population of young people -- too many of whom are unemployed or unemployable because their oil-rich regimes are resistant to change and their religious leaders are resisting modernity.
 A former Kuwaiti information minister, Sad bin Tefla, wrote an article in a London Arabic daily, Al Sharq Al Awsat, last Sept. 11 entitled ''We Are All Bin Laden.'' He asked why Muslim scholars and clerics had eagerly supported fatwas condemning Salman Rushdie to death after he wrote a novel deemed insulting to Islam, ''The Satanic Verses,'' but to this day no Muslim cleric has issued a fatwa condemning Osama bin Laden for murdering nearly 3,000 innocent civilians, badly damaging Islam.
 Building a decent Iraq is necessary to help reverse such trends, but it is not sufficient. We need a much more comprehensive approach, particularly if we fail in Iraq. The Bush team does not offer one. It has treated the Arab-Israeli issue with benign neglect, failed to find any way to communicate with the Arab world and adopted an energy policy that is supporting the worst Arab oil regimes and the worst trends. Phil Verleger, one of the nation's top energy consultants and a longtime advocate of a gas tax, puts it succinctly: ''U.S. energy policy today is in support of terrorism -- not the war on terrorism.''
 We need to dramatically cut our consumption of oil and bring the price back down to $20 a barrel. Nothing would do more to stimulate reform in the Arab-Muslim world. Oil regimes do not have to modernize or govern well. They just buy off their people and their mullahs. Governments without oil have to reform to create jobs. People do not change when you tell them they should -- they change when they tell themselves they must.
 The Arab-Muslim world is in a must-change human development crisis, ''but oil is like a narcotic that kills a lot of the pain for them and prevents real change,'' says David Rothkopf, a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
 Where is all the innovation in the Arab world today? In the places with little or no oil: Bahrain is working on labor reform, just signed a free-trade agreement with the U.S. and held the first elections in the Arab gulf, allowing women to run and vote. Dubai has made itself into a regional service center. And Jordan has a free-trade agreement with the U.S. and is trying to transform itself into a knowledge economy. Who is paralyzed or rolling back reforms? Saudi Arabia, Syria and Iran, all now awash in oil money.
 When did Jordan begin privatizing and deregulating its economy and upgrading its education system? In 1989 -- after oil prices had slumped and the Arab oil states cut off Jordan's subsidies. In 1999, before Jordan signed its U.S. free-trade accord, its exports to America totaled $13 million. This year, Jordan will export over $1 billion worth of goods to the U.S. In the wake of King Abdullah II's reforms, Jordan's economy is growing at an annual rate of over 7 percent, the government is installing computers and broadband Internet links in every school, and it will soon require anyone who wants to study Islamic law and become a mosque preacher to first get a B.A. in something else, so mosque leaders won't just come from those who can't do anything else. ''We had to go through a crisis to accept the need for reform,'' says Jordan's planning minister, Bassem Awadallah.
 We have the power right now to stimulate similar trends across the Arab world. It's the best way to fight a global war on terrorism. If only we had a president and vice president tough enough to fight this war. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); FUEL TAX (91%); TERRORISM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TRENDS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); POLITICS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (76%); EDUCATION LAW (75%); AL-QAEDA (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (70%); POPULATION SIZE (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Terrorism; Politics and Government; Taxation

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DICK CHENEY (88%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (57%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (52%) Thomas L Friedman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%) Saudi Arabia; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



169 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: Howard Stern Signs Rich Deal in Jump To Satellite Radio

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER and JEFF LEEDS

 BODY:
Howard Stern, one of the most popular but polarizing personalities in radio, has proclaimed his emancipation from the decency czars of the F.C.C. 
 Mr. Stern announced on his show yesterday morning that he had signed a lucrative contract that will move him from commercial broadcast radio to Sirius Satellite Radio starting in January 2006. His listeners there will have to pay $12.95 a month but he will no longer be bound by government strictures.
 The deal is a risky bet by Sirius that the addition of Mr. Stern will help the concept of pay radio gain national acceptance -- and quickly bring the company to profitability. And it is a blow to Viacom, whose struggling Infinity Broadcasting unit produces and syndicates the show. 
 But for Mr. Stern, the jump to satellite is worth trading his regular audience of about 12 million people for Sirius's 600,000 current listeners. While the new deal will pay him more than he currently makes, Mr. Stern said in a telephone interview yesterday that his biggest motivation was escaping the oversight of the Federal Communications Commission. The recently emboldened agency has made him its most high-profile bete noire in a campaign to clean up the airwaves, levying hundreds of thousands of dollars in fines on stations that allowed some of Mr. Stern's sexual and scatological references to be broadcast, and prompting Clear Channel Communications to pull him off six of its stations.
 ''I have to get away from all these restrictions,'' Mr. Stern said. ''Between the government and the religious fanatics, they are ruining what has been exciting about radio.'' 
 Sirius, which began broadcasting in 2002, is available with the purchase of a satellite radio receiver for about $150, although many automakers include a receiver in their option packages. Listeners receive 65 commercial-free music channels and nearly as many channels of sports, news and talk, which carry modest levels of commercials compared with commercial radio. 
 Sirius, however, is a distant second to XM Satellite Radio, which has more than four times the number of subscribers. That second-place status helps explain why Sirius has guaranteed to pay $100 million a year for five years for Mr. Stern's show, covering all salary, production and studio costs. 
 Sirius executives compared the signing of Mr. Stern to other transformational moments in the history of American media. Joseph P. Clayton, the chief executive of Sirius, cited Rupert Murdoch's decision in 1993 to spend $1.4 billion to acquire for the Fox Broadcasting Company the rights to games in the National Football League previously held for 38 years by CBS. 
 That move ultimately led to the defection of many CBS affiliated stations to Fox, and it has been cited as the watershed moment in establishing Fox as a full-fledged competitor with ABC, NBC and CBS.
 Other media executives and historians found parallels to the moves to television made by radio stars like Milton Berle in the late 1940's. ''Berle was the first radio star who was willing to go to the new, low-rent medium of television,'' Robert Thompson, a professor of popular culture at Syracuse University, said. ''Jack Benny and Burns and Allen waited a little longer, until television was established.''
 Not all efforts at transforming the media world have worked. In the mid-1990's a consortium of phone companies tried to create in a company called Tele-TV an interactive wireless alternative to cable. Within two years the venture closed, at a loss of more than $300 million.
 But Mr. Clayton dismissed concerns that Sirius was risking the company on its commitment to Mr. Stern. ''Absolutely not,'' he said. ''We still have over $600 million in cash. We're coming to this big play fully funded.''
 Some analysts applauded yesterday's move as both bold and sound. ''They've given themselves a name,'' said David Kestenbaum, an equity analyst with IRG Research. He predicted that the deal would pump new life into automakers' promotions of the satellite services, and for Sirius, once seen as in financial peril, ''they can go out and raise money now, and I think they'll be fine.''
 Mr. Stern said he might initially miss the opportunity ''to be able to reach millions of people instantly.'' But he said: ''I believe in satellite radio. Economically, it's the future.''
 Still, he acknowledged that the attacks on him by critics of the content played a significant role in his decision. Mr. Stern's act, which he himself described yesterday as ''bathroom humor,'' has long raised the hackles of some listeners, advertisers and the F.C.C. Since 1990, the stations carrying his show have been fined more than $2 million. 
 But in the last year, particularly since the Janet Jackson breast-baring incident at the Super Bowl, the F.C.C. has adopted a more stringent test on what it considers acceptable programming on the airwaves. 
 ''When we do best-of shows and replay some of the material we've done in years past, there is sometimes 50 percent to 60 percent of it that we can't use,'' Mr. Stern said. ''Bits are hacked; interviews are cut off.'' 
 He said he did not blame the station managers for taking those steps. ''They have to protect their licenses,'' he said. ''We've had these religious fanatics going after my advertisers. It's been like a jihad.''
 Much of his public fury has been directed at President Bush. ''The Republican Party used to stand for less government in your life, less intervention in your life, less control in your bedroom and private life,'' he said on his show during the summer. ''They no longer stand for that.''
 He has openly called on fans of the show to vote Mr. Bush out of office. And the home page of his Web site is devoted to registering people to vote. 
 Whether Mr. Stern will have any effect on the election is unclear, but his departure will set back Infinity Broadcasting. 
 A J.P. Morgan analyst, Spencer Wang, who tracks Viacom, estimated in an investor note that the Stern show generated about $50 million in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for Infinity, on $100 million in revenue, and characterized the impact on the company as ''relatively modest.'' 
 Indeed Viacom's official position on losing Mr. Stern, as expressed by a spokesman, was, ''It will have no material effect on the company.'' 
 Viacom last year had earnings of $1.4 billion on revenue of $26.6 billion. Its shares rose 32 cents, to $35.77. Sirius was up 52 cents, to $3.87.
 But the broader fallout could be substantial, as Infinity stations find themselves in need of a new identity, jeopardizing sales and ratings. 
 Leslie Moonves, the co-president and co-chief operating officer of Viacom, said he had tried to keep Mr. Stern at the company, ''Obviously we had long talks with him,'' Mr. Moonves said. ''The only thing I'm going to say is it was related to the restrictions and the F.C.C. fines.''
 More broadly, Mr. Stern's departure is likely to accelerate an already intense fight between owners of free, over-the-air broadcast outlets and paid cable and satellite programmers. Already, many executives in the traditional radio world say it is not fair for satellite programmers to exist essentially without the burden of decency standards and regulation.
 ''We need a level playing field or free radio will be at risk,'' said Andrew Levin, chief legal officer for Clear Channel Communications. 
 But analysts point out that the licenses provided to traditional broadcasters convey substantial benefits -- broad reach and, in the cable world, guarantees of being carried on cable systems. 
 ''The broadcasters have to decide, in order to receive the benefits of being a public trustee, are they willing to accept the limitations of being a public trustee?'' said Blair Levin, a managing director of Legg Mason and former chief of staff at the F.C.C. ''Or will they say, we want a level playing field?'' 
 For Mr. Stern, the main question remaining is how he will deal with the total freedom he will be afforded by being out from under the scrutiny of the F.C.C. ''I'm not going to go overboard,'' he said. ''Obviously I use what might be called saltier language in my day-to-day conversations. But if you do too much of that it becomes not as funny.''
 Mr. Thompson of Syracuse said the question might be not how much Mr. Stern gains from the freedom of satellite, but how much he might lose. ''Some of the pure energy and excitement of guys like Stern came from the fact that they were breaking the rules,'' he said. ''If the teacher walks in and says you can throw all the spitballs you want, you can put tacks on my chair, you can cheat off each other's paper, the class clown is in trouble. His whole act is over.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Howard Stern says his move is more about freedom than money. (Photo by Eddie Malluk/WireImage.com)(pg. A1)
 Joseph P. Clayton, the chief executive of Sirius, dismissed concerns that Sirius was risking the company on its commitment to Howard Stern. (Photo by Ed Bailey/Associated Press)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE RADIO (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); ETHICS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); HISTORY (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (50%); SPORTS (50%) Radio; Sex; Ethics; Fines (Penalties); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Radio; Satellites; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Pornography and Obscenity

COMPANY: SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (92%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); VIACOM INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%) Sirius Satellite Radio Inc; Federal Communications Commission; Viacom Inc; Infinity Broadcasting Corp

TICKER: SIRI (NASDAQ) (92%); VIA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (92%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (90%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (90%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%)

PERSON: HOWARD STERN (94%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%) Bill Carter; Jeff Leeds; Howard Stern

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004



170 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: A survey shows slight gains in how agencies and marketers relate, but there is room to improve.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
A CLOSELY followed survey that monitors relationships between advertisers and agencies is similar to recent presidential election polls: the results are too close to call.
 The survey, to be released today, shows improvements in several aspects of the connections between agencies and advertisers. Other important factors, however, remain at or near historic low points, according to the survey.
 The survey is likely to prompt discussion among marketers as they gather in Naples, Fla., for the 94th annual meeting of their trade organization, the Association of National Advertisers. The meeting, which began last night, continues through Sunday; a record attendance of more than 700 is expected. 
 When agencies and advertisers work together harmoniously, they tend to produce more effective work. That contributes to a belief among marketers that advertising is not a waste of scarce resources. Not surprisingly, doubts about the ability of advertising to persuade consumers to spend money lead marketers to reduce their ad budgets.
 ''It is a mixed bag,'' said Nancy L. Salz, president of Nancy L. Salz Consulting in New York, sponsor of the survey since 1986. ''Everything is better than it was last year, but last year everything was just so down.''
 A principal reason for the results of the 2004 Salz Survey of Advertiser-Agency Relations, as the study is formally called, is that ''the advertisers and agencies are coming from somewhat different places economically,'' Ms. Salz said, leading to ''different expectations that aren't being met on the other side.''
 For example, when asked to describe their sales or income in the current economic climate, 20 percent of advertisers said sales had greatly improved, while only 8 percent of agencies said income had greatly improved.
 And while only 7 percent of advertisers reported sales as slightly worse, 19 percent of agencies described their income that way.
 The inequality means that ''serious differences remain in the advertisers' and the agencies' perceptions of their relationships,'' Ms. Salz said. ''There's still plenty of room for improvement.''
 For instance, 55 percent of the advertisers responding to the survey reported an increased focus on how they work with their agencies, but only 12 percent of the agency respondents agreed. In fact, 15 percent of the agency respondents reported less focus; only 3 percent of the advertiser respondents agreed.
 Asked if there was an increased focus at agencies on the needs of their clients, 65 percent of the agency respondents agreed. But only 30 percent of the advertiser respondents did. No agency respondent said there was less focus on client needs, but 15 percent of the advertisers respondents said there was less focus.
 When advertisers were asked how much sales could improve if their agencies were always able to do the best possible work, the mean figure given by the respondents was 23.7 percent. While that was an increase from the anemic responses in the last two surveys -- 20.8 percent last year and 20.4 percent in 2002 -- the figure was as high as 27.7 percent as recently as 2001. The historic high occurred in 1997, when the respondents' mean figure for improved sales was 31.4 percent.
 ''If advertisers can get really great work, this is what it can do for their business,'' Ms. Salz said, ''and it doesn't cost any more.''
 When advertisers were asked to rate the quality of the work from their agencies on a scale of 1 to 10, with 10 as the peak, the mean rating continued at a relatively low 7.2, the same as last year and a marginal increase from 7.1 in 2001 and 2002. The figure was as high as 7.4 as recently as 1998; the historic high was 7.5 in 1986 and in 1996.
 Many impediments remain to obtaining higher-quality work, Ms. Salz said, listing them as ''so little time, so much pressure and reduced staff.''
 That manifested itself when the advertisers and agencies were asked to describe the amount of teamwork in their relationships. Fifty percent of advertisers said there was more teamwork, compared with 35 percent of agencies; 18 percent of advertisers said there was less teamwork, compared with 8 percent of agencies.
 Among the advertisers, 32 percent responded that the amount of teamwork was unchanged; among the agencies, 58 percent gave that response.
 Ms. Salz pointed to improvements in several categories as a reason for her belief that while the results of the 2004 survey were ''not perfect, it's better than it was.''
 For example, she said, there is agreement between the agencies and advertisers that their relationships are less focused on money, less tense and have fewer ''hassles.''
 The survey was conducted in May for Salz by Thurm Marketing and Consulting in Princeton, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); BUDGETS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Advertising and Marketing

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (57%) Salz, Nancy L, Consulting

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



171 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Escapes; ADVENTURER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1594 words

HEADLINE: Big City, Big Water

BYLINE: By KATHRYN JONES

 BODY:
EARLY on a summer Monday, four kayaks -- two red and two blue -- bobbed on the rain-swollen river's frothy waves. The paddlers maneuvered their craft to surf the tumbling water, like ocean surfers riding the big one. They disappeared underwater in rolls -- flipping their kayaks upside down and using the paddles to push back up. Occasionally, an exuberant ''Yeah!'' or ''Hoo-ee!'' rang out above the hissing of the torrent.
 The river boiled with the whitewater that experienced kayakers crave. ''It's running really fast,'' Robert Bone, 33, said enthusiastically as he took a break on the bank. He removed his cobalt-blue helmet, shook out his hair and sipped water from a bottle. Then, recharged, he squeezed back into his sleek kayak (Wave Blue brand, designed for ''extreme play'') to shoot some more rapids.
 Why not? He had plenty of time to get home, and the Interstate was less than a mile away, near the glass towers of the city skyline shimmering in the distance. 
 There is traditional whitewater, out in a high-country canyon where mountain lions peer down from the rocks as you shoot through. And then there is convenient whitewater -- the kind you can find just down the street from the office. And if nature failed to provide it, engineers and construction crews can. These kayakers were rolling in the Clear Fork of the Trinity River in Fort Worth, which used to snake its way through town as a placid ribbon of flat water but now, with the addition of chutes of pebbly concrete and big slabs of limestone, roils with Class II and III rapids.
 Whitewater kayaking, rafting and canoeing have gone urban in Fort Worth and several other places around the country as cities add boulders, obstructions and curves to bulk up their lazy rivers. And the closer to downtown, where commerce usually could use a push -- the better.
 Fort Worth installed its whitewater at the city-owned Trinity Park within the last year, while it was rehabilitating some worn-out flood-control dams. Dallas, just 30 miles downstream, is considering putting in whitewater on its own stretch of the Trinity.
 Reno, Nev., opened a $1.5 million whitewater course in May on the Truckee River. Harrah's and the Eldorado Reno Hotel and Casino together lent the project $1 million to start it, and now 11 casino-hotels in town are offering low-priced package deals combining lodging and kayak rentals.
 Green River, Wyo., installed a slalom course and a kayakers' learning channel on its namesake river. In Colorado, towns like Breckenridge, Vail and Steamboat Springs have pumped up whitewater in their rivers to lure kayakers in the skiing off-season.
 And Charlotte, N.C., taking whitewater creation to new heights, plans to break ground next year for a park using water from the Catawba River to create a custom-made river with adjustable rapids. An economic analysis projects $36.7 million annually for the Charlotte area from the project.
 Fort Worth's rapids are best for kayaking after a rain. (Families venture in to go tubing and rafting when the weather is drier and the water is calmer.) But many of the artificial whitewater courses have been designed to run not just when water flows are high, typically in the spring and fall, but also in dry summer months and, in southern and western states, all winter as well.
 ''People start kayaking in Colorado as soon as the ice breaks -- they could be here in February before that happens,'' said Randle Harwood, a Fort Worth parks official who supports a plan to follow up on the Trinity Park project and extend the season by turning Gateway Park, east of downtown, into a 2,000-foot-long course with a 14-foot drop splitting into numerous other drops. There's no money now for this new project, but the proponents are hopeful.
 While the civic promoters hope troubling the waters will increase tourism, in-town kayakers are eager to make the artificial rapids their own.
 ''Being able to get off work and drive 20 minutes and paddle is a tremendous convenience,'' said Steve Isenburg, 34, a Fort Worth suburbanite who was an alternate for the United States Olympic whitewater slalom team in 1996. And afterward, he can go out in Fort Worth for ''a beer and a burrito with friends.'' Before urban whitewater, he had been used to driving five or six hours for kayaking.
 ''What we needed was a whitewater rodeo,'' said Kathy Cash, a canoeist and past president of the North Texas River Runners, which lobbied for the rapids course as the city considered waterfront plans.
 The sudden abundance of watercraft around Fort Worth has caused some double takes. Traditionally, most people didn't stick a toe in the river. Some still associate it with a polluted past, or think of it as a flood-control channel. 
 Fort Worth walled in the Trinity with high banks and levees after a flood in 1949. Then, in the 1960's and 70's, people began to miss having a river that looked like a river. Activists and government agencies planted trees and built a trail network on the riverbank. Now there is a sweeping revitalization plan for the Trinity, not all of which goes in the direction of restoration or even faux naturalism. Corporate headquarters for Fort Worth-based Pier 1 Imports and RadioShack rise from the riverfront, and a master plan envisions waterfront development zones and an urban lake.
 ''You think about where many communities started and are located -- on a river,'' said Gary Lacy, owner and chief engineer of Recreation and Engineering Planning in Boulder, Colo., designer of the Fort Worth, Reno and Charlotte projects and 40 others, varying from a wave or two to complex whitewater playgrounds. ''Many times, though, the river had been neglected and not seen as an amenity.''
 Since the 1980's, cities have been scrambling to revive their waterfronts. But some still haven't caught on to whitewater.
 Consider Richmond, Va., where the whitewaters didn't even require a human architect. Richmond is the only major American city with natural rapids in its downtown -- and it has done little to tell anyone about them. The fall line of the James River runs for seven miles through Richmond, creating Class III and IV rapids that look as wild and unplotted as they are, with big boulders strewn about and lots of wildlife -- conditions kayakers love. Ralph White, manager of the James River Park System, conceded that the city has done ''a poor job'' of marketing this natural gift.
 But can kayaking an artificial course ever ever replace the natural experience?
 Mr. Isenburg, the Olympic-level competitor who uses the Fort Worth course, was varying his maneuvers one day after copious summer rains, from front-surfing and side-surfing to enders -- forcing his kayak's bow into the water and popping it up vertically for a second or two.
 He said he had been on the river every day for 10 consecutive days and had experienced a variety of rides as the water level changed. ''You can paddle on a river 10 different times and each time will be different,'' he said.
 He had so much fun one evening, he added, that he paddled late into the night, navigating by the glow of city lights. (Kayakers typically run these rapids over and over again, carrying the kayak the mile back to the start, or paddling back in shallow water near the bank.) He had been surprised at how much wildlife he had seen on the river -- birds, beavers, nutria and, of course, fish. One time, he said, ''I had a fish jump up on the skirt of my boat.''
 Mr. Isenburg, who has paddled rivers in 24 states, doesn't mind the artificiality of his hometown rapids. 
 ''Everybody's first preference would be to have a beautiful, natural whitewater river running through the middle of their town,'' he said. ''But where that does not exist, this is the next best thing.''

NOT-SO-LAZY RIVERS
The Downtown Rough-Water Guide

FROM Virginia to Nevada, here are the best places to shoot the urban rapids:

FORT WORTH -- Class II and III rapids on a mile-long course in the Clear Fork of the Trinity River at Trinity Park, University Drive at Interstate 30 (817-335-2491; www.river-runners.org).

RENO, NEV. -- Eleven drop pools with Class II and III rapids in the Truckee River Park downtown. Several hotel-casinos, including the Atlantis, Eldorado, Reno Hilton, Circus Circus and Harrah's Reno, offer kayaking packages from $74 and up, including a one-night stay from Sunday to Thursday and one kayaking rental (888-448-7366 or www.renolaketahoe.com). The Reno River Festival, with an invitational whitewater rodeo and kayak instruction, will be May 12-15, 2005.

GOLDEN, COLO. -- An 800-foot course with a series of drops and pools for different experience levels at the Clear Creek Whitewater Park on the west end of 10th Street, plus six additional drops downstream behind City Hall. Each year a whitewater festival is held in late spring (303-384-8127; ci.golden.co.us).

GREEN RIVER, WYO. -- Whitewater Park featuring rapids with names like Castle Falls, Powell's Plunge and the Executioner. Put-in is at Expedition Island, where John Wesley Powell began his historic expedition on the Green and Colorado Rivers. The Powell Plunge River Festival is held annually in August (307-875-5711; www.grchamber.com).

RICHMOND, VA. -- Natural whitewater, with a drop of more than 100 feet over seven miles of the James River in the city and rapids reaching Class IV. The James River Park System has 550 acres of shoreline and islands (804-646-8911; www.jamesriverpark.org). Richmond Raft Company has rafting for both beginners and experienced rafters. (800-222-7238; www.richmondraft.com). KATHRYN JONES


GRAPHIC: Photos: DUNK -- A kayaker negotiates a double-chute rapid on a once-placid river in Fort Worth. (Photo by Dan Malone for The New York Times)(pg. F9)
 MEAN CHUTES -- Fort Worth has created rapids on the Trinity River. (Photo by Dan Malone for The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (89%); BOATING & RAFTING (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (84%); WATER SPORTS (78%); WATER PARKS (78%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); SURFING (78%); EXTREME SPORTS (72%); SKIING (71%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); FLOOD CONTROL (64%) Kayaks; Urban Areas

PERSON: Kathryn Jones

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (91%); RENO, NV, USA (90%); DALLAS, TX, USA (69%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (50%) TEXAS, USA (91%); NEVADA, USA (90%); WYOMING, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%) Fort Worth (Tex); Trinity River (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



172 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: Anthrax Inquiry Draws Criticism From Federal Judge

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
A federal judge who reviewed a classified update on the F.B.I. investigation of anthrax-laced letters that killed five people in 2001 said on Thursday that he saw little chance of the case's being solved in the next six months.
 Judge Reggie B. Walton of United States District Court, who is handling a lawsuit filed against the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Justice Department by a former Army bioweapons expert, Dr. 
Steven J. Hatfill, was given a secret report on Monday on the anthrax investigation. ''Candidly, from my review of the classified information, it doesn't seem to me that anything is going to happen in the near future that's going to change the status quo,'' the judge said. 
 Elizabeth J. Shapiro, a lawyer in the civil division of the Justice Department, did not dispute the judge's conclusion but emphasized the difficulty of finding the person or people responsible for the attacks.
 ''This is perhaps the most extraordinary investigation the F.B.I. has ever engaged in, and the most complex,'' Ms. Shapiro said.
 The exchange took place at a hearing on the government's effort to postpone Dr. Hatfill's lawsuit, which claims that illegal leaks from F.B.I. and Justice Department officials to the news media destroyed his reputation and left him unemployable.
 Dr. Hatfill has been named as a ''person of interest'' in the anthrax case.
 Raising his voice, Judge Walton said: ''If you don't have enough information to indict this man, it's wrong to drag his name again and again through the mud. That's not a government I want to be part of.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTHRAX (92%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); JUDGES (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LIBEL & SLANDER (75%); INDICTMENTS (73%); TERRORISM (73%) Anthrax; Postal Service; Suits and Litigation; Libel and Slander; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Terrorism; Anthrax

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%) Federal Bureau of Investigation; Justice Department

PERSON: Scott Shane; Reggie B (Judge) Walton; Steven J (Dr) Hatfill

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



173 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Airline Workers See Their Security Quickly Vanish

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
As if times were not troubled enough in the airline industry, employees at US Airways, Delta and United are facing the stark realization that the security they hoped their jobs would provide is being quickly taken away. 
 Over the last week, US Airways and Delta employees have learned that they will not have company-paid health care benefits when they retire. Those airlines are also reducing vacation and sick time, and eliminating or curbing contributions to their pension plans. United has said it may terminate its pension plans as it tries to emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. 
 Pay levels are also under attack. Yesterday, US Airways asked a bankruptcy court judge in Alexandria, Va., to impose pay cuts of 23 percent and other benefit reductions on members of unions that had not negotiated concessions. [Page C 2.]
 On Monday, the airline said that the pay of executives, managers and administrative staff members would be cut 5 percent to 10 percent. People in comparable jobs at Delta, which is trying to avoid its own Chapter 11 filing, learned on Sept. 28 that they would have 10 percent pay cuts.
 The attack on compensation is a psychological blow to both blue-and white-collar employees at companies once thought to offer attractive jobs. And experts said other airlines could be forced to make similar cuts to avoid being at a cost disadvantage, even if their financial situations were not as dire.
 ''This is the new world order of airline economics, and there isn't a pilot who isn't shaken up by it," said Jack Stephan, a US Airways captain and the spokesman for the pilots' union there.
 ''We're seeing the shredding of the social contract,'' added David L. Gregory, professor of labor law at St. John's University in Queens. The latest moves are just ''previews of coming attractions,'' he said.
 Even so, the cuts strike some as a delayed reaction to financial problems that have swept the industry since 2000. In that time, the airlines collectively lost $30 billion and are expected to lose nearly $5 billion this year -- battered by high jet fuel costs and the inability to raise ticket prices resulting in part from competition with low-fare carriers.
 ''It's amazing that it has taken this long to catch up,'' said Paul Fronstin, a spokesman for the Employee Benefit Research Institute in Washington, a nonprofit organization that studies compensation levels.
 For example, some 23 percent of the nation's biggest companies have reduced or eliminated health care benefits for future retirees over the last two years, Mr. Fronstin said, while a wide variety of companies are cutting their pension contributions or replacing traditional plans with 401(k) programs.
 ''What's happening with the airlines has already been happening to a lot of industries,'' Mr. Fronstin said.
 Even so, the swiftness of the latest cutbacks has caught many airline employees unaware. And they prove that the first cut was not the deepest.
 United, which filed for bankruptcy protection in December 2002, did not touch the structure of its pension plans last year when it obtained an initial round of concessions worth $2.5 billion annually.
 Likewise, US Airways left retirement health care intact during its first bankruptcy, which it emerged from in April 2003.
 American, the largest airline, did not attack any specific benefits in 2003, when it asked its unions for $1.8 billion a year in cuts. A spokesman, Tim Wagner, said the company gave each union a cost-cutting goal but left it up to them to propose how the reductions should be achieved.
 American has no plans to mimic the benefit reductions being applied by its competitors. But, Mr. Wagner said, ''Obviously, we have to watch what happens in the industry.''
 That is also the case at Southwest, the sixth-largest carrier and the largest among the low-fare airlines. Its chief executive, Gary C. Kelly, said this week that the airline, which has remained profitable despite its competitors' troubles, could afford its labor contracts and employee benefits as long as costs remained low and productivity high.
 ''We've never tried to live off low wages and poor benefits,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''That's not what Southwest is about.'' 
 But he added, ''If, after those airlines get through the bankruptcy process and make their changes, and we find ourselves higher with our cost structure, then yes, we have to look at that and see what adjustments we have to make.''
 Despite the speed with which the latest cuts in pay and benefits have fallen into place, Mr. Kelly sees them as the result of airlines' inability to adjust their cost structures to the changing airline market, in which low-fare operators like his own have quintupled their market share over the last decade.
 That period coincided with some of the richest union contracts in the industry's history, and the protection in those agreements is now being eroded.
 Mr. Stephan of the pilots' union at US Airways acknowledged that the cuts had led some union members to wonder what safeguards organized labor could offer, if gains were simply and abruptly taken away in bankruptcy.
 But without the union's protection, ''we would be lambs before the slaughter,'' Mr. Stephan said. 
 Professor Gregory said he sympathized. ''People worked for these benefits for decades, but they are being eviscerated wholesale,'' he said. ''Their lives are being ruined.''
 Yet others point out that JetBlue, one of the fastest-growing low-fare carriers, does not have unions. It pays employees less than at other carriers and does not have a traditional pension plan, only a 401(k) program. 
 But it has been profitable since its inception in 2000, resulting in annual profit-sharing payments of 17 percent last year, and JetBlue has roughly 50 applicants for every employee it hires. Vincent Stabile, the airline's vice president for human resources, said, ''There's a new normal, and that new normal is an ever-evolving new normal.''
 Indeed, at US Airways and other carriers, some experts maintain that jobs like reservations and airline ticket-counter agents can no longer be looked upon as providing careers, particularly as technology evolves to make such positions less necessary.
 ''There are very few careers left in our economy,'' Professor Gregory said. ''The message is that you have to be prepared to have many jobs, and many careers.''
 Mr. Stephan said he was dismayed by that attitude. ''Do you want airlines that are expendable -- like a toaster?'' he asked. ''You throw them away once they get expensive and start all over again?'' 
 Yet Mr. Kelly of Southwest said the pain of lost benefits at the traditional airlines was inevitable as the companies readjusted to a market where the luxury product they once offered was gone.
 ''Nobody likes to contemplate radical change,'' he said. ''It is much easier to contemplate incremental change,'' like the struggling airlines made in their first cost-cutting efforts. 
 ''It takes some sense of urgency, like imminent demise, to institute some of these changes,'' Mr. Kelly said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Airport check-in counter agents in Charlotte, N.C. Experts ask if such jobs can now be considered careers. (Photo by David T. Foster/Charlotte Observer via Associated Press)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); US 401K PLANS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (73%); JET FUEL (73%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (73%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); SICK LEAVE (56%) Airlines and Airplanes; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining); Fringe Benefits; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (97%)

ORGANIZATION: Delta Air Lines ; United Airlines; US Airways

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (97%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (97%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



174 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Borrowing Declines For First Time in Nine Months

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Borrowing by consumers unexpectedly fell in August, the first decline in nine months, the Federal Reserve reported yesterday, evidence that Americans may be wary of piling on debt until the job market shows more signs of improving.
 The Labor Department reported that initial claims for unemployment benefits fell by 37,000 last week, to a one-month low of 335,000. 
The numbers, unlike those in previous weeks, probably were not affected by hurricane-related disruptions, a departmental spokesman said. 
 The number of people continuing to collect state jobless benefits dropped to 2.864 million in the week ended Sept. 25, from 2.865 million the week before. The four-week moving average fell to 2.868 million -- the lowest since the week ended June 2, 2001 -- from 2.874 million. 
 The $2.4 billion decline in outstanding credit through charge cards and installment loans came after a gain of $11.2 billion in July. The decline left the total of nonmortgage debt at $2.04 trillion.
 The reduction in borrowing coincided with a pause in consumer spending during August after the biggest jump in almost two years.
 Measured at an annual rate, consumer credit fell 1.4 percent in August, compared with a gain of 6.6 percent in July. Consumer credit last fell in November.
 Revolving credit, which includes credit cards, fell by $3.3 billion in August, the biggest decline since April, after rising by $5.5 billion in July. Nonrevolving credit, which includes auto loans and mobile home loans, rose by $936 million in August after rising by $5.7 billion in July. The Fed's monthly report does not track loans secured by real estate, like home equity lines of credit.
 Total consumer spending was unchanged in August after rising 1.1 percent in July, according to statistics from the Commerce Department.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); HURRICANES (71%); EMPLOYMENT (71%) United States Economy; Consumer Credit ; Credit; Labor; Unemployment; Unemployment Insurance

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



175 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Long-Awaited Step for Turkey

 BODY:
After 45 years, the wait is almost over. In 1959, the government of Turkey first sought an association agreement with the European Economic Community, the predecessor of the European Union. This week, the European Commission, the union's executive body, announced that Turkey had met the bloc's political criteria to begin formal entry talks. Now it is up to Europe's leaders, who will meet in December, to endorse the commission's findings and set a date for starting negotiations. 
 If the leaders balk, they will squander a historic opportunity. By embracing Turkey, Europe has the chance to prove that international human rights -- the essence of the union's membership criteria and the focus of numerous reforms in Turkey over the past few years -- are central to what it means to be European, not ethnicity or religion. 
 Turkey's role in Europe's destiny has never been more important. A NATO member since 1952, Turkey provided crucial protection throughout the cold war for Europe's eastern flank. After the cold war, Europe had the luxury, for a time, of imagining that it could move into the future as a federation organized around a few large core states. Then came the new age of international terrorism by Islamic extremists, which has threatened not only the continent's safety but also the bedrock values of Europe. 
 Turkey, a predominantly Muslim nation that has a secular democracy, is uniquely qualified to confront this challenge. Situated on the landmass linking Europe and Asia, it has military experience as the bulwark against threats from the East, diplomatic experience as the bridge between East and West, and religious and ethnic ties to Europe, the Middle East and Central Asia.
 Most important of all, Turkey is proof that Islam and democracy can be compatible. Its example -- made all the more formidable by its ever closer association with the European Union -- is a far stronger challenge to Middle Eastern autocrats than the United States's current misadventure in Iraq. Turkey's successful integration into the European Union would demonstrate to the rest of the world that Muslims and Westerners, bound by common principles, can live and work together for the benefit of both. 
 There are sizable practical risks. Turkey is poor and populous, raising European concerns about Turkish migration across the continent and the cost of subsidizing Turkish membership. Turkey also has a history of military coups, human rights violations and economic crises. It has enacted reforms, but more are needed. The membership negotiations are expected to take at least 10 years, plenty of time to resolve problems and ensure that real change has come about. 
 More ominous are the political obstacles. Anti-Muslim and anti-immigration forces, notably in Austria, France and the Netherlands, are hostile to Turkish accession. European leaders have no greater challenge over the next decade than converting, or at least neutralizing, that opposition. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); IMMIGRATION (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); ETHNICITY (68%); TERRORISM (65%); COUPS (60%) Editorials; Islam; Freedom and Human Rights

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%) European Union

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); TURKEY (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ASIA (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (79%); AUSTRIA (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Europe; Turkey

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



176 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: Pesticide Persisting Beyond Scheduled Elimination Date

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: WATSONVILLE, Calif. 

 BODY:
Planting time is near in John Steinbeck's old haunts. A fork on the back of a tanker-tractor dips 12 inches down into the soil and emits a gaseous cocktail to kill any fungus or micro-organism that could threaten next spring's strawberries. Mexican workers, wearing antiseptic white suits but no face masks, follow close behind, tamping down the white plastic sheeting that covers the loamy fields. 
 They are fumigating Will Garroutte's strawberry fields with methyl bromide, a pesticide so witheringly effective it is a farmer's dream. But it is not an environmentalist's.
 Methyl bromide is considered more destructive to the protective ozone layer in the stratosphere than some banned chemicals and has been linked to an increased risk of prostate cancer in farm workers. 
 After a decade in which the use of the fumigant decreased by more than 70 percent among developed nations, consumption of methyl bromide is poised to rise next year. That has environmentalists worried.
 Under a treaty known as the Montreal Protocol, the chemical was to be banned for most uses by the end of this year. But local and international politics have allowed methyl bromide to elude elimination the way some stubborn bacteria resist antibiotics. 
 The United States, on behalf of strawberry growers like Mr. Garroutte in California, tomato growers in Florida and other agribusinesses, has already obtained international approval for a 16 percent increase in consumption next year over the nation's reported use in 2003. This has happened through a new process that provides for exemptions from the ban in the case of ''critical uses.'' With approval in hand for the use of 8,942 tons of methyl bromide in 2005, compared with 7,659 tons in 2003, the government is now seeking to add 840 tons to the permissible amount in next year's total.
 Like the United States, other developed countries are now seeking new exemptions from the treaty, and environmentalists fear a domino effect. Although the amount of methyl bromide currently at issue is less than 1 percent of ozone-depleting chemicals, the gas quickly attacks the ozone layer, which scientists say is now beginning to heal itself.
 ''The United States has been the driving force for the protocol up until now,'' said David Doniger, who is policy director of the Climate Center at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group. ''This is the first time the U.S. is driving in reverse.''
 Environmental Protection Agency officials disagree. ''I don't think it's fair to say we're headed in the opposite direction,'' said Jeffrey R. Holmstead, the assistant administrator for air and radiation at the agency. ''We are committed to completing the phase-out, but in a way that allows the temporary continued exemptions for critical uses.'' 
 The Montreal Protocol has eliminated 97 percent of ozone-depleting substances, James L. Connaughton, chairman of the White House's Council on Environmental Quality, said, adding, ''The U.S. has led the way.''
 He added, ''The fact we are now focused on a discussion that deals with one-tenth of one percent of our commitment to reduce is the signature of just how successful this effort has been.'' Rodger Wesson of the California Strawberry Commission in Watsonville said: ''Everybody's agreed we want to have a healthy, protective ozone layer. What's the best way to accomplish that?''
 Technological improvements in gas containment, he says, suggest that some more limited use of methyl bromide at the local level could be possible while still protecting the ozone layer.
 The international community has, in gross terms, made significant progress in phasing out methyl bromide since 1992. That was when the chemical was added, under the Montreal Protocol, to a list of chemicals whose unabated use would thin the ozone layer and thus increase the risk of skin cancer.
 The latest data from the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration show that the rate at which methyl bromide is being eliminated from the atmosphere has slowed by about 50 percent in the last two years, compared with the previous four years. Stephen Montzka, a research scientist with NOAA, said that he could not determine from his data whether manmade emissions or a natural occurence, like a bad fire season, account for the change.
 This summer, after the United States's request for exemptions, other countries including Israel, New Zealand and Germany applied for the right to use more of the chemical that they had been learning to do without.
 Jiri Hlavacek, the Czech Republic's representative to the Montreal Protocol meetings, is perplexed and dismayed by the sudden thirst for the chemical.
 ''Why is it such big countries and economically strong countries like the United States,'' he said, ''are not able to speed up the process of seeking alternatives for these plants and for the treatment of the soil?'' 
 Requests for 2006 exemptions, led by the United States, Italy and Spain, already exceed the amounts granted for 2005, Mr. Hlavacek said.
 Mr. Garroutte, a second-generation Watsonville farmer who is 59, finds economic pressure in all directions. To keep his profit margins up, he must lease more land each year. By law, he leaves a buffer between his fumigated fields and schools. 
 He believes that methyl bromide has increased his production by as much 30 percent. ''You can say whatever you want about whether methyl bromide is good or bad,'' he said. ''But we have to be profitable.''
 Still, Mr. Garroutte says he understands the need for methyl bromide replacements. ''The most important thing is to get alternatives on a greased track and get them here.'' 
 Mr. Wesson of the strawberry commission also expresses frustration that there are not enough new compounds to try. The federal Department of Agriculture has spent $150 million over a decade on the development of alternatives, but the only one that has taken any hold in the Watsonville area is organic farming, which has a fierce proponent in Vanessa Bogenholm. More than a decade ago, when she was working in the University of California's agricultural extension office, her original assignment was testing methyl bromide alternatives. 
 Her primary strategy is a complicated interseasonal rotation of strawberries, barley, lettuce and other crops, which gives her peak production ranging from 70 percent to 90 percent of a nonorganic farmer's. To compensate, she can command a higher price among customers, including farmers' markets and chains like Whole Foods. 
 Besides, she said, she will not expose her workers to a chemical associated with cancer risk. A study published last year in a medical journal, based on a study of 55,000 farm workers, showed that those exposed to methyl bromide were two to four times more likely to develop prostate cancer than their peers. 
 In a recent interview, two men who have spent a decade behind methyl bromide applications, complained of persistent dizziness, headaches, blurred vision and memory impairments. They reported that they were frequently instructed to remove the protective plastic from the fields long before the required waiting period had elapsed and the chemical had dispersed. 
 ''My eyes watered, I couldn't breathe,'' said one of the men, Jorge Fernandez, as a lawyer translated. ''I felt dizzy, like I was going to faint.'' Complaints to his boss, who worked for a local applicator company that Mr. Fernandez did not identify, provoked mocking responses that questioned his manhood, he said.
 Mr. Wesson, of the strawberry commission, said: ''The materials we use for agriculture have to be respected. If they are not handled properly or by people with the right protective equipment, we have problems.'' He said, he does not believe a complete elimination of the fumigant will ever be necessary. ''Maybe it gets to some other low percentage,'' while technological improvements protect the ozone layer.
 This attitude, Mr. Doniger feels, could spread beyond the United States to other developed nations. ''There are individual countries who say: Hey, if America has its hand in the cupboard, we'll stick our hands in, too,'' he said.
 Mr. Holmstead of the E.P.A. said: ''We are committed to the protocol. But the coverage of methyl bromide was contingent on critical use exemptions.'' With the advent of new alternatives and application techniques, he said, ''we are quite confident that the phase-out will continue and be successful.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 11, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 8 about methyl bromide, a pesticide that has raised concern among environmentalists, misspelled the surname of the president of the California Strawberry Commission, who said technological improvements suggest that some limited use of the chemical could be possible while still protecting the ozone layer. He is Rodger Wasson, not Wesson. (The error was pointed out in a telephone message shortly after the article appeared. This correction was delayed by a reporting oversight.)


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ruiz Abendo seals the edge of a fumigation tarp with soil on Will Garroutte's strawberry fields as a crew injects a methyl bromide mix. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PESTICIDES (91%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); STRAWBERRY FARMING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CHEMICALS & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (88%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); CLIMATOLOGY (84%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); OZONE DEPLETION (75%); FARM LABOR (74%); AIR QUALITY (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (72%); BACTERIA (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (70%); APPROVALS (70%); PROSTATE DISEASE (70%); PROSTATE CANCER (69%); CANCER (68%); PRODUCT RECALLS (66%); ANTIBIOTICS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (50%) Weather; Pesticides; Methyl Bromide; Recalls and Bans of Products; Global Warming; Weather

PERSON: Felicity Barringer

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



177 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: Sargent's Portraits of Children, in All Their Squirming, Regal Glory

BYLINE: By GRACE GLUECK

 BODY:
Think of John Singer Sargent (1856-1924), and you think of dashing society portraits of elegant matrons in fashionable gowns, adorned by lustrous jewels, exuding high-born privilege and entitlement. These swans were Sargent's livelihood for much of his career, and his bravura brushwork and sense of style gave even the dimmest of them an appeal that might or might not have existed off canvas.
 But Sargent painted other subjects, too, not least among them children. And in these portraits, although mostly of upper-class offspring, he tended to get real. In his best work he seemed to see his young subjects as distinctive individuals rather than the syrupy stereotypes portrayed by his Victorian and 18th-century predecessors.
 True, he was most comfortable with children he knew, like the fractious Homer Saint-Gaudens in his ''Portrait of a Boy (Homer Saint-Gaudens and His Mother)'' of 1890. In it he depicts Homer, the all-too-human 10-year-old son of his friend the sculptor Augustus Saint-Gaudens, hyperactively straddling the corner of a chair, tense, fidgety and obviously bored to death, as his mother reads aloud to calm him down. 
 (The young Saint-Gaudens grew up to become a reporter, an art critic, a writer, an actor, a stage designer, a lecturer on the arts and for 28 years, director of the Carnegie Institute in Pittsburgh. He recalled in later life that as a boy, he ''had no respect whatsoever and scant liking for John Singer Sargent,'' who during the course of 10 posing sessions, he said, had tried to modify his behavior by repeatedly sitting on him.)
 Sargent's views of Homer and other children -- on canvas and off -- are the meat of ''Great Expectations: John Singer Sargent Painting Children,'' an exhibition of some 40 works that opens today at the Brooklyn Museum. Organized by Barbara Dayer Gallati, its curator of American art, the show takes its title from the Dickens novel, which traces a boy's progression from childhood to maturity.
 Of interest is that Brooklyn owns a superb collection of Sargent watercolors, bought as early as 1909, and that Sargent himself developed strong ties to the museum, making frequent visits and giving advice on acquisitions to A. Augustus Healy, who from 1895 to 1920 was president of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences, the museum's forerunner.
 The exhibition has large ambitions, among them to explore how Sargent's paintings ''satisfied or contradicted'' the changing notions of childhood that came into play at the end of the 19th century, when children began to be regarded as distinctive personalities, taking in the world on their own terms while relating to adult society's values, economic conditions and particular environments.
 In ''Dorothy'' (1900), a portrait of the very young daughter of George Millar Williamson, a wealthy art and rare-book collector in Sparkill, N.Y., the 2- or 3-year-old is infantilized by a demure white dress with ruffled collar and sleeves, a too-large bonnet plunked on her head. Her dress is very much in the style of an upper-class child of the period.
 Yet, seated straight up in a large chair against a background of restrained red, she looks more like a grande dame than a cuddly toddler as she stares with grumpy intensity at the viewer, one hand regally draped over the chair arm. Sargent has made her a personage, no longer a Victorian paragon of childhood sweetness.
 With renditions like this, the show argues, he helped raise the marginal status previously given children's likenesses to a much higher rung in the hierarchy of artistic subjects, more reflective of the changed outlook on childhood that emerged at the end of the 19th century.
 On the other hand, in Sargent's least interesting endeavors, his subjects come off more or less tailored to suit family taste, as in his sumptuous extravaganza ''Lady Warwick and Her Son'' (1905). Apparently conceived to tie in with the noble Greville family's dynastic tradition of portraits, it is almost a parody of the Grand Manner style perfected by Sir Joshua Reynolds, Thomas Gainsborough and company.
 Against a tasteful estate background of forest and open sky, Lady Warwick is portrayed in an elaborate gown with a train, one arm around her small son, Maynard, as he sits on a marble column base. The too-pretty little boy, his hair a mass of curls, is dressed in a frilly white shirt and black tights. He leans toward his protective mother, toying with the rope of pearls draped over her shelflike bosom. Interestingly, Lady Warwick herself, while to the manner born, was a thoroughly modern, politically engaged woman, a Socialist who worked for child welfare and the reform of prisons and secondary education.
 Compare the chillingly stylized portrait mentioned above with the engaging intimacy of a much earlier Sargent canvas, ''The Birthday Party'' (circa 1885), depicting Sargent's friend the painter Albert Besnard, his wife, Charlotte, a sculptor, and their small son Robert as they celebrate the boy's birthday around a table that holds a cake with lighted candles.
 The boy's happy face is emphasized in the glow of the cake, presented by his comfortably matronly mother as she sits at the table in a festive red gown. She is strikingly half-silhouetted against the dark figure of the father, a less distinctive presence hovering behind her.
 Despite his lifelong bachelorhood, Sargent was by no means indifferent to family values, to use a now-corrupted phrase, and this informal painting -- seeming to invite the presence at the table of the painter himself -- suggests the warm relationship the parents shared with their eldest son. (He died in World War I, as did several other subjects depicted in this show.)
 Although Sargent, trained at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts in Paris and in the atelier of the French academician Carolus-Duran, remained a traditional painter despite the rising tide of Impressionism, he was not unaffected by it, as the show reveals. The Besnard family, with its Vuillard-style compositional intimacy, is one example; another is the endearing ''Ruth Sears Bacon'' (1887), in which a very young, sweet-faced girl with a doll is shown nestled in the depths of an almost abstract chair conjured up by impassioned, Impressionist-style brushstrokes.
 Sargent was not known as a great psychological explorer, although one of his most famous paintings of children, ''The Daughters of Edward Darley Boit'' (1882), seems in hindsight to hint at trouble. In an unusual compositional device for Sargent, the four girls are arranged in a dark interior, relatively isolated from one another. Oddly enough, they all had problems of mental or emotional instability in adulthood, a circumstance that makes Sargent's painting seem strangely prophetic. Unfortunately, the portrait, owned by the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, was not available for this exhibition.
 Included here are a number of Italian children used by Sargent as models; several sensitive portraits of his sister Violet, from baby to adult, the earliest done when Sargent was 16; and other famous portraits of family clusters. Among them are the flossy ''Mrs. Carl Meyer and Her Children'' (1886), wife and offspring of a London banker; and ''Essie, Ruby and Ferdinand, Children of Asher Wertheimer'' (1902), part of the brood of a well-known London art dealer. 
 Perhaps to bulk out the show, several rather slight souvenirs of Sargent's travels in Europe are also on view, among them ''Tyrolese Crucifix'' (1915), a weak painting that is apparently relevant because it shows children huddled on a staircase, as their father prepares to mount a crucifix on the wall of their house.
 But altogether the exhibition, said to be the first to bring together Sargent's influential portraits of children, is an important and interesting contribution. It is buttressed by an insightful catalog, with essays by Ms. Gallati; Richard Ormond, Sargent's great-nephew and director of the John Singer Sargent Catalogue Raisonne Project; and Erica E. Hirshler, senior curator of paintings in the art of the Americas department at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. The beauty part is that the children in the show make no noise whatever.

Great Expectations
Brooklyn Museum

''Great Expectations: John Singer Sargent Painting Children'' is at the Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, through Jan. 16.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Ruth Sears Bacon,'' left, and ''The Birthday Party,'' two of the works in ''Great Expectations: John Singer Sargent Painting Children,'' at the Brooklyn Museum. (Photo by The Minneapolis Institute of Arts)
 (Photo by Wadsworth Antheneum) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EXHIBITIONS (85%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); SCULPTURE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); WRITERS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Brooklyn Museum

PERSON: Grace Glueck; John Singer (1856-1925) Sargent

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (67%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%); MINNESOTA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



178 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: After 17 Years on Death Row, Texas Inmate Walks Free

BYLINE: By MAUREEN BALLEZA

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
On Aug. 4, 1987, Ernest Ray Willis was sentenced to death. On Wednesday afternoon, he stepped out of prison a free man and into the arms of his wife, Verilyn, touching her for the first time, on their fourth wedding anniversary. 
 ''It's great to be free,'' Mr. Willis said at a news conference Thursday morning, flanked by his wife and lawyers. ''I can't even describe my emotions. It was the most wonderful day of my life.'' 
 His time on death row, 17 years, is believed to be the longest of the eight death row inmates who have been exonerated in Texas since executions resumed here in 1982. Since that year, the state has executed 328 inmates, the most recent on Wednesday, hours after Mr. Willis's release.
 Mr. Willis met his wife through one of those executed inmates, Ricky McGinn, who was her brother. Mr. McGinn was executed in 2000 following his conviction on rape and murder charges.
 In 1986, Mr. Willis, unemployed and with chronic back problems, was living with a cousin in a small West Texas town when a fire engulfed the home. The men survived but Elizabeth Belue and Gail Allison, who were also living there, were killed. 
 Investigators said the fire had been caused by arson and Mr. Willis was convicted of capital murder.
 In 2000, Judge M. Brock Jones Jr., who presided over the trial, held a hearing that determined that Mr. Willis had been given powerful antipsychotic drugs while in jail that rendered him impassive at trial, a condition the prosecutor drew attention to in painting him as a remorseless killer.
 The judge also found that Mr. Willis had received ineffective counsel from a lawyer who was trying his first capital case and who spent less than three hours with him before the trial. The hearing also found that a psychological report concluding that Mr. Willis was not dangerous, a condition required for the death penalty, had never been given to the defense. 
 Judge Brock recommended that the conviction be set aside, but the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals refused to do so. Mr. Willis pursued his case, and in August Judge Royal Furgeson of Federal District Court in the Western District of Texas ordered the state to retry Mr. Willis by Nov. 18 or set him free. 
 Ori White, the district attorney for the 112th District in Pecos County, then determined that ''the facts in this case exonerate Mr. Willis.''
 J.W. Johnson, the original prosecutor, was unavailable for comment on Thursday. 
 Mr. Willis said that he might speak out on the death penalty but that for now he just wanted to live his life. 
 ''There's so much catching up to do,'' he said, ''but we're going to catch it up a day at a time, hour by hour, minute by minute.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ernest Ray Willis and his wife, Verilyn, at a news conference yesterday. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (94%); MURDER (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CAPITAL CRIMES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); JUDGES (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (73%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); ARSON (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (52%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Capital Punishment; Murders and Attempted Murders

PERSON: Maureen Balleza; Ernest Willis

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (56%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Texas

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



179 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Escapes; HAVENS: LIVING HERE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Houses Near National Forests: Seeing the Trees Can Be Enough

BYLINE: As told to Seth Kugel

 BODY:

WHO -- Don Nelms, 58, retired auto dealer and chairman of Audubon Arkansas, with his wife Millie, 57
WHAT -- 3-bedroom house
WHERE -- Jasper, Ark.
 About three years ago I sold our business, and I decided I was interested in photography. I came up to the Buffalo River area, took a video photographer with me and hiked every day just photographing the leaves and the rivers and whatever we could find. And I really fell in love with the area. My wife and I decided we wanted a place up here. 
 About 60-plus percent of the land in Newton County is owned by the federal government. There are game refuges, the land along the Buffalo River owned by the national parks and then of course the Ozark National Forest. The national forest has all kinds of land: creeks and rivers and mountains. 
 Mostly we will go find interesting elements, a waterfall or a hollow that someone has said is pretty. People tell me all the time, well, gosh, you ought to go to this place or you ought to go to that place. You just go and photograph them, look at them, just be there really.
 Fayetteville (where we're from) is in one of the fastest-growing areas in the U.S. And so you get traffic and continual building and just a very vibrant economy. Jasper is about the same size that it's always been; 495 is the population that's posted as you drive into town. It really is more like the Untied States in the 50's. People are not in a big hurry.
 There are a lot of creeks and rivers that are very spectacularly beautiful. It's not like the West; this place is just covered with trees. Often, there are no roads or trails. It's wilderness, and you have to hike in there to see things. As told to Seth Kugel

ON THE MARKET
Information was provided by owners and listing companies.

WHERE -- Alta Sierra, Calif.
WHAT -- 3-bedroom house and 1-room cabin
HOW MUCH -- $349,000
The 1,000-square-foot one-bathroom house and the cabin are on nearly an acre bordering the Sequoia National Forest. The cabin, which has water and electricity but no bathroom, is on a separate lot packaged with the house. The property is three miles from the Shirley Meadows Ski Resort and is accessible year-round. It's about three hours from Los Angeles in the Lake Isabella area, which has biking, hiking, hunting and boating. Agent and owner: Jim Antrim (760) 376-3307; Century 21 Lake Isabella, www.century21lakeisabella.com.

WHERE -- Aragon, N.M.
WHAT -- 1-bedroom cabin
HOW MUCH -- $699,000
This 700-square-foot adobe cabin is on 535 acres in the Apache-Sitgreaves National Forests, home to the White Mountains and 680 miles of rivers. It has one bathroom but does not have electricity and is lighted with kerosene lamps. The property also has a wood corral, and there is an airstrip. The area has elk hunting, and the property comes with elk-hunting licenses. For sale by the owner, Linda Hatfield, (970) 264-0453.

WHERE -- Rosman, N.C.
WHAT -- 1-bedroom lodge
HOW MUCH -- $164,500
Just under 1,000 square feet, this cabin was built with one open great room used as a bunkroom, with a kitchen at one end, a loft, a bathroom and a porch with views of the Blue Ridge Mountain. It is on 10 acres that come within about 30 feet of the Pisgah National Forest. Twenty-nine adjoining acres that border the forest are also for sale by a different owner. The house is about 45 minutes from Asheville and even closer to the regional airport. Broker: Janet Wickell, Brevard Realty Team, (866) 383-5500; www.brevardteam.com.

WHERE -- Rhododendron, Ore.
WHAT -- 3-bedroom house
HOW MUCH -- $997,500
This 3,080-square-foot home, about a mile outside the Mount Hood National Forest, is close to the confluence of the Sandy and Zig Zag Rivers. It has slate and cedar decking, a sunroom-studio with a wall of windows on the Sandy River, a six-person sauna, an outdoor hot tub off the master bedroom and three bathrooms. It is near a 27-hole golf course and 15 minutes from the Mount Hood ski area, which has skiing year-round. Broker: Kylie Milne, Merit Properties, (503) 622-3141; www.mthoodforsale.com.

WHERE -- Tidioute, Pa.
WHAT -- 3-bedroom house
HOW MUCH -- $196,000
This house has 240 feet of Allegheny River frontage and is about a quarter mile from the 513,000-acre Allegheny National Forest. The 1,555-square-foot house has a deck, a sunroom, hardwood floors and two bathrooms. The Allegheny River is popular with canoeists and fishermen; Tidioute, home of the Pennsylvania State Fishing Tournament, is about 120 miles from both Pittsburgh and Buffalo. Agent: John McGarry, Coldwell Banker Phil Mathyer Real Estate, (814) 726-3456; www.northwestpahomes.com.

WHERE -- Saratoga, Wyo.
WHAT -- 4-bedroom house with four 1-bedroom guest cabins
HOW MUCH -- $2.75 million
This property in a private canyon bordering the Medicine Bow National Forest and at the base of the Sierra Madre used to be a dude ranch but in recent years has been used as a private estate. It is on 640 acres, and in addition to two new one-bedroom, one-bathroom guesthouses, it also has a log barn, corrals, a trout stream and four fishing ponds. The main house has two bathrooms. Broker: James Rinehart, Western United Realty, (307) 745-6024; www.ranchbrokers.com.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Aaron Skinner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTS & WOODLANDS (93%); RIVERS (90%); HIKING (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); SKIING (68%) Housing; Forests and Forestry

PERSON: Don Nelms; Seth Kugel

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Ozark National Forest (Ark); jasper (ark)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



180 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Canada's Dollar Is Up a Lot. That's Also the Bad News.

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: BROCKVILLE, Ontario, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
With the Canadian dollar hovering at an 11-year high against its United States counterpart, Roger Galvin is already thinking about heading south to avoid at least some of Canada's unrelenting winter. But when it comes to his restaurant just across the St. Lawrence River from upstate New York, he sees the Canadian currency's new vigor in a far less positive light.
 ''When the American dollar was high and the Canadian dollar was low, it was definitely a benefit,'' said Mr. Galvin. His Brockberry Cafe, like many businesses in the Thousand Islands area, relies on tourist traffic from the United States. 
 But Mr. Galvin and other local businessmen said that the Canadian dollar's 23 percent rise against the American dollar in the last 18 months meant that fewer of those visitors crossed the border this summer. 
 ''In a town the size of Brockville, any change in revenue from tourism is going to make a major impact,'' Mr. Galvin said.
 After it most recently bottomed out at 62 cents in January 2002, the Canadian loonie -- as the currency is known because of the loon on the back of the dollar coin -- has been pushing the 80-cent threshold in United States currency for the past week.
 [The loonie closed at 79.42 cents Thursday after rising to 79.77 earlier.]
 While a stronger Canadian dollar benefits people and companies here by lowering the cost of imports and foreign travel, the loonie's rise is causing mostly anxiety in a country heavily dependent on exports. The Bank of Canada said Thursday that the currency situation posed a risk to growth, Bloomberg News reported. 
 Memories are still fresh of the Canadian dollar's last run-up against the United States dollar. When the loonie peaked at just over 89 cents in late 1991, it caused a wave of factory closings, weakened tourism and shuttered stores in border towns as Canadians flocked to the United States to shop.
 While crossing the 80-cent threshold is unlikely to recreate that situation immediately, many economists expect it to force some changes.
 ''The majority of companies realized that when the loonie was below 75 cents, that wasn't sustainable. So most companies have a cost structure that is competitive at 80 cents,'' said Jayson Myers, chief economist for Canadian Manufacturers and Exporters, an industry group based in Ottawa. 
 ''But now its value is setting off some alarm bells,'' he added. ''Companies have to start looking beyond the 80-cent mark to 88 or even 90 cents.''
 Because Canada is a net energy exporter, the surge in oil prices this year has been cited as one reason for the loonie's ascent. Strong prices for Canadian minerals and other natural resources are also frequently mentioned, along with a recent interest rate increase by the Bank of Canada and sustained economic growth.
 But Craig Wright, chief economist for the Royal Bank of Canada, is one of many analysts who contend that those factors are not the real engine behind the loonie's ascent. ''All too often in Canada we think of the Canadian dollar's strength as being made in Canada,'' he said, ''but this is mostly a U.S. dollar story.''
 Mr. Wright and others contend that the change reflects weakening of the American dollar more than strengthening of the Canadian dollar. The loonie, he noted, has appreciated relatively little against other foreign currencies; those other currencies -- particularly the euro -- have surged 40 percent to 55 percent against the United States dollar in the same period, making the loonie's flight seem almost anemic.
 ''Canada has gotten off relatively easy,'' Mr. Wright said.
 Unlike the late 1980's and early 1990's, Canadian exports of manufactured goods -- a segment heavily weighted toward the automobile industry -- have continued to grow this year despite the Canadian dollar's rise.
 ''I have been quite surprised about how limited the impact of the dollar appreciation has been on exports to date,'' said Andrew Jackson, an economist with the Canadian Labour Congress, a trade union group.
 To Mr. Jackson, that development may indicate that many Canadian companies have carved out niche markets in the United States where they face relatively little competition. ''American and Canadian manufacturers may not compete head to head as often thought,'' he said. 
 But Mr. Myers, from the manufacturers' association, said that while growth in the United States economy has helped Canadian exporters, companies in the auto parts and technology sectors have not been able to make up for the Canadian dollar's increase by raising the prices of exports that are priced in United States dollars. The expanding American economy has led many United States manufacturers in other sectors to raise their prices, he said. That, in turn, has given some Canadian exporters room for price increases of their own. He noted, however, that the situation was not likely to last.
 While a rising Canadian dollar may squeeze profits of Canadian exporters, Mr. Wright said that it might also pressure them to acquire technology to increase efficiency. And because most machine tools and computers used in Canadian plants are priced in United States currency even if not purchased from American suppliers, exporters could acquire the technology at a lower cost.
 ''Now there's a 20-percent-off sale,'' Mr. Wright said. ''Canadian firms seem to be taking advantage of that.''
 That is certainly Mr. Galvin's hope. He still recalls the early 1990's, and fears another round of closings at the mostly foreign-owned, exported-oriented factories that provide much of Brockville's employment. Computers and machines, however, are unlikely to provide salvation for many parts of the service sector, particularly tourism. 
 Down the riverside highway from Mr. Galvin's restaurant, Frank Friend said that fewer visitors from the United States rented his 10 cabins this summer.
 ''There have been fewer Americans,'' he said. ''Those that come have been scaling down the time they spend here.''
 Like many hotel operators, Mr. Friend is trying to counter the trend by offering American customers a favorable rate on their dollars.
 While a higher Canadian dollar should mean cost savings on imported goods for Canadian retailers, Diane J. Brisebois, chief executive of the Retail Council of Canada, said that most of her members have yet to reap that benefit. Most of the merchandise currently on store shelves, she said, was purchased in March under contracts that included fixed exchange rates. She added, however, that lower prices on imports have prompted some retailers to order extra merchandise for the holiday season.
 Unless the loonie creeps past 90 cents, Ms. Brisebois said, she does not expect Canadians to head south to shop. During the early 1990's, that current was so strong that shopping malls were built or expanded just over the border from Canada to draw Canadian shoppers.
 ''There's a huge difference between the Canadian retail market of the early 90's and the retail market of 2004,'' Ms. Brisebois said.
 Since the previous cross-border shopping wave, the expansion of Wal-Mart and big-box discount chains, many of them based in the United States, has increased price competitiveness and the variety of products in Canada, she said. Although most large retailers have not been as affected by the Canadian dollar's rise as Mr. Galvin's small restaurant, Ms. Brisebois said that, like him, they will be observing its gyrations.
 ''This is definitely something we're keeping an eye on,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: His nation's strong currency gives Roger Galvin, a Canadian restaurateur, buying power in the United States. But it discourages the American tourists his cafe relies on. (Photo by Ian Austen for The New York Times)(pg. W1)
 Frank Friend, owner of Chalet Cabins in Brockville, Ontario, said fewer Americans than usual rented his vacation cabins this summer. (Photo by Ian Austen for The New York Times)(pg. W7)Map of Canada highlighting Brockville: Brockville, Ontario, just north of the border, counts on tourism. (pg. W7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); IMPORT PRICES (64%); PLANT CLOSINGS (62%); MINERAL MARKETS (60%) Currency

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: Ian Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) Canada; Canada

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



181 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: With Oil Prices Up, It Could Be a Long Winter

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Over the summer, rising oil prices meant higher gasoline costs for drivers in the United States. This winter, as crude oil touched $53 a barrel yesterday, they will translate into higher heating bills for households. 
 In New York, crude oil futures hit a record yesterday, closing at $52.67. The contract is up nearly $20 a barrel this year. Heating-oil contracts for November delivery rose one cent, to $1.43 a gallon, the highest since the contract began trading in 1978. 
 The price of heating oil rose after some refineries in the Gulf of Mexico were shut down ahead of Hurricane Ivan, which coincided with a seasonal maintenance period. As a result, heating-oil stocks are lower than a year ago, raising worries about tight supplies this winter.
 ''The market has switched some of its concern from gasoline to heating oil,'' said Craig Pennington, the head of global energy at Schroders. ''It's getting jittery at a time when inventories need to rebuild.''
 Adding to the disruptions in the United States, the main oil workers' union in Nigeria said yesterday that it would join a national strike, set to begin next week, unless the government agreed to talks on rising fuel prices, The Associated Press reported. Nigeria, which produces more than two million barrels a day, is the fifth-largest source of crude for the United States.
 Also, Nigerian oil workers at Royal Dutch/Shell started a surprise two-day strike yesterday to protest job cuts. Shell accounts for about half of Nigeria's daily oil production. 
 Some analysts say crude oil prices could reach $60 a barrel, double last year's prices, if supplies were suddenly interrupted or the winter were very cold. 
 For prices to drop, markets ''need reassurance about Gulf of Mexico production coming back on stream and they need reassurance about Nigeria,'' Mr. Pennington said.
 To make up for lost production in the gulf, the Bush administration has approved five oil loans, totaling 4.7 million barrels, from federal stockpiles. But the government has opposed releasing oil from its Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which it is instead filling to capacity.
 This year, oil prices have been driven up more than 60 percent by the highest demand growth in 25 years. That has stretched production worldwide, leaving little spare capacity to make up for any shortages in oil supplies. 
 Although there have been no major interruptions in supplies, exports from countries like Iraq, Nigeria and Venezuela have been unreliable for more than a year. 
 The latest distraction has been a string of severe hurricanes hitting the Caribbean. Doug Leggate, an oil analyst at Smith Barney, said disruptions caused by Hurricane Ivan, which hit the Florida Panhandle and other gulf areas three weeks ago, ''have been a shock to the market.'' 
 ''This has surprised everyone,'' he said. ''But it's not a demand thing, it's all about the storms.''
 Output in the Gulf of Mexico, which accounts for a quarter of American domestic production, is down a third, or 470,000 barrels a day, according to the federal Minerals Management Service.
 Many traders had underestimated how long it would take to repair damages to some of the 4,000 platforms in the area. As of Wednesday, more than 16.6 million barrels of oil had been lost because of Ivan, or 2.7 percent of the region's yearly output. 
 According to preliminary estimates from the Minerals Management Service, 7 platforms were destroyed by the hurricane and 4 were heavily damaged, and 13 leaks in oil and gas pipelines were reported. It could take up to three months to resume normal operations.
 The impact of rising oil prices on the economy has so far been limited. But with presidential elections next month, the rising costs to Americans could become an election issue.
 Still, rising prices could curb demand in the second half of the year, said Mr. Pennington of Schroders. ''Will we see a demand shock?'' he asked. ''I don't think so. It's going to be a gradual downturn in demand as high prices start to bite.''
 Homeowners in the Northeast, for example, are expected to spend an average $1,223 this winter on heating oil. That is 28 percent, or $270, more than last year, according to the annual winter outlook published by the federal Energy Information Administration.
 In the Midwest, expenditures on propane are expected to increase 22 percent, to $1,396, the information agency said, and natural gas expenditures for household heating are expected to rise 15 percent compared with last year, to about $1,003.
 ''Heating-fuel expenditures per household are expected to rise this winter in all regions of the country, reflecting both higher fuel prices and, in some areas, colder weather than last year,'' the agency, a unit of the Energy Department, said in the report released Wednesday. 
 Last year, heating expenditures were unchanged, mainly because of a mild winter, the agency said. The report provides the government's outlook from October 2004 to March 2005.
 Meanwhile, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said it expected winter temperatures to be colder than normal in the Southeast and mid-Atlantic regions. But for the Midwest and Northeast, the agency said, chances were about even of getting colder, warmer or average temperatures.
 Oil inventories in the United States grew by 1.1 million barrels, to 274 million barrels, in the week ended Oct. 1, the Energy Department said Wednesday. That is 4 percent below levels a year ago.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Curtis Dennis filled up with heating oil yesterday for deliveries in Alexandria, Va. Crude hit $53 a barrel during the day. (Photo by Jay Mallin/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (95%); PRICE INCREASES (93%); HEATING OIL (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); HEATING OIL PRICES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); WEATHER (89%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); FUTURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); STRIKES (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Heating Oil ; International Trade and World Market; Labor; Production; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (82%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (82%); RDSA (AMS) (82%); RDS.B (NYSE) (82%); RDS.A (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (82%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) NIGERIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); IRAQ (79%) Nigeria; Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



182 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: A New Morality Makes Old Deceptions Expensive for Wall Street

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
LYING may be a sin, but on Wall Street there has always been a spirit of understanding for those who merely help others to deceive -- particularly because the fees for aiding in deception have often been far higher than those for simply arranging a straightforward financing.
 But that is changing, and this is a case of today's new morality being applied to yesterday's conduct. 
 In North Carolina yesterday, Parmalat, the bankrupt Italian dairy company, continued its legal onslaught against everyone who helped the former management, filing suit against Bank of America. [Page C4.] 
 Parmalat contended one $80 million loan from Bank of America was not really a loan at all because the company had to deposit $81.6 million in the bank. And, Parmalat said, a secret side agreement obligated it to pay a far higher interest rate than was disclosed. In another deal, the bank is said to have misrepresented a real loan as an equity investment in a Parmalat subsidiary. 
 ''The market was intentionally and falsely led to believe that Bank of America was standing behind Parmalat's creditworthiness, when, in fact, it was doing all it could to reduce its exposure while simultaneously siphoning off as much cash as it could before Parmalat collapsed,'' the suit said.
 Parmalat said the bank made millions from the deals and should pay billions in damages. Bank of America said that the suit ''defies logic and the facts'' and that its transactions were not ''designed to disguise Parmalat's debt.''
 There are other examples of the new morality. American International Group, the big insurer, has disclosed it is facing federal investigations into whether its own disclosures -- regarding an investigation into whether it had helped others to deceive -- were themselves deceptive. Now there's a tangled web.
 In Houston, four former executives of Merrill Lynch are on trial in connection with the infamous Nigerian barge deal. Prosecutors contend Merrill provided phony profits to Enron by disguising a loan as payment for a barge. Two of the executives are also charged with lying to investigators. 
 The change in what is acceptable can be traced to Enron's collapse. There may have once been an unspoken understanding that companies used makeup to appear prettier than they really were, but this was a case of making Frankenstein's monster resemble Marilyn Monroe. It turned out the public, not to mention the prosecutors, did not accept what Wall Street thought was business as usual. 
 All this threatens financial institutions in two ways. They face liability for what they did, and their profits are likely to be lower if they cannot charge fees for performing what is really balance-sheet or tax-return magic.
 The Republican leaders of Congress this week weakened provisions in a tax bill aimed at corporate tax shelters. But the Internal Revenue Service is already getting tougher, and is seeking to force disclosure of who bought some shelters whose evident purpose was to reduce taxes by concealing dubious maneuvers from Uncle Sam.
 It is not only more lenient tax laws that have led corporate income tax receipts, as a percentage of gross domestic product, to fall by more than two-thirds since 1966 while proceeds from individual income taxes are roughly the same as they were then. Now with deficits growing, corporate shelter designers are feeling the heat.
 There is a risk that the real perpetrators -- the Parmalats and Enrons -- may try to get off the hook by blaming those who facilitated the crimes. But Parmalat may be right when it argues that without help from some financial institutions, which surely knew they were helping to deceive even if they had no inkling of the extent of the fraud, the fraud would have ended sooner with smaller losses.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks corporate income tax payments as a share of gross domestic product since the 1970's. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (83%); BONDS (78%); DAMAGES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); LITIGATION (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); INCOME TAX (66%); TAX AUTHORITIES (60%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); CORPORATE TAX (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Credit; Barges and Scows; Suits and Litigation

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); PARMALAT SPA (91%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Enron Corp; Parmalat Spa; Merrill Lynch & Co Inc; Bank of America

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); PLT (BIT) (91%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (91%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (91%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NIGERIA (85%) Nigeria

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



183 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices and Drug Safety Comments Send Shares Lower

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Investors sent stocks markedly lower yesterday as oil prices reached $53 a barrel during the trading session and new questions were raised about the safety of arthritis drugs, putting pressure on pharmaceutical shares. The Dow Jones industrial average, which includes the drug makers Merck, Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson, lost 114.52 points, or 1.12 percent, closing at 10,125.40.
 Broader market indicators also fell. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 11.40 points, or 1 percent, to 1,130.65, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 22.51 points, or 1.14 percent, closing at 1,948.52. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization companies was down 10.06 points, or 1.70 percent, to 582.60. 
 Declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbered those advancing by almost 3 to 1. Preliminary volume eased to 1.45 billion shares from 1.47 billion shares on Wednesday.
 Investors seemed uneasy about drug stocks after The New England Journal of Medicine and The Lancet suggested that stricter regulation was needed. Merck withdrew its drug Vioxx from the market last week after tests found an increased risk of heart attacks and strokes. 
 The New England Journal also published a researcher's letter saying that Celebrex, a Pfizer drug in the same family as Vioxx, might be linked to cardiovascular risks. Shares of Pfizer slumped $1.19, to $29.99; Merck dropped 69 cents, to $30.98; and Johnson & Johnson, a diversified health care products maker, lost $1.83 to close at $55.92.
 Among other drug companies, Eli Lilly slid $1.91 to $59.56, and the American depository receipts of Novartis fell $1.19 to $45.49.
 Investors bid stocks lower as oil prices touched $53 a barrel in New York, then fell back to settle at $52.67, amid persistent commodity market speculation encouraged by production problems in Russia, Nigeria and the Gulf of Mexico.
 ''Oil continues to be the big story here,'' said Joseph Battipaglia of Ryan Beck & Company, ''and it's going to be hard for the markets to break out of a range while this continues to be a problem.''
 Elsewhere, mediocre retail sales reports for September led to new expressions of worry about the fourth-quarter holiday shopping season.
 The results at major retailers were mixed, with the biggest gains at the apparel chain American Eagle Outfitters, which reported a 22.7 percent rise in sales at stores open at least a year. Talbots reported a 1.3 percent drop in same-store sales, which was better than the 4 percent drop that Wall Street analysts expected. American Eagle shares gained 20 cents, closing at $37.62, while Talbots rose 20 cents to $25.99.
 Costco climbed $1.72, to $44.65, after reporting a 24 percent rise in quarterly earnings, surpassing Wall Street estimates by 4 cents a share. 
 Bank of America gained 18 cents, closing at $45.43, after saying it would cut 4,500 jobs, in addition to those announced after acquiring FleetBoston Financial. 
 Marriott International fell 80 cents to $53.02, despite posting quarterly profits that surpassed analysts' forecasts by a penny a share.
 Lucent Technologies, the most active Big Board stock, with 107 million shares traded, rose 9 cents to $3.48.
 Investors' concerns about the economy were assuaged somewhat as the Labor Department reported a drop in initial claims for unemployment benefits.
 On the bond market yesterday, Treasury prices fell as analysts and traders awaited today's report on employment in September. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 5/32 to 100 2/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.24 percent from 4.22 percent on Wednesday.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

High Price: 101.525
High Yield: 1.885
Low Yield: 1.600
Median Yield: 1.860
Accepted at low price: 25%
Total applied for: $21,969,807
Accepted: $9,000,006
Noncompetitive: $38,987
Interest set at: 2%

The 10-year inflation notes mature July 15, 2014.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Chart: ''Freddie Mac Yields''Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly.Graph tracks average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly, from June to September.30-year: 5.32%15-year: 4.74%(Source by F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); DRUG SAFETY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (79%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SALES FIGURES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); HEART DISEASE (71%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (71%); STROKES (66%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); RETAILERS (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE (62%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (60%); COMPANY EARNINGS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Stock Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Russell 2000 Stock Index; Government Bonds

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (93%); MERCK & CO INC (92%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (91%); AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (62%); ELI LILLY & CO (58%); NOVARTIS AG (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (55%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (93%); PFEB (BRU) (93%); PFE (NYSE) (93%); MRK (PAR) (92%); MRK (NYSE) (92%); JNJ (NYSE) (91%); AEO (NYSE) (62%); LLY (SWX) (58%); LLY (NYSE) (58%); LEL (LSE) (58%); NVS (NYSE) (58%); NOVN (SWX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (93%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (93%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (93%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (62%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (62%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (90%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (67%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



184 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Vividly Wraps Up Case Against Lawyer for Sheik

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
Prosecutors in the trial of Lynne F. Stewart, a lawyer accused of aiding terrorism, rested their case yesterday with a jolt to the jury, rereading vicious threats against Americans by a client of hers and suggesting links to Osama bin Laden in their evidence against her.
 After more than three months of laborious and often dull presentations of evidence, the prosecutors used the final morning to remind the jury of the strident anti-American views of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, a fundamentalist Muslim client of Ms. Stewart who is serving a life sentence in federal prison for inspiring a thwarted terrorist bombing plot in New York.
 Ms. Stewart is expected to take the stand on Wednesday, when the defense begins to present its case. 
 Three times yesterday morning, different prosecutors read a religious edict that they said Mr. Abdel Rahman had issued from prison, probably in 1997. ''Oh, you Muslims everywhere, sever the ties of their nation, tear them apart, ruin their economy, instigate against their corporations, destroy their embassies, attack their interests, sink their ships, and shoot down their airplanes,'' Mr. Abdel Rahman raged against the United States. ''Kill them in land, at sea, and in the air, kill them wherever you find them.''
 Documents that included the edict were found in F.B.I. searches of Ms. Stewart's office, and a tape recording of it was found at the home of one of her co-defendants, Ahmed Abdel Sattar, a paralegal aide, when they were arrested in April 2002. The prosecutors took turns reading those documents in court to complete the trial record of evidence seized during the searches and to support their charges about what Ms. Stewart knew about her client's propensity for violence. They also clearly wanted to remind the jurors of the grave threats that they consider the larger reason for bringing their case.
 The prosecutors presented a written version of a November 1998 news segment broadcast on CNN reporting that two of Mr. Abdel Rahman's sons were believed to have joined Mr. bin Laden in hiding in Afghanistan.
 They also played a secret F.B.I. recording of a telephone conversation between Mr. Sattar and Jeanne King, a freelance reporter for Reuters, from Sept. 24, 2001, about one year after the central events in the trial. Ms. King, audibly upset about the Sept. 11 attacks, presses Mr. Sattar to tell her whether he knows of any ties between the sheik and Mr. bin Laden.
 In his reply, Mr. Sattar seems to mislead Ms. King, insisting that he does not believe that the sheik ''ever said such a thing.''
 Twice during the morning in court, Judge John G. Koeltl had to instruct the jurors that Mr. bin Laden was not a co-conspirator in the case, and that they should not take discussions of him as facts.
 Ms. Stewart's lead lawyer, Michael E. Tigar, has battled to insulate her from any association with Mr. bin Laden and the Sept. 11 attacks, which occurred many months after the events at issue in the trial. He renewed his effort yesterday, asking Judge Koeltl in a motion to acquit Ms. Stewart immediately.
 The prosecutors' final exhibits ''reflect the terrible danger all these defendants face,'' Mr. Tigar said in arguments after the jurors left the courtroom, ''that this case, in the jurors' minds, will be about them versus us, that somehow there is a Muslim conspiracy out there to kill all the Christians and Jews, and that Osama bin Laden is part of it, and that anyone connected in any way must be involved.''
 Mr. Tigar said that Ms. Stewart had no intention of abetting any plan for violence when she conveyed a political message from the sheik to the press in June 2000, breaking prison rules. The severe restrictions imposed by the government on Ms. Stewart's discussions with the sheik in prison were ''at war with the autonomy of lawyers,'' Mr. Tigar said, and he accused the prosecutors of trying ''to redefine what it means to practice law.''
 Last Friday, Mr. Tigar asked the judge to dismiss the case on the grounds that the prosecutors' main evidence -- the F.B.I.'s records of hundreds of secretly recorded telephone calls involving the defendants -- was fatally flawed. Judge Koeltl declined to dismiss the case, and he said he would wait to rule on Mr. Tigar's motion for acquittal until after the jury's verdict. The trial began in Federal District Court in Manhattan on June 22. If convicted on all five counts against her, including a charge of conspiracy to aid terrorism, Ms. Stewart would face up to 35 years in prison. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); LAWYERS (91%); JURY TRIALS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); EVIDENCE (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); SENTENCING (79%); WITNESSES (79%); JAIL SENTENCING (79%); PARALEGALS (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); PRISONS (75%); RELIGION (75%); ARRESTS (74%); JUDGES (73%); FUNDAMENTALISM (70%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (60%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (52%) Terrorism; Bombs and Explosives; Legal Profession; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%) Julia Preston; Lynne F Stewart; Omar (Sheik) Abdel Rahman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



185 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: War in Iraq Plays a Role In Elections In Australia

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER

DATELINE: GLADESVILLE, Australia, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
On the eve of the Iraq war, Andrew Wilkie resigned from Australia's senior intelligence agency and declared that Iraq did not pose an immediate threat and that there was no concrete evidence linking Saddam Hussein to Al Qaeda.
 Mr. Wilkie was largely ignored, and Australia went to war alongside the United States and Britain. Today, Mr. Wilkie has joined the debate over Australia's role in the war. As part of a national election to be held Saturday, Mr. Wilkie has taken on Prime Minister John Howard, leader of the conservative Liberal Party, for a seat in the House of Representatives in this suburban Sydney district. 
 Mr. Wilkie, a retired military officer who is running on the Greens ticket, acknowledged in a community meeting here on Wednesday evening that it would be an upset if Mr. Howard were defeated for the parliamentary seat, which he has held since 1974.
 But Mr. Howard is also in a tight race nationally against the Labor Party, led by Mark Latham. The next leader will come from the party that wins a majority of the 150 seats in the House of Representatives. 
 The latest polls give the Liberals a slight lead, but in many respects it is surprising that the race is close at all. The Australian economy is in its 13th year of growth. Employment is near historic lows. Inflation is low. Interest rates are low. 
 Mr. Howard, who is 65, and Mr. Latham, 43, are appealing to pocketbooks, in a manner that has seen them likened to drunken sailors. The newspaper The Financial Review has been running a Spendometer. The latest bar graphs show that the two parties have each made promises that would cost about $10 billion.
 Mr. Latham, for instance, has sought the support of older voters with a promise of free medical care for everyone over 75. 
 Rather than brand him as a ''tax-and-spend liberal,'' Mr. Howard came back a few days later with a promise of up to $200 for retirees.
 One of Mr. Howard's themes is that Mr. Latham is too young, too inexperienced, to be prime minister.
 There are notable differences between the Liberals and Labor. Mr. Latham, for instance, has said he would publicly apologize to the country's Aborigines for the manner in which they were treated during Australia's early years; Mr. Howard has steadfastly declined to apologize. 
 Mr. Latham has also proposed reducing subsidizes to elite private schools, giving that money to public schools. The Liberals want to keep the private school subsidies. 
 On Iraq, the differences are stark. Mr. Howard has defended his decision to go to war and has said the 800 Australian troops in the Persian Gulf region will stay there as long as needed. 
 Mr. Latham has said that he will have the troops home by Christmas.
 Opponents of the Iraq war got a lift in August when 43 retired senior military commanders and senior diplomats issued a public statement saying that Australia went to war ''on the basis of false assumptions and the deception of the Australian people.'' The signers included a former chief of the navy, a former chief of the air force and a former secretary of defense. Australia's ''unquestioning support for the Bush administration'' has harmed Australia, they wrote. ''Terrorist activity, instead of being contained, has increased.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLITICS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); CHRISTMAS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Election Issues; Politics and Government; Elections; Legislatures and Parliaments; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (58%)

PERSON: JOHN HOWARD (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) Raymond Bonner; John (Prime Min) Howard; Andrew Wilkie; Mark Latham

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (78%) INDIAN OCEAN (50%) AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (58%) Iraq; Australia; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



186 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Tax Revenue Below 2000's Despite Growth in Profits

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
Even after a year of solid economic growth and booming corporate profits, federal income tax revenues were lower in the fiscal year that just ended than in the year before President Bush took office, according to estimates by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.
 In a sign that Mr. Bush's tax cuts have had a bigger impact on the federal deficit than administration officials have often suggested, personal and corporate income taxes are both lower than they were in 2000 even though personal income and corporate profits are both substantially higher. 
 Based on the Treasury Department's tax receipts through Sept. 30, the last day of the 2004 fiscal year, the budget office estimated that the deficit hit a record of $415 billion. The deficit was slightly smaller than the most recent Congressional and administration forecasts, mainly because corporate tax revenues shot up by 43 percent as profits climbed at the fastest pace in decades. Personal tax revenues rose by 2 percent.
 Republicans have cited the jump in business tax revenues as vindication for the four tax cuts that Mr. Bush has pushed through Congress since he took office. 
 ''The deficit is still too large, but we are moving in the right direction,'' said Representative Jim Nussle, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the House Budget Committee.
 But the four-year budget record is less comforting. Spending, particularly military spending, has climbed rapidly since Mr. Bush took office. Largely because of the war in Iraq, but also because of Pentagon modernization projects, military spending has climbed about 40 percent since 2000 to $437 billion. Military spending climbed 12.3 percent in 2004 alone, faster than Medicare and Medicaid entitlement programs and about three times faster than other discretionary programs.
 More striking is the decline in tax revenues since 2000. Tax revenues plunged when the stock market bubble collapsed in 2000 and continued to decline as a result of the recession in 2001 and the high unemployment that followed. But personal income and corporate profits have both recovered since the downturn and are once again at record highs.
 Scott Lilly, an economist at the Center for American Progress, a research group with strong Democratic ties, estimated that personal income climbed by 15 percent from 2000 through 2004, but the Congressional Budget Office estimated that personal income tax revenues declined from $1 trillion in 2000 to $810 billion in 2004. Corporate profits have climbed about 40 percent over the same period, but corporate tax revenues were $18 billion lower in 2004 than in 2000.
 Spending and tax revenues have been out of sync with historic patterns. On average, federal spending has consumed about 18.5 percent of the total economy, but spending climbed sharply under President Bush and is now about 20 percent of the gross domestic product.
 Tax revenues, by contrast, have plunged as a share of the total economy. Total tax revenues amounted to 16.3 percent of the total economy in 2004, the smallest share at any time in the last 40 years, according to the Congressional Budget Office. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TAX LAW (91%); INCOME TAX (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); IRAQ WAR (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); MEDICARE (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); MEDICAID (50%) Records and Achievements; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%) Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JIM NUSSLE (57%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



187 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE ISSUES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1957 words

HEADLINE: President Has Aggressively Pursued 'Pro-Growth' Ideas Nurtured in the Texas Oil Fields

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
They are often on stage with President Bush when he talks about the economy on the campaign trail: entrepreneurs whose business has turned up. There was George Puentes in Beaverton, Ore., whose tortilla-making company has hired more than 30 workers this year; Jim Bell in Derry, N.H., whose electronics company added 17 employees, and others like them in Wisconsin and Missouri and Pennsylvania.
 Their stories are the president's reply to those who cast him as a tool of his wealthy benefactors and a captive of corporate interests. He is at heart a small-business man, he suggests, bent on helping risk-takers seize the American dream and build prosperity, job by job.
 ''The entrepreneurial spirit is strong in the United States of America,'' Mr. Bush said at a rally in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., on Wednesday. 
 Heading into the homestretch of his re-election effort, Mr. Bush is vigorously defending his economic record. His tax cuts, he says, helped pull the United States out of recession and nurse it through the uncertainty caused by war and corporate scandals. His broader agenda of deregulation, more trade and limits on lawsuits, he asserts, will create jobs and help the nation thrive despite intense global competition.
 In the end, Mr. Bush's fortunes on the issue will clearly hinge more on the economy's performance than on his effort to position himself as the candidate of the little guy, or on Democratic claims that he has done little but make the rich richer and business better for the likes of Halliburton and Enron.
 On Friday morning, the Labor Department will release the last major set of economic statistics before the election, covering job creation and the unemployment rate in September. Depending on how strong or weak the figures are, Mr. Bush or Senator John Kerry will no doubt cite them in their debate Friday night in St. Louis to buttress their very different views of the economy's condition.
 On that score, the record is mixed. The economy has been growing since late in 2001, robustly at times. But despite three substantial tax-cut packages -- Mr. Bush signed a fourth into law this week -- job creation has been modest at best. The government's financial condition has deteriorated. Polls show that many Americans doubt conditions are improving. 
 Mr. Bush, though, has expressed no doubts that his is the right course. Should he win in November, he has laid the groundwork for a second-term agenda that is far more ambitious -- and, his critics say, divisive -- than his election-year packaging as, in his words, a ''pro-growth, pro-entrepreneur, pro-farmer, pro-small business'' candidate might suggest. It includes his proposal to remake Social Security by creating personal investment accounts and the first steps toward overhauling the tax system in a way sure to ignite another debate about fairness.
 However it is characterized, Mr. Bush's approach has drawn heavily on his journey through business and politics to the White House, aides, biographers, economists and political analysts say. That journey included his stint running a small oil company in Texas and his painful view from the sidelines as a conservative base grown disgruntled over tax increases and a sluggish economy contributed to his father's failure to win a second term as president.

A New Kind of Conservatism
 His positions are often criticized from both ends of the ideological spectrum as too politically opportunistic to be a coherent philosophy. Yet, perhaps by default as much as by design, he has created a new variant of conservative orthodoxy. It emphasizes choice and responsibility, while acknowledging a more substantial role for government than free-market purists would like.
 To those who had hoped Mr. Bush would be the ideological heir of Ronald Reagan, the label often applied to him, ''big-government conservative,'' is an oxymoron and evidence that he is not a true believer. To those who see his policies as an effort to come to terms with the reality that most Americans do not want to slash the size of government yet embrace low taxes and have faith in markets, Mr. Bush is redefining conservatism in a way that will prove to have an enduring political appeal.
 Democrats say that the label is beside the point, and that what matters is that his philosophy has rewarded the wealthy at the cost of running up the national debt without the payoff of a robust economic recovery.
 White House officials say their best defense is the evidence that the economy is strengthening.
 Mr. Bush points to the declining unemployment rate: it stands at 5.4 percent, down from a peak during his presidency of 6.3 percent in June 2003, though still well above the rate when he took office, 4.2 percent. Over the last year, Mr. Bush says, the economy has created 1.7 million jobs.
 Measured over his entire term, however, the economy has lost more than 900,000 jobs, leaving Mr. Bush at risk of becoming the first president since Herbert Hoover to preside over a net loss. And although the economy has now created jobs for 12 consecutive months, the pace has lagged below various projections made by the White House, including one late last year that the economy would generate an average of about 300,000 jobs a month this year (for the first eight months of 2004 it has averaged about 180,000 a month). Poverty levels rose during the first three years of his term, as did the number of people without health insurance.
 In part because of Mr. Bush's tax cuts -- on top of the recession, the costs of two wars and a surge in government spending -- the federal budget has swung from record surplus to record deficit. The trade deficit, too, has hit a new high, as has a broader measure of the nation's balance sheet, the current account deficit. At some point, many economists say, the United States will face a day of reckoning.
 ''We threw everything but the kitchen sink at the economy,'' said Diane C. Swonk, chief economist at the Bank One Corporation in Chicago, noting that Mr. Bush's tax cuts worked in concert with the Federal Reserve's steep interest-rate cuts during the administration's first three years. ''But,'' she added, ''you've got to believe there's a Santa Claus to believe there's no cost for the gifts under the tree.''

Entrepreneurial Roots
 In the summer of 1975, freshly graduated from Harvard Business School, Mr. Bush drove back to dusty West Texas to try his hand in the stomach-churning world of independent oil drilling.
 Mr. Bush, then 29, settled in Midland and quickly found himself caught up in a boom mentality, spurred by rising oil prices, easy money, advantageous tax laws and the perpetual optimism of colleagues in the high-risk, high-reward business of sniffing out the next gusher. 
 ''We used to think of it as entrepreneurial heaven,'' said Donald L. Evans, who also started an oil business in Midland back then and is now commerce secretary.
 Out of the scrappy business culture that Mr. Bush joined came the seeds of his long-running opposition to what he sees as excessive regulation. At the time, independent oil producers in Texas were seething over federal regulations, especially price controls on crude oil and refined petroleum products.
 ''These regulations just drove them nuts,'' said John A. Hill, a native of Midland and a former federal energy regulator who dealt frequently with the independent oilmen of West Texas.
 Undone by a collapse in oil prices in the mid-1980's, Mr. Bush's career in the oil patch never amounted to much, despite the advantages of his family name and connections, and it ended when he sold out under a heavy debt burden in 1986. But in those years -- and to a lesser extent in his subsequent role as managing general partner of the Texas Rangers baseball team -- he acquired business experience that few presidents of the last half-century have had, raising money on Wall Street, meeting a payroll, feeling firsthand the effects of government policy decisions and global economic forces. 
 In campaign appearances, Mr. Bush insists that he cut taxes on the highest income brackets to encourage small businesses, some of which pay tax at the top personal rates. His call to eliminate the estate tax, his push to limit lawsuit awards, his proposal to expand tax-free health savings accounts, his support for reduced taxes on savings and investment income -- all are presented as ways to help small businesses, which he says account for most new jobs. 
 ''When you cut taxes, all taxes, you're really supplying additional capital to the small-business sector,'' Mr. Bush said in an interview in August with The New York Times. ''That's how you stimulate growth, is let people keep more of their own money. And so, therefore, when you cut all rates, including the top rate, it affects nearly a million sole proprietorships or small-business owners.''
 To critics of the administration's economic record, that small-business, ordinary-guy theme is a political artifice. For all his talk, they point out that this year he tried to slash the program that subsidizes small-business loans. His assertion that reducing the top income-tax rate is primarily an effort to help small businesses has been challenged by many economists, who say the White House has exaggerated how much tax reductions in the top bracket flow to small-business owners. 
 ''You can fairly say this is a political hoax,'' said Kevin Phillips, the author of ''American Dynasty: Aristocracy, Fortune, and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush,'' a critical look at the Bush family. 
 ''Essentially what you have here is a group of people, including him, who want to try to convince the thin cats of the American economy, which is to say the middle class, that they are really in the business of helping them and not the fat cats,'' Mr. Phillips said. ''But the Bush family has been in the business of helping the fat cats for four generations.''
 In developing economic policy, Mr. Bush would ultimately weave together all the strands of thought that coursed through his party in the 1970's and 1980's: the rise of the tax-cutting supply-siders, the growing political clout of small-business owners and the influence of Christian conservatives.
 But his outlook was also largely shaped by the lessons he took from his father's defeat in 1992.
 There were many reasons the elder Mr. Bush lost his re-election race, including Bill Clinton's relentless portrayal of him as indifferent to the economic hardships of ordinary people. The younger Mr. Bush, though, saw trouble emanating from another front. He concluded that conservatives, disheartened by his father's decision to break his ''no new taxes'' pledge in an effort to reduce the budget deficit, registered their displeasure by staying home in 1992. When he ran for president in 2000, challenged from the right in the Republican primaries by committed tax cutters like Steve Forbes, Mr. Bush made clear he would not repeat his father's mistake.
 Yet even as he has assiduously courted the right on tax cuts, he has veered around the ideological map on other elements of his economic agenda, exhibiting what could be characterized as either political pragmatism or opportunism. He pursued expanded trade with other nations, but he also imposed temporary tariffs on imported steel. On one entitlement program, Social Security, he sought to reduce the role of government, but on another, Medicare, he embraced the biggest expansion in decades, a prescription drug benefit.
 He railed against increased government spending, but signed an agriculture-subsidy bill portrayed by critics as a bloated giveaway to special interests. He championed deregulation, but signed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which created strict new oversight of corporate finance.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Gauging Unemployment And Job Creation''President Bush points to the declining unemployment rate as evidence of a strengthening economy, though the rate is still higher than it was when he took office. And while the economy has added jobs for 12 consecutive months, it has not done so at the pace of various projections made by the White House.Graph tracks the unempolyment rate since 2000 highlighting the following:January 2001: President Bush sworn inSeptember 2001: Terrorist attacksMarch-November 2001: RecessionGraph tracks monthly change in nonfarm jobs since 2000.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); DEREGULATION (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); ELECTRONICS (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); LITIGATION (71%); STATISTICS (68%); TAX REFORM (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); SCANDALS (52%) United States Economy; Surveys and Series; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Taxation; Suits and Litigation; International Trade and World Market; United States Economy

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



188 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Working For A Pittance

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Reality keeps rearing its ugly head. The Bush administration's case for the war in Iraq has completely fallen apart, as evidenced by the report this week from the president's handpicked inspector that Iraq had destroyed its illicit weapons stockpiles in the early 1990's.
 Coming next week are the results of a new study that shows -- here at home -- how tough a time American families are having in their never-ending struggle to put food on the table and keep a roof over their heads. The White House, as deep in denial about the economy as it is about Iraq, insists that things are fine -- despite the embarrassing fact that President Bush is on track to become the first president since Herbert Hoover to preside over a net loss of jobs during his four years in office. 
 The study, jointly sponsored by the Annie E. Casey, Ford and Rockefeller Foundations, will show that 9.2 million working families in the United States -- one out of every four -- earn wages that are so low they are barely able to survive financially.
 ''Our data is very solid and shows that this is a much bigger problem than most people imagine,'' said Brandon Roberts, one of the authors of the report, which is to be formally released on Tuesday. The report found that there are 20 million children in these low-income working families.
 For the purposes of the study, any family in which at least one person was employed was considered a working family. Very wealthy families were included.
 The median income for a family of four in the U.S. is $62,732. According to the study, a family of four earning less than $36,784 is considered low-income. A family of four earning less than $18,392 is considered poor. The 9.2 million struggling families cited by the report fell into one of the latter two categories. And those families have one-third of all the children in American working families.
 Not surprisingly, the problem for millions of families is that they have jobs that pay very low wages and provide no benefits. ''Consider the motel housekeeper, the retail clerk at the hardware store or the coffee shop cook,'' the report said. ''If they have children, chances are good that their families are living on an income too low to provide for their basic needs.''
 Neither politicians nor the media put much of a spotlight on families that are struggling economically. According to the study, one in five workers are in occupations where the median wage is less than $8.84 an hour, which is a poverty-level wage for a family of four. A full-time job at the federal minimum wage of $5.15 an hour is not even sufficient to keep a family of three out of poverty.
 Families with that kind of income are teetering on the edge of an economic abyss. Any misfortune might push them over the edge -- an illness, an automobile breakdown, even something as seemingly minor as a flooded basement.
 For the families in these lower-income brackets, life is often a harrowing day-to-day struggle to pay for the bare necessities. According to federal government statistics, the median annual rent for a two-bedroom apartment in major metropolitan markets is more than $8,000. The annual cost of food for a low-income family of four is nearly $4,000. Utility bills are nearly $2,000. Transportation costs are about $1,500. And then there are costs for child care, health care and clothing.
 You do the math. How are these millions of poor and low-income families making it?
 (A lot of those families are going to get a shock this winter as price increases for crude oil get translated into big jumps in home heating bills.)
 The economy relies heavily on the services provided by low-wage workers but, as the report notes, ''our society has not taken adequate steps to ensure that these workers can make ends meet and build a future for their families, no matter how determined they are to be self-sufficient.''
 Mr. Roberts said he hoped the study, titled ''Working Hard, Falling Short,'' would help initiate a national discussion of the plight of families who are doing the right thing but not earning enough to get ahead. ''Seventy-one percent of low-income families work,'' he said. More than half are headed by married couples. But economic self-sufficiency remains maddeningly out of reach.
 Even in a presidential election year, these matters have not been explored in any sustained way. We're quick to give lip service to the need to work hard, but very slow to properly reward hard work. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILDREN (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); MINIMUM WAGE (88%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); HOTEL STAFF (65%); HARDWARE STORES (60%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (57%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (50%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Unemployment; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Minimum Wage; Labor

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Bob Herbert; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



189 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Ignorance Isn't Strength

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I first used the word ''Orwellian'' to describe the Bush team in October 2000. Even then it was obvious that George W. Bush surrounds himself with people who insist that up is down, and ignorance is strength. But the full costs of his denial of reality are only now becoming clear.
 President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney have an unparalleled ability to insulate themselves from inconvenient facts. They lead a party that controls all three branches of government, and face news media that in some cases are partisan supporters, and in other cases are reluctant to state plainly that officials aren't telling the truth. They also still enjoy the residue of the faith placed in them after 9/11. 
 This has allowed them to engage in what Orwell called ''reality control.'' In the world according to the Bush administration, our leaders are infallible, and their policies always succeed. If the facts don't fit that assumption, they just deny the facts. 
 As a political strategy, reality control has worked very well. But as a strategy for governing, it has led to predictable disaster. When leaders live in an invented reality, they do a bad job of dealing with real reality. 
 In the last few days we've seen some impressive demonstrations of reality control at work. During the debate on Tuesday, Mr. Cheney insisted that ''I have not suggested there's a connection between Iraq and 9/11.'' After the release of the Duelfer report, which shows that Saddam's weapons capabilities were deteriorating, not advancing, at the time of the invasion, Mr. Cheney declared that the report proved that ''delay, defer, wait wasn't an option.''
 From a political point of view, such exercises in denial have been very successful. For example, the Bush administration has managed to convince many people that its tax cuts, which go primarily to the wealthiest few percent of the population, are populist measures benefiting middle-class families and small businesses. (Under the administration's definition, anyone with ''business income'' -- a group that includes Dick Cheney and George Bush -- is a struggling small-business owner.)
 The administration has also managed to convince at least some people that its economic record, which includes the worst employment performance in 70 years, is a great success, and that the economy is ''strong and getting stronger.'' (The data to be released today, which are expected to improve the numbers a bit, won't change the basic picture of a dismal four years.)
 Officials have even managed to convince many people that they are moving forward on environmental policy. They boast of their ''Clear Skies'' plan even as the inspector general of the E.P.A. declares that the enforcement of existing air-quality rules has collapsed. 
 But the political ability of the Bush administration to deny reality -- to live in an invented world in which everything is the way officials want it to be -- has led to an ongoing disaster in Iraq and looming disaster elsewhere.
 How did the occupation of Iraq go so wrong? (The security situation has deteriorated to the point where there are no safe places: a bomb was discovered on Tuesday in front of a popular restaurant inside the Green Zone.) 
 The insulation of officials from reality is central to the story. They wanted to believe Ahmad Chalabi's promises that we'd be welcomed with flowers; nobody could tell them different. They wanted to believe -- months after everyone outside the administration realized that we were facing a large, dangerous insurgency and needed more troops -- that the attackers were a handful of foreign terrorists and Baathist dead-enders; nobody could tell them different.
 Why did the economy perform so badly? Long after it was obvious to everyone outside the administration that the tax-cut strategy wasn't an effective way of creating jobs, administration officials kept promising huge job gains, any day now. Nobody could tell them different.
 Why has the pursuit of terrorists been so unsuccessful? It has been obvious for years that John Ashcroft isn't just scary; he's also scarily incompetent. But inside the administration, he's considered the man for the job -- and nobody can say different.
 The point is that in the real world, as opposed to the political world, ignorance isn't strength. A leader who has the political power to pretend that he's infallible, and uses that power to avoid ever admitting mistakes, eventually makes mistakes so large that they can't be covered up. And that's what's happening to Mr. Bush. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); FAMILY (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); DICK CHENEY (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



190 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Senators Lobby S.E.C. Chief To Delay New Options Rule

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

 BODY:
The technology industry may no longer have the kind of political sway it enjoyed in the late 1990's, but it is making a strong push on Capitol Hill to prevent regulators from forcing companies to treat stock options as a business expense. Options are more often used as a form of compensation in the technology sector than in other industries. 
 Over the last week, more than 50 senators have joined the fight on stock options, lobbying William H. Donaldson, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, to delay the mandatory rule, set to go into effect in January, requiring that options be treated as expenses. The S.E.C. has ultimate say over the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which has championed the rule change. 
 In the past, Mr. Donaldson has warned Congress against interfering with the accounting board and the process in place to develop more accurate financial statements. 
 A major point in the dispute is the difficulty of determining prices for options when their value can be known only some years later. Advocates of the rule change have long argued that options have economic value, and should be taken into account on the corporate income statement.
 ''F.A.S.B. has the technical expertise to do a better job than they've done,'' said Senator Michael B. Enzi, a Republican from Wyoming, in an interview yesterday. ''They need to delay action until they can do a better job on this. I don't know what the rush is.''
 Mr. Enzi was one of 34 Republican senators signing a letter sent to Mr. Donaldson on Wednesday, asking him to intervene before the accounting board's proposed changes take effect. Also on Wednesday, 15 Democratic senators, including Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, wrote to Mr. Donaldson urging him to ''devote additional time and resources to studying and testing various valuation methodologies.''
 Over the last ten days, three other senators, including the majority leader, Bill Frist, a Republican from Tennessee, have written similar letters to Mr. Donaldson asking for a delay in the rule change. 
 The letter signers included all 31 of the senators co-sponsoring a Senate bill, supported by the technology industry lobby, that would require companies to expense only the options granted to their five highest-paid employees. The bill is considered by its critics to be an effort to eviscerate the rule change. 
 But 21 senators who did not sponsor that legislation also asked for a delay. Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, for instance, sent his own letter Wednesday, stating that while the matter should be decided by the accounting board, not Congress, he was concerned that without further guidance from the S.E.C., stock options might not be valued accurately. 
 Paul Hodgson, a senior research associate at the Corporate Library, one of the groups supporting the accounting rule change, is convinced, however, that any delay is nothing but a victory for the technology lobby. ''This has been their strategy all along,'' he said. ''Find ways to put this off for just a little longer.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BONDS (68%) Stocks and Bonds; Stock Options and Purchase Plans; Computers and the Internet; Accounting and Accountants; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Executives and Management

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (83%) Securities and Exchange Commission; Financial Accounting Standards Board

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TED KENNEDY (58%); MIKE ENZI (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (56%) Gary Rivlin; William H (Chmn) Donaldson

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



191 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: THE SANCTIONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: U.S. REPORT SAYS HUSSEIN BOUGHT ARMS WITH EASE

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON and SCOTT SHANE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
Enriched with billions of dollars raised by exploiting the United Nations' oil-for-food program, Saddam Hussein spent heavily on arms imports starting in 1999, finding six governments and private companies from a dozen other nations that were willing to ignore sanctions prohibiting arms sales, the report by the top American arms inspector for Iraq has found.
 The purchases, which included components of long-range missiles, spare parts for tanks and night-vision equipment, were not enough to allow Iraq to significantly rebuild its conventional military or create a viable chemical, biological or nuclear weapons program, according to the report by the inspector, Charles A. Duelfer, which was released Wednesday.
 But the relative ease with which Mr. Hussein was able to buy weapons -- working directly with governments in Syria, Belarus, Yemen, North Korea, the former Yugoslavia and possibly Russia, as well as with private companies in Europe, Asia and the Middle East -- is documented in extraordinary detail, including repeated visits by government officials and arms merchants to Iraq and complicated schemes to disguise illegal shipments to Iraq. 
 ''Prohibited goods and weapons were being shipped into Iraq with virtually no problem,'' the report says. ''Indeed, Iraq was designing missile systems with the assumption that sanctioned material would be readily available.''
 The report suggests that Mr. Hussein was justified when, speaking at a gathering of leaders of the Iraqi armed forces in January 2000, he boasted that despite efforts by the United States and the United Nations to isolate Iraq, he would still be able to buy just about whatever he wanted. ''We have said with certainty that the embargo will not be lifted by a Security Council resolution, but will corrode by itself,'' Mr. Hussein said in the speech, a remark that is quoted on the cover of the chapter in Mr. Duelfer's report that details the ineffectiveness of the embargo.
 The report is replete with names, dates and documents detailing negotiations over arms purchases and technical advice, which continued until just days before the United States-led invasion in March 2003. An Iraqi memo from 2000 tells military officials in Baghdad that the deputy general manager of the French company Sofema, a military-component marketer, will be bringing a company catalog so that they can ''discuss your needs with him.'' 
 President Bush, speaking to reporters on the South Lawn of the White House on Thursday, said the report demonstrated that Iraq was determined to illegally rebuild its military. ''Saddam was systematically gaming the system, using the United Nations oil-for-food program to try to influence countries and companies in an effort to undermine sanctions,'' he said.
 While the scope of the inquiry did not extend beyond Iraq, the report raises fundamental questions about the effectiveness of sanctions, a tool the United States has frequently used as a foreign policy tool short of military action. Offered lucrative contracts by Mr. Hussein, both arms suppliers and government officials seem not to have hesitated to ignore United Nations trade restrictions, going so far as to disguise tank engines as agricultural parts.
 What actions, if any, the United States will take toward sanctions violators is unclear, as are the implications for current United States standoffs with nations like Iran and North Korea over nuclear weapons programs. But sanctions remain one of the few options in many complex international disputes.
 ''They're often better than nothing,'' said Joshua Muravchik, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute who is writing a book on the United Nations. 
 The illicit trade accelerated as the years passed and the threats of possible military action by the United States increased, with the number of deals among the top suppliers climbing from about 5 transactions in 1998 to more than 15 in 2000 and more than 35 in 2002, the report says.
 North Korea and Belarus made perhaps the most aggressive effort to sell advanced military equipment to Iraq, the report says, delivering items that included radar technology that was ultimately used against American attack planes.
 President Aleksandr Lukashenko of Belarus was involved in the deals, the report says, noting that he ''was anxious that illicit trade should continue on a regular basis and requested that a firm called Belarus Afta be established in Baghdad as a clearinghouse for illicit military trade.''
 A spokesman from the Belarus Embassy in Washington said that any items sold to Iraq complied with United Nations' rules. ''We have always maintained and we continue to maintain that all these accusations are preposterous,'' said the spokesman, Valentin Rybakov.
 Among European allies, France's military industry had extensive contacts with Iraqi officials. The report describes, for example, repeated trips by an executive from the French company Lura, which sold Iraq a tank carrier. 
 Other private companies from Jordan, China, India, South Korea, Bulgaria, Ukraine, Cyprus, Egypt, Lebanon, Georgia, Poland, Romania, Taiwan, Italy and Turkey offered or sold items that supported Iraq's conventional arms programs or could have been used by Mr. Hussein to make weapons of mass destruction, the report says.
 No American individuals or companies were named in the report as supplying Iraq with military goods or other prohibited items. But a number of United States companies and at least two American citizens are listed as having received oil vouchers that permitted them to profit from the oil-for-food program.
 Unlike hundreds of voucher recipients from other countries, the American recipients are not named in the report but only listed as ''United States company'' or ''United States person,'' an omission that a government official said was required by American privacy laws. 
 In January, an Iraqi newspaper, Al Mada, ran a list of 270 recipients of oil vouchers that appears to closely parallel the list in the Duelfer report. That list included two Americans, Shaker al-Khafaji and Samir Vincent, neither of whom could be reached for comment on Thursday.
 Iraq went to great lengths to build a missile system with a range longer than the limits imposed by the United Nations, a major technological challenge that required the import of an array of banned parts. Companies from China and Russia sold, or negotiated to sell, missile guidance systems, the report says. A Polish company supplied a propulsion system. An Indian company built and sold Iraq a missile-fuel processing plant.
 In some cases, governments moved to stop the illicit trade. In 2002, for example, Indian authorities arrested executives at NEC Engineering, which the report says imported solid propellant ingredients for Iraqi surface-to-surface missiles.
 The report describes in detail the extraordinary measures taken to move illicit goods into Iraq and to cover the tracks of violators. Iraqi diplomats smuggled radar-jamming devices in diplomatic pouches. An airline created by Iraq and Belarus used four Boeing 747's to move goods from Minsk, the Belarussian capital, to Baghdad ''under cover of humanitarian aid missions.'' 
 ''During the sanction years, traders used a pool of private dhows, barges, and tankers to smuggle oil out and commodities into and out of Iraq's southern ports with relative ease,'' the report says.
 The report also cites evidence that the Jordanian government closely monitored illegal shipments and canceled an inspection arrangement with Lloyd's Register Group of London, an independent monitor of trade, to make smuggling easier. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS TRADE (92%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (76%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (71%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Arms Sales Abroad; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Missiles and Missile Defense Systems

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%) United Nations

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Eric Lipton; Scott Shane; Saddam (Pres) Hussein; Charles Duelfer

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); BELARUS (92%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%); ASIA (79%); SERBIA (79%); FRANCE (71%) Iraq; Iraq; Syria; Belarus ; Yemen; North Korea; Yugoslavia; Russia; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



192 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: COMBATING INSURGENTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1679 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon Sets Steps to Retake Iraq Rebel Sites

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT and THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
Pentagon planners and military commanders have identified 20 to 30 towns and cities in Iraq that must be brought under control before nationwide elections can be held in January, and have devised detailed ways of deciding which ones should be early priorities, according to senior administration and military officials.
 Recent military operations to quell the Iraqi insurgency in Tal Afar, Samarra and south of Baghdad are the first and most visible signs of the new, six-pronged strategy for Iraq, approved at the highest levels of the Bush administration, the officials said. While elements of the plan have been discussed in generalities recently, the officials described it in much more detail, calling it a comprehensive guideline to their actions in the next few months.
 As American military deaths have increased in Iraq and commanders struggle to combat a tenacious insurgency and a deadly spate of bombings, even administration officials involved in creating the plan acknowledge that American forces face an extraordinarily difficult task and that success is far from guaranteed.
 Both the overall strategy and the specific military component were described by senior administration, Pentagon and military officials in interviews over the last two weeks in response to requests from The New York Times for an answer to the question, ''Is there a plan for Iraq?'' 
 The three military officers who discussed the plan have seen the briefing charts for the new strategy, and the three civilian officials who discussed it were involved in deliberations that resulted in the strategy. The civilians, in particular, agreed to discuss the newest thinking in part to rebut criticism from campaign of Senator John Kerry that the administration has no plan for Iraq. 
 The new strategy was written this summer and laid down in a series of classified directives to the new American Embassy in Baghdad and to the United States military headquarters there. The instructions are an acknowledgment that the insurgency had seized the initiative in Sunni strongholds north and west of Baghdad and in the southern city of Najaf, considered holy by Shiites.
 For each of the cities identified as guerrilla strongholds or vulnerable to falling into insurgent hands, a set of measurements was created to track whether the rebels' grip was being loosened by initiatives of the new Iraqi government, using such criteria as the numbers of Iraqi security personnel on patrol, voter registration, economic development and health care.
 And for each city, a timeline was established for military action to establish Iraqi local control if purely political steps by the central government proved insufficient.
 ''We're working on them by population size, by importance to the election,'' said one senior administration official, who added that the ultimate objective was to make sure that the main Sunni Muslim cities were able to take part in free elections. ''That's where the bad security situations are, and that's where we really need to make some major political and economic changes in the next several months if we're going to have a successful nationwide election,'' he said.
 The military plan also contains options to reduce the approximately 138,000 American forces in Iraq by brigade-size increments of roughly 5,000 troops beginning next year, if the security situation improves and Iraqi forces show they can maintain order. ''Depending how the security looks, the force levels could be reduced,'' one Pentagon official said. 
 Their efforts are made more difficult by the mixed performance of new Iraqi security forces, the slow pace of reconstruction projects hobbled by contract problems and guerrilla attacks and a large segment of the Iraqi population that still seems unprepared to cast its lot with the new government in Iraq. 
 One administration official, in assessing the plan's chances for success, stressed the difficulty of guaranteeing the safety of Iraqis who choose to support the new government by signing up for jobs in local police departments and municipal administrations. ''If we can eliminate the armed threat that assassinates and intimidates and blows up local officials, there's at least a reasonable chance it can work,'' the official said. 
 The overall political, military and economic strategy is contained in a classified guidance document titled ''U.S. National Strategy for Supporting Iraq.'' The plan, which is being coordinated by the National Security Council, sets six basic priorities, which President Bush has been briefed on, administration officials said.
 The priorities are to neutralize insurgents, ensure legitimate elections, create jobs and provide essential services, establish foundations for a strong economy, develop good governance and the rule of law and increase international support for the effort.
 While the broad themes are not new, senior officials now make no secret that those missions have not been carried out successfully during the first year following the end of major combat operations. Many in the administration and the military now view the past working relationship of L. Paul Bremer III, the former chief of the provisional authority in Baghdad, and Lt. Gen. Ricardo S. Sanchez, who recently departed Iraq as military commander there, as ineffective.
 These officials say they hope that the recent transfer of sovereignty to Iraqis from the American-led provisional authority, the arrival of a new American ambassador and the creation of a new four-star military position to command security missions in Iraq offer a second chance.
 ''What's new, I think, is the fact that we're putting our weight behind them in a coordinated manner,'' a senior administration official said. ''It's not like Sanchez is going in one direction, and Bremer's going in another direction, and the Iraqis are going in a third direction. There is an integrated plan.''
 The new strategy is to assure that ''there's no longer any divide between our military-security strategy and our economic and political strategy,'' the official said. 
 American diplomats and commanders in Iraq also stress that they are looking to the interim government of Prime Minister Ayad Allawi as a full partner, expecting him to take the lead in political decisions regarding his nation and to assume security responsibilities in former insurgent strongholds once they are cleared by joint operations of American and Iraqi forces.
 One senior administration official summarized its broad thrust as: ''Use the economic tools and the governance tools to separate out hard-core insurgents you have to deal with by force from those people who are shooting at us because somebody's paying them $100 a week.'' 
 The military component of the effort is described in a separate, classified document, written over the summer.
 This ''Campaign Strategy'' or ''Campaign Plan'' was written after Gen. George W. Casey Jr. took command of allied forces in Iraq at the beginning of July, in consultation with the military's Joint Staff, the office of the secretary of defense and the United States Central Command, which is responsible for operations across the Middle East.
 The administration had already said that it would shift $1.8 billion from reconstruction projects to law enforcement and security, principally to train and equip an additional 80,000 Iraqi police officers, border guards and soldiers, and build facilities for them. A comparable amount was shifted into projects to increase employment.
 ''With the Iraqi forces moving into these places that have been contested by the anti-Iraqi forces, as things settle down, they bring the other Iraqi institutions of the new government in there,'' said Lt. Gen. Wallace C. Gregson, the commander of Marine forces in the Middle East, who visited Iraq last month. ''We can start demonstrating that the course that Prime Minister Allawi's government is on, is the one that will bring peace, stability and prosperity to Iraq.'' 
 Defense Department and other administration officials say the recent offensives in Samarra and northern Babil Province, as well as airstrikes against the network of the Jordanian terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, are all part of a new strategy for American and Iraqi forces to pick the time and place of their offensives, instead of responding to insurgent uprisings, as happened in Najaf in April and August.
 ''What you have here is a new approach,'' one senior administration official said. ''Najaf was not planned. We didn't plan to go in and have to do that. But we know, once we got that behind us, where do we have to work? We have to work Samarra. We have to work Ramadi. We've done our bit in Samarra. Now we're consolidating and cleaning up. We're doing kinetic strikes in Falluja.''
 The military campaign relies heavily on preparing Iraqi forces to hold the cities after American and Iraqi troops retake insurgent strongholds like Samarra. After the Iraqi forces' dismal showing in the uprisings in April, the training program was revamped. One of the Army's top officers, Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus, was brought in to oversee a training mission that in many ways was starting from scratch.
 Commanders report that only now is badly needed equipment flowing to Iraqi units, and as of Wednesday the Pentagon reported that only about one-third of the required 270,000 security forces had received some training. Many of them still lack equipment.
 General Petraeus and Dr. Allawi have disagreed on the pace of fielding Iraqi forces, military officials say, with the Iraqi leader wanting more troops, faster, and General Petraeus wary of pushing the Iraqis too quickly into what one American official called ''a rush to failure.''
 The recent military operations have included a mix of American soldiers and marines, with Iraqis trained in counterterrorism, urban combat and emergency response situations.
 But American commanders say it is still an open question whether the newly trained Iraqi forces can stand up over the long run to insurgent attacks, bribes and threats against their families.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sgt. Arnold Stone, right, and Lt. Shawn Tabankin, lower left, planned raids in Samarra, a stronghold of the insurgency. (Photo by Ashley Gilbertson for The New York Times)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POLITICS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare ; Election Issues; Elections; Politics and Government; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%) Eric Schmitt; Thom Shanker; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%) Iraq; Samarra (Iraq); Tal Afar (Iraq); Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



193 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ON THE TRAIL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: Arms Report Spurs Bitter Bush-Kerry Exchange

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and JODI WILGOREN; David E. Sanger reported from Wausau, Wis., for this article, and Jodi Wilgoren from Englewood, Colo. Raymond Hernandez contributed reporting from Miami and Randal C. Archibold from Bayonne, N.J.

DATELINE: WAUSAU, Wis., Oct. 7 

 BODY:
President Bush and Senator John Kerry engaged in a bitter long-distance debate on Thursday about a report by the C.I.A.'s top weapons inspector, with Mr. Bush arguing that it demonstrated he was ''right to take action'' in Iraq despite its findings that Saddam Hussein had eliminated stockpiles of illicit weapons years before the invasion. 
 Mr. Kerry, emboldened by the report's unraveling of the administration's main rationale for going to war, shot back with his sharpest indictment yet, telling reporters that Mr. Bush and his vice president ''may well be the last two people on the planet who won't face the truth about Iraq.''
 Mr. Bush's statement in Washington, and a more impassioned case he made here late Thursday afternoon, were his first responses to the 918-page report by Charles A. Duelfer. Both Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney focused on sections of the report saying that Mr. Hussein had wanted to reconstitute his weapons programs at some point and that he had found his way around economic sanctions. 
 Unbowed and defiant in an appearance on the South Lawn of the White House, Mr. Bush said of the Iraqi dictator, ''He retained the knowledge, the materials, the means and the intent to produce weapons of mass destruction.'' And, he added, ''he could have passed that knowledge on to our terrorist enemies.'' 
 Speaking to reporters in Englewood, Colo., Mr. Kerry said that ''this week has provided definitive evidence'' for why Mr. Bush should not be re-elected. The president, Mr. Kerry said, was ''not being straight with Americans.''
 Both the speed and the heat of the exchanges paved the way for the second presidential debate, to be held Friday night in St. Louis. Perhaps more important, they underscored how both candidates have staked their electoral fates to how voters judge them on Iraq, even as the debates nominally turn to questions of the economy and domestic policy.
 Talking to a cheering partisan crowd here in the afternoon, the president quoted at length from a statement the Massachusetts senator made on the floor of the Senate almost exactly two years ago, warning of the danger that Mr. Hussein might spread nuclear technology around the world. 
 After reading from Mr. Kerry's statement, the president looked up at his crowd in a park here and asked, ''Just who is the one trying to mislead the American people?'' 
 The Kerry campaign said Mr. Bush had yanked its candidate's words out of context, and noted that in the same speech, Mr. Kerry had said: ''Regime change in and of itself is not sufficient justification for going to war, particularly unilaterally, unless regime change is the only way to disarm Iraq of the weapons of mass destruction pursuant to the United Nations resolution. As bad as he is, Saddam Hussein, the dictator, is not the cause of war.''
 On Iraq, Mr. Bush has chosen to give no ground, even after a week that his own aides concede has brought nothing but bad news, from the C.I.A. report to a declaration by the former American administrator in Iraq, L. Paul Bremer III, that the administration committed too few troops to secure Iraq after the invasion was over.
 For Mr. Kerry, who has struggled throughout his two-year quest for the presidency to defend himself against charges that his voting record on the war was one of vacillation, the Duelfer report and Mr. Bremer's comments have provided the opportunity to attempt to refocus the debate on Mr. Bush's rationale for going to war, and his competence in executing the occupation. 
 On Thursday Mr. Kerry described Saddam Hussein as an enemy the Bush administration had ''aggrandized and fictionalized,'' and he warned that if Mr. Bush does not recognize the severity of problems in Iraq, the violence in the Middle East will escalate. ''If the president just does more of the same every day and it continues to deteriorate, I may be handed Lebanon, figuratively speaking,'' Mr. Kerry said, a reference to the civil wars that racked that country for many years.
 Standing on a grassy lawn with the snow-topped Rockies in the distance, he said, ''My fellow Americans, you don't make up or find reasons to go to war after the fact.''
 ''Ambassador Bremer finally said what John Edwards and I have been saying for months,'' Mr. Kerry continued, referring to an acknowledgment this week by the former head of the Coalition Provisional Authority about shortcomings of the American military operation in Iraq. ''President Bush's decision to send in too few troops, without thinking about what would happen after the initial fighting was over, has left our troops more vulnerable, left the situation on the ground in chaos and made the mission in Iraq much more difficult to accomplish.''
 Mr. Bush was clearly ready for the senator's attack, and he arrived in Wisconsin armed with statements made by Mr. Kerry before the 1991 Persian Gulf war and in the debate that led up to last year's war in Iraq.
 ''Just a short time ago, my opponent held a little press conference and continued his pattern of overheated rhetoric,'' Mr. Bush said within minutes of arriving here. ''He accused me of deception. He's claiming I misled American about weapons, when he himself cited the very same intelligence'' in voting to authorize Mr. Bush to threaten war.
 Then he quoted Mr. Kerry's statement in the Senate, where he asked, rhetorically, ''Who can say that this master of miscalculation will not develop a weapon of mass destruction, even greater, a nuclear weapon, then reinvade Kuwait or push the Kurds out, attack Israel, any number of scenarios to try to further his ambitions,'' or ''allow those weapons to slide off to one group or another.''
 The heart of the difference between the two candidates is how they dealt with that assessment. 
 Mr. Bush says he saw such intelligence as a justification for pre-emptive war -- a long-established international practice that permits a nation to strike just prior to being struck itself. The Duelfer report now indicates that the intelligence was wrong in major respects.
 Mr. Kerry says that the pre-war intelligence was a reason to press for further inspections and pressure on Mr. Hussein, and that the vote to authorize war was part of that pressure. But he faults Mr. Bush for acting before that process had a chance to work.
 Mr. Kerry also responded Thursday to a statement by Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, that the Pentagon, not the White House, was responsible for determining troop deployment. He noted that Ms. Rice works in the White House, ''the place that used to have a sign that said 'The Buck Stops Here.'''
 ''For President Bush, it's always someone else's fault -- denial, and blaming someone else,'' he declared. ''It is wrong for this administration to blame our military leaders, particularly when our military leaders gave him the advice that he didn't follow. The truth is, the responsibility lies with the commander in chief.''
 Mr. Kerry had spent Wednesday in seclusion, drilling with a large team of aides in a nondescript hotel ballroom transformed to resemble Friday night's debate set, leaving the response to the C.I.A. report and to a biting speech by Mr. Bush to his running mate, Senator John Edwards. 
 But on Thursday he did not resist the opportunity to frame the Iraq issue in advance of Friday's debate. 
 To underscore the broader case he is trying to make against Mr. Bush's credibility, Mr. Kerry used the word ''truth'' eight times in as many minutes. ''You'll always get the truth from me,'' he vowed, ''in good times and in bad.''
 Asked about the section of the Duelfer report that suggested Mr. Hussein would have rebuilt his weapons if sanctions waned, Mr. Kerry said it ''underscores the failures of this administration's diplomacy.'' 
 Vice President Cheney, appearing in Miami, had the opposite interpretation, saying the report showed that ''as soon as the sanctions were lifted he had every intention of going right back'' to resuming his illicit weapons program. ''To delay, defer, wait wasn't an option,'' he said. ''The president did exactly the right thing.''
 Mr. Edwards similarly echoed his running mate, charging of the Bush administration in an appearance in Bayonne, N.J., that Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney ''are willing to say left is right, up is down.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush campaigned yesterday in Wausau, Wis. He said a new report justified his actions in Iraq. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)
 Senator John Kerry, speaking yesterday in Englewood, Colo., said Mr. Bush ''won't face the truth about Iraq.'' (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); DISARMAMENT (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); INDICTMENTS (70%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); TERRORISM (65%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Election Issues ; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (93%); DICK CHENEY (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%) David E Sanger; Jodi Wilgoren; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Charles Duelfer; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; L Paul III Bremer; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: WAUSAU, WI, USA (74%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



194 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: 20-Year Plan for City's Trash Entails $340 Million Renovation of 4 Marine Transfer Stations

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plan to ship the bulk of the city's residential garbage by barge rather than by truck was met with praise yesterday from several environmentalists and elected officials, but some questioned whether it was the cheapest and most efficient approach to handling the city's waste.
 The mayor detailed a 20-year plan, under which the city would renovate four marine transfer stations in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens by the end of 2007 at an estimated cost of $340 million. The city would use these marine transfer stations and private rail transfer stations elsewhere in the city to put each borough's trash into containers before it is shipped to landfills or incinerators outside the state. By depending on barges and rail, the city would phase out a truck-based system in which most of the 50,000 tons of commercial and residential trash generated daily is driven out of state to dumps and incinerators. 
 ''For environmental and economic reasons, this system is ultimately unsustainable,'' Mr. Bloomberg said during a news conference at City Hall to announce the plan. ''It puts serious strains on the quality of life in neighborhoods where transfer stations are located. And as nearby landfills reach their capacity, the city must send its solid waste to ever more distant locations at ever greater costs.''
 James T.B. Tripp, general counsel of Environmental Defense, an environmental advocacy group, described the plan as a huge step forward for the city. ''It provides the potential for phasing out old, polluting waste-transfer facilities that are concentrated now in low-income communities,'' he said.
 But Councilman Michael E. McMahon of Staten Island, who is chairman of the council's solid waste committee, raised questions about the plan's cost predictions.
 ''Under this plan, the city is getting four marine transfer stations for the price of eight,'' he said, pointing out that in July 2002, the mayor predicted that the renovation of eight waste transfer stations, as he originally proposed, would take about $240 million and two years to complete. ''Now we are looking at an estimate of around $340 million for the city to open only four stations. We need to take a close look at the overall cost of this plan.''
 Kate Ascher, executive vice president for infrastructure at the city's Economic Development Corporation, said that the city had lower cost estimates a year ago because it had not finished analyzing what renovating the marine transfer sites would require. She also said that the exact details on where the trash would go once it is placed on barges were still not available because the city was only beginning negotiations with the companies that would move the trash once it is shipped out by water.
 Under the plan, the city would not reopen a marine transfer station in Harlem, but it would reopen a transfer station on 91st Street on the Upper East Side. Most of Manhattan's trash would be trucked to an incinerator in Newark. The rest of Manhattan's trash would go to the Upper East Side marine transfer station.
 Peter Madonia, Mayor Bloomberg's chief of staff, cited financial and logistical reasons for choosing to reopen the Upper East Side transfer station and not the one in Harlem. The incinerator in Newark has enough capacity to handle only about 1,500 tons of trash daily from Manhattan, which produces about 2,300 tons daily, he said, and trucks hauling trash to Newark travel a shorter distance from Harlem than from the Upper East Side. 
 But the City Council speaker, Gifford Miller, who represents the Upper East Side, criticized the city's decision. ''The plan simply makes no geographic sense,'' he said. ''The city can't possibly claim that the 91st Street decision was based on having trucks travel the shortest distance.''
 The speaker pointed to the fact that under the current plan, trash from Washington Heights would go to Newark, while trash from Midtown would go to 91st Street. ''Do you think those are the shortest routes?''
 He also said that the operator of the plant in Newark told the City Council last year that he wanted to expand it if the city could guarantee to provide more trash.
 The mayor's plan also drew a skeptical reaction in Newark. ''It's wrong for the incinerator to make a long-term commitment to take on another state's waste,'' said Arnold Cohen, a member of the Ironbound Committee Against Toxic Waste, an environmental advocacy group in the Ironbound, a neighborhood next to the incinerator. ''Even the best of incinerators releases lead, mercury and other pollutants into the environment, and this plan would push things in the absolute wrong direction for communities that are already overburdened with toxins.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Bloomberg, right, explaining a plan to manage New York City's trash, with Councilman Michael McMahon, center, and other officials. (Photo by Keith Bedford for the New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDFILLS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); LAWYERS (63%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Trucks and Trucking; Barges and Scows; Waste Materials and Disposal

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (79%) Ian Urbina; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004



195 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Menlo Park Journal; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: An Inconspicuous Consumption Yields, at Last, to Market Forces

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

DATELINE: MENLO PARK, Calif. 

 BODY:
At the turn of the last century, the economist and social critic Thorstein Veblen -- coiner of the phrase ''conspicuous consumption'' -- railed against needless waste and the tendency of the rich to indulge themselves with expensive homes and superfluous possessions.
 So he might have appreciated the irony of the sales pitch for his soon-to-be-demolished home at 2006 Sand Hill Road, fabled avenue of Silicon Valley venture capitalists: ''Build Your Own Dream Home! Fabulous West Menlo Park Location.''
 The rustic two-story house, where Veblen lived the last few years of his life and died in 1929, was marketed by real estate agents as a ''tear down.'' It was sold to local developers in September for $1,115,000 by Charles Sims, 59, whose grandmother Ann Bradley Bevans Veblen, a sharpshooter and suffragette, was Veblen's second wife. The house is a charming but somewhat ramshackle affair reflective of Veblen's abhorrence of froufrou. 
 ''It's a horrible little house,'' said Mr. Sims, who nevertheless has kept a bronze and mahogany plaque of Veblen in his termite-infested living room. ''At first people half-think, 'Oh, how cute.' Then they think, 'Oh, my God.'''
 Mr. Sims, a biochemist, lost his job at a biotechnology company 18 months ago. His wife, Lyn, 55, a software project manager, was laid off four years ago. Mr. Sims grew up in the house, which Veblen moved into the year after he retired from the New School of Social Research in New York in 1926. Although Veblen's time in the house was brief, it holds deep and long associations with the economist, who, in addition to his radical theories, was known for romantic dalliances with students.
 The house has been described by the biographers Elizabeth Watkins Jorgensen and Henry Irvin Jorgensen as ''an arty, board and batten, two-story redwood shanty, with a movable skylight roof in one of the upstairs bedrooms.'' It was built in 1910 by Veblen's first wife, Ellen Rolfe Veblen, from whom Veblen was estranged.
 He began teaching at Stanford in 1906 and lived in a faculty cottage next to the property. Ellen Veblen built the house, mixing the concrete with her bare hands, according to some accounts, ''in order to keep track of her estranged husband's comings and goings,'' said Russell Bartley, a Veblen scholar and professor emeritus of history at the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee. 
 As if building a watchtower were not enough, she made a concerted and ultimately successful effort to have Veblen forced out of his Stanford teaching position, Professor Bartley said.
 Veblen eventually married Mr. Sims's vivacious grandmother, known to friends as Babe, who was a former student of his at the University of Chicago. His first wife hung on to the house and, upon Babe's death in 1920, offered to sell it to him for $2,000. He moved in in 1927. He died in an upstairs bedroom, which is now outfitted with Mr. Sims's computer and an exercise bicycle.
 Even after death, the house retained a simple, albeit rickety, Veblen aura, lending to this once unassuming neighborhood of oak trees and cottages an intellectual and bohemian cachet. In 1958, Ken Kesey, the author of ''One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest,'' moved into a cottage on Perry Lane next door. 
 ''Thorstein Veblen had lived there,'' Tom Wolfe wrote of the Perry Lane neighborhood (now called University Park) in ''The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test.'' ''So had two Nobel Prize winners everybody knew about though the names escaped them.'' 
 To Nancy Eldredge, who edits the University Park Temblor, a local newsletter, the impending loss of the house represents further homogenization of the neighborhood, where the number of original houses is shrinking steadily each year, fetching from $800,000 to $2 million for the land. ''It's a miracle that something so woodsy and rustic is still here,'' she said. Since she moved into the neighborhood nine years ago, she said, ''the hammers replacing the humble old with the big and shiny new haven't stopped.''
 The farmstead where Thorstein Veblen grew up in Nerstrand, Minn., not far from his alma mater, Carleton College, has fared better. It is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and has been preserved by a local economist and businessman. Mr. Sims and his wife plan to move to Chapel Hill, N.C., to seek new jobs. ''The house is rotting away,'' he said. ''But I don't see the flaws as dramatically as other people.''
 Keri Nicholas, the Coldwell Banker broker who sold the house, said that up to two houses might eventually be built on the site. For all its history, she said, the house is not suited to today's needs. ''For people with two kids, space is everything,'' Ms. Nicholas said. ''They want the kitchen-family room and the master suite.'' 
 Veblen would not exactly be rolling in his grave. When he died, he left specific instructions that he was to be cremated, ''as expeditiously and inexpensively as may be, without ritual or ceremony of any kind.''
 The impending demolition ''couldn't be more apt,'' said Sidney Plotkin, a professor of political science at Vassar and president of the International Thorstein Veblen Association, a scholarly group whose mission includes analyzing the implications of Veblen's work for the contemporary political economy.
 ''It would put a wry smile on his face,'' Professor Plotkin added. ''He understood that real estate was an exercise in inflated values that could vanish in a split second.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Charles Sims, whose grandmother married the economist Thorstein Veblen, has sold the house where Veblen died and where Mr. Sims lived. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)
 Veblen coined the phrase ''conspicuous consumption.'' (Photo by Bettmann/Corbis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (85%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); WRITERS (70%); DISMISSALS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (66%); VENTURE CAPITAL (56%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (51%) Economics; Historic Buildings and Sites; Demolition; Biographical Information; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Patricia Leigh Brown; Thorstein (1857-1929) Veblen

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (77%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); WISCONSIN, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (90%) Menlo Park (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004



196 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: Britain Feeling Pressed for Power

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: ASKAM, England 

 BODY:
From her home above this village near the sea, Norma White, a retired schoolteacher, contemplates a vista stretching from her ornamental pond to the distant blades of a huge wind turbine that represents part of Britain's huge quandary about its future energy supplies.
 With its North Sea oil and gas beginning to dwindle, its nuclear power generation set to be scaled back and its commitment to reducing greenhouse gases propelling a hunt for renewable energy sources -- like tides, waves or wind -- Britain is facing hard decisions that those in authority seem reluctant to take.
 The most passionate argument is swirling around the contentious prospect of expanding nuclear power, which produces about one quarter of Britain's electricity.
 ''Gimmicks such as wind turbines are hardly relevant,'' the newspaper columnist Simon Jenkins said recently. ''If Britain's leaders really believe in the apocalypse, only one technology is currently available to hold it at bay and that is nuclear power. All else is hypocrisy.'' 
 The government has been less forthright.
 In a major speech on climate change in September, Prime Minister Tony Blair said nuclear power remained an option to reduce carbon emissions -- a goal that Britain has adopted with enthusiasm under the Kyoto agreement to cut greenhouse gases. That seemed to suggest nuclear power was back on the agenda.
 Just a few days later, though, Patricia Hewitt, the minister of trade and industry, said there were ''no proposals now for building new nuclear power stations, but at some point in the future new nuclear build might be necessary if we are to meet our carbon targets.''
 Her remarks prompted the government's chief scientific adviser, Sir David King, to warn that time is running out. ''The government is saying we will come back and look at nuclear power when we've seen how well we are doing on energy efficiency gains,'' he told a conference recently. ''But the time scale to do that is relatively short. I do think five years or less is when we've got to make a decision.''
 The discussion is part of a wider and patchier debate across Europe since the Chernobyl disaster in 1986 provoked such wide opposition to nuclear power that no new reactors have been built since then.
 Some countries, like Italy, now call themselves nuclear-free zones. While France and Germany remain heavily dependent on nuclear power, Austria and Denmark have forsworn any use of it. 
 Elsewhere there are indications of a rethinking. Finland has ordered a $3.5 billion nuclear reactor, and opposition politicians in Germany have spoken about extending the deadline for closing nuclear plants past 2021. Sweden has generally delayed a promise made in 1980 to phase out nuclear power by 2010, but has now said it will close one of plant.
 In the United States, no new nuclear plants have been ordered since the Three Mile Island accident in Pennsylvania in 1979. Nuclear power contributes 20.3 percent of the country's electricity needs.
 At Mrs. White's home in this blustery northwestern corner of England, the energy debate is framed by the competing presence of wind farms on the hillsides and shores -- and a massive nuclear plant just up the road.
 ''We are an island battered by the wind,'' she said, explaining Britain's aptitude for renewable energy sources like winds, tides and waves. ''We are an island surrounded by the sea.''
 But a few miles north of here, also on the coast, stands the nuclear fuel reprocessing plant at Sellafield that has long raised concerns about the costs and hazards of nuclear waste. And just down the road is Barrow in Furness, the home port of two specialist ships that recently carried American plutonium to France, accompanied by protests about the perils of transporting nuclear materials in an era of global terrorism.
 ''The question with nuclear power is this disposal business,'' Mrs. White said. ''And there's always a huge question mark over it.''
 In some ways, the onetime abundance of Britain's North Sea oil and gas in particular allowed it to prevaricate on future energy supplies leaving others to commit themselves to different sources of energy.
 While Britain claims to be Europe's windiest nation, its wind farms produce only a tiny fraction of its electricity, and Denmark has taken a lead in turbine technology. And, while Britain is committed to reducing its reliance on nuclear power generation, France is deriving 80 percent of its electricity from nuclear power.
 According to the United Kingdom Offshore Operators Association, a body representing the offshore oil and gas industry, oil and gas production in British waters, which peaked at the equivalent of 4.5 million barrels a day in 1999, is likely to be 3.7 million barrels a day this year, falling to 2.5 million barrels a day in 2010. After two decades of self-sufficiency, according to official statistics, Britain now imports more oil than it exports.
 That has underscored the urgency of the current debate, leading some analysts to speculate that future supplies could be held ransom to developments beyond Britain's control.
 ''We will be ever more reliant in the future on importing gas and oil from politically sensitive areas such as the Middle East and Russia,'' said Ruth Lea, director of the Center for Policy Studies, a private research body, in a recent newspaper article.
 Environmentalists have long argued in favor of wind, wave and tide power, and the British Wind Energy Association, a private advocacy group, says the wind turbines sprouting offshore and on hillsides -- despite the protests of opponents -- will provide 8 percent of Britain's electricity supply by 2010.
 Some people argue that those alternative sources of power are not economically viable while the nuclear industry provides not only electricity, but also jobs. ''Sellafield has been a lifeline to this part of Cumbria,'' Mrs. White said. ''It has brought huge prosperity.''
 Indeed, said Ali McKibbin, a spokeswoman for BNFL, the state-owned company that runs Sellafield, over 10,000 people rely for jobs on the nuclear industry around the plant.
 Against that, wind turbines ''bring very little in the way of direct economic benefit,'' said Stuart Klosinski, a spokesman for Furness Enterprise, a local group seeking economic regeneration in an area that over the years has witnessed the decline of shipbuilding and its other industries.
 Many of the companies building windmills around here are foreign, from countries including Denmark and the United States, and do not provide long-term local jobs in the manufacture or maintenance of turbines, Mr. Klosinski said.
 The apparent swing toward nuclear power -- at least in public discussion --has been hastened by remarks from some prominent environmentalists casting doubt on Britain's ability to meet its own targets for replacing fossil fuels with renewable sources of energy.
 ''Many politicians hope that green, renewable energy will save the day. This is wishful thinking,'' said Prof. Ian Fells, chairman of the New and Renewable Energy Center, a private research organization.
 Against that, John Whitelegg, a Green Party specialist on sustainable development, said in a letter published in The Times of London, ''The nuclear option is fraught with environmental, human health, financial and terrorism risks.''
 Under its commitment to the Kyoto protocol, Britain is supposed to produce 10 percent of its electricity from renewable sources by 2010 -- more than three times the present level. That is supposed to rise to 15.4 percent by 2015 and to 20 percent by 2020, Mr. Blair said in September.
 In fact, though, the most effective allies of the antinuclear lobby may turn out to be not so much the advocacy groups and activists as the markets and investors' reluctance to sink money into new plants.
 In recent years, the mounting cost of nuclear waste disposal has forced both the state-owned BNFL and the beleaguered British Energy into reorganizations to ease the burden of closing aging plants and dealing with the problems of nuclear waste, expected to cost at least $90 billion. In September, the European Union approved a $6 billion bailout for British Energy to stave off bankruptcy.
 At present, BNFL operates four nuclear power stations, generating about 5 percent of Britain's electricity, and they are set to be closed by 2010, according to a BNFL spokesman. British Energy operates eight nuclear power plants in Britain, accounting for 20 percent of electricity supply, and set to be closed by 2023 -- a deadline that makes the current debate all the more urgent. 
 In the absence of new investment, the situation does not augur well for the nuclear industry, said Graham Meeks, an analyst at Climate Change Capital, which advises potential investors on the energy business.
 ''We will get a closure of the nuclear program by default,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A wind farm in Cumbria, England. Norma White, a retired teacher, top, lives near the wind turbines. (Photographs by Jonathan Player for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
A large nuclear fuel reprocessing plant at Sellafield has long raised concerns about the costs and hazards of nuclear waste. A storage pond holds bottles of spent nuclear fuel. (Photo by Jonathan Player for The New York Times)(pg. C12)Chart: ''As Oil Wanes, Nuclear Power Beckons''As Britain's supply of oil and gas from the North Sea wanes, the country is debating whether to expand the use of nuclear power, which supplies a quarter of the country's electricity and 9 percent of its overall energy.British oil and natural gas production5 million barrels of oil equivalent a dayGraph tracks oil and natural gas production from 1970 through projected 2010.Energy consumptionBy fuel source, 2003Nuclear: 9%Coal: 18%Petroleum: 32%Natural gas: 41%(Sources by United Kingdom Offshore Operators Association
 Department of Trade and Industry)(pg. C12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (87%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (71%); POLITICS (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); WRITERS (68%) Electric Light and Power; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Gas (Fuel); Windmills; Atomic Energy; Weather; Global Warming

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (57%) Alan Cowell

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH SEA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%) UNITED KINGDOM (97%); ENGLAND (92%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (79%); FINLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); DENMARK (79%); FRANCE (79%); AUSTRIA (77%); UKRAINE (56%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%) North Sea; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004



197 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: THE SANCTIONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Report Cites Profit by Americans In Sale of Iraqi Oil Under Hussein

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER and ERIC LIPTON; Scott Shane contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
Major American oil companies and a Texas oil investor were among those who received lucrative vouchers that enabled them to buy Iraqi oil under the United Nations oil-for-food program, according to a report prepared by the chief arms inspector for the Central Intelligence Agency.
 The 918-page report says that four American oil companies -- Chevron, Mobil, Texaco and Bay Oil -- and three individuals including Oscar S. Wyatt Jr. of Houston were given vouchers and got 111 million barrels of oil between them from 1996 to 2003. The vouchers allowed them to profit by selling the oil or the right to trade it. 
 The other individuals, whose names appeared on a secret list maintained by the former Iraqi government, were Samir Vincent of Annandale, Va., and Shakir al-Khafaji of West Bloomfield, Mich., according to the report by the inspector, Charles A. Duelfer. 
 The fact that these companies and individuals received oil from Iraq does not mean they did anything illegal, experts on the program said. Such allocations may have been proper if the individuals and companies received appropriate United Nations approval.
 In interviews on Friday, spokesmen for the oil companies and for the El Paso Corporation, which assumed control of the assets of a company, Coastal Corporation, once run by Mr. Wyatt, said the transactions had been legal. But each confirmed that they had received subpoenas from a federal grand jury in New York, which is investigating ''transactions in oil of Iraqi origin'' as part of the oil-for-food program, according to a federal financial filing by El Paso. 
 The largest of the allocations went to Mr. Wyatt, who the list said had received allocations totaling 74 million barrels. At the profit rates of 15 cents to 85 cents per barrel that were reported in the arms inspector's study, he could have earned $23 million. The names of the American companies and citizens who benefited from the vouchers were not included in the published report prepared by the Iraq Survey Group that was released Wednesday by the C.I.A., since the names of American individuals cannot be publicly disclosed under privacy laws. But the names were contained in unredacted copies given to the White House and to several Congressional committees. A copy of the unedited list was shown to The New York Times. 
 Tony Fratto, a Treasury Department spokesman, said United States sanctions on Iraq had prohibited American companies and individuals from interacting directly with Iraqi officials. But the oil dealers were permitted to get special authorization from the federal government to bid on United Nations contracts under the oil-for-food program. He said the agency was ''actively investigating'' whether the American entities and people circumvented that requirement.
 Reid Morden, the staff director of the Independent Inquiry Committee, the United Nations-appointed panel headed by the former United States Federal Reserve chairman, Paul A. Volcker, said his committee too was ''reviewing'' the new report ''to see if it helps us with our investigation.''
 The oil-for-food program, which was started in 1996, was intended to allow Iraq, in a closely monitored way, to sell enough oil so that the country would have the resources to buy food, medicine and to maintain certain critical public facilities.
 The program was abused when Saddam Hussein intervened, personally selecting individuals and companies to receive oil allocations. The allocations, also called vouchers, could be sold so that the recipient approved by Mr. Hussein did not have to trade the oil but could simply profit from the transaction. 
 Ultimately, Mr. Hussein began to demand kickbacks in return for these oil allocations, a requirement that some oil dealers were willing to honor given the large profit margins associated with oil trade.
 The proceeds may have been used by Mr. Hussein to pay for purchases of arms in violation of sanctions, the report says.
 Among American companies and citizens, Mr. Wyatt, who did not respond to messages left on Friday at his Houston office, was by far the largest recipient of oil allocations, as recorded on the secret list maintained by the Iraqi government, the report says.
 For decades, Mr. Wyatt has been a hard-driving -- and controversial -- oil merchant who did business with Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya and helped rescue hostages in Kuwait. In 2000, his Coastal Corporation merged with the El Paso Corporation. Mr. Wyatt is still a large shareholder in El Paso, but he is not an executive with the company, which last month received the subpoena related to the Iraqi oil deals. 
 Mr. Khafaji and Mr. Vincent, who both received much smaller allocations in the secret Iraqi list than Mr. Wyatt, could not be reached for comment. Mr. Vincent is an Iraqi-born businessman who headed Phoenix International.
 Mr. Khafaji financed a controversial film about Iraq by Scott Ritter, the former United Nations arms inspector who opposed the American-led invasion of Iraq.
 Rep. Christopher Shays, the Connecticut Republican who heads the subcommittee on government reform, which has been investigating the oil-for-food program, said his panel would ''follow the list wherever it takes us.''
 ''We want a full explanation of the involvement of all American oil companies and individuals who were involved in a thoroughly corrupt program,'' he said.
 Representative Henry J. Hyde, Republican of Illinois, chairman of the International Relations Committee that is also investigating the seven-year oil-for-food program, said in a statement that the Iraq Survey Group's report showed the ''full breadth of Saddam Hussein's corruption and manipulation of the U.N. Oil for Food program.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); GRAND JURY (65%); TERRORISM (59%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Terrorism; Oil-for-Food Program (Un)

COMPANY: EL PASO CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%) United Nations; Chevron Corp; Mobil Corp; Texaco Inc; Bay Oil; Central Intelligence Agency; Treasury Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (84%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (84%)

PERSON: Judith Miller; Eric Lipton; Oscar S Jr Wyatt; Samir Vincent; Shakir Al-Khafaji

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004



198 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: Europe Rejects U.S. Withdrawal From Pact on Aircraft Subsidies

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
The European Union said Friday that it would hold the United States to a 1992 accord that limits aid for Boeing and its European rival Airbus, responding two days after the United States announced its withdrawal from the agreement.
 The union wrote in a letter, sent after the two sides filed complaints at the World Trade Organization over aid to aircraft makers, that it expected the United States to abide by the agreement. Nullifying the accord is an effort by the United States to remove limits on subsidies to Boeing as the company develops the 7E7 Dreamliner, which it plans to deliver in 2008, the union said. 
 ''They haven't provided grounds for terminating the agreement, and therefore we don't think it's a substantiated termination,'' a commission spokeswoman, Arancha Gonzalez, told a news conference in Brussels.
 The dispute threatens to disrupt the financing each plane maker taps to develop aircraft. It also risks damaging the $400-billion-a-year trade relationship between the European Union and the United States. 
 The United States withdrew from the aircraft-financing agreement when it filed the initial W.T.O. complaint, claiming Airbus has received more than $15 billion in government loans since 1967, helping it overtake Boeing's lead in aircraft sales. Airbus is based in Toulouse, France. 
 The Europeans countered, arguing that Boeing, based in Chicago, has received $23 billion in aid since 1992.
 The agreement calls for Europe and the United States to meet at least once a year to raise concerns, Ms. Gonzalez said, and the United States has refused to meet for the last two and a half years, ''which seems to indicate that they didn't have any.''
 Richard Mills, a spokesman for the United States trade representative's office, said, ''The E.U. has not acted in accord with the agreement, notably in providing production aid to the A380.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); AIRLINES (71%) Airlines and Airplanes; Treaties; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%) European Union; Boeing Co; Airbus Industrie

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004



199 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 759 words

PERSON: Yogi Bhajan

HEADLINE: Yogi Bhajan, 75, 'Boss' of Worlds Spiritual and Capitalistic

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Yogi Bhajan, a former customs inspector at the Delhi airport who became both the spiritual leader to Americans following his version of the ancient Sikh religion and a highly successful entrepreneur, died Wednesday at his home in Espanola, N.M. He was 75.
 The cause was complications from heart failure, Sikh Dharma, his spiritual community, announced.
 Yogi Bhajan, whose full name was Harbhajan Singh Khalsa Yogiji, introduced an ancient and arduous form of Indian yoga, Kundalini yoga, to Americans. It is more active than the more common Hatha yoga and is practiced by thousands of people across America. 
 He also introduced Sikhism to this country, but with twists that startled Indian Sikhs. For one thing, yoga is a Hindu practice, not a Sikh one. For another, he insisted that his followers be vegetarians, though Sikhs are renowned as meat eaters.
 But he more than retained the Sikh tradition of being superb warriors: he mobilized his followers into a security company that guards federal courthouses and Army bases and takes in more than $1 billion a year.
 Others of the 17 businesses he helped create included yoga centers and real estate concerns, as well as his Golden Temple natural foods company, Yogi herbal teas operation, Soothing Touch health and beauty products and Peace natural cereals. One of his nicknames was ''the boss,'' The Miami Herald reported in 1998.
 ''The whole point of all these ventures is not for an individual to get rich, but to perpetuate the mission of the community,'' Avtar Hari Singh Khalsa, chief executive of Yogi Bhajan's 3HO Foundation, said in an interview with The New York Times last month.
 Mr. Khalsa had previously been a television executive in Hollywood, home to not a few of the guru's disciples. One of them, Gurmukh Kaur Khalsa, has drawn attention for teaching Kundalini yoga to pregnant celebrities like Madonna, Rosanna Arquette, Melissa Etheridge and Cindy Crawford. 
 Partly because of his great visibility, Yogi Bhajan inspired critics, including traditional Sikhs; the cult expert Rick A. Ross, who called him an ''absolute authoritarian figure''; and people concerned with his sometimes explicit sexual instructions.
 Sikhism originated in the Punjab in the 15th century and preaches the commonality of all religions, the virtue of hard work and a belief in one god. Sikh men in India carry side swords, and so do Yogi Bhajan's disciples, most of whom are Americans not of Indian descent.
 Yogi Bhajan met with two popes, two archbishops of Canterbury and the Dalai Lama. In New Mexico, he was important not least as a substantial contributor to both the Democratic and Republican parties; Gov. Bill Richardson ordered flags flown at half-staff in his honor.
 Harbhajan Singh Puri was born on Aug. 26, 1929, in the town of Gujrawala in what is now Pakistan. (He legally changed his name when he became a United States citizen in 1976.) The son of a medical doctor, he graduated from Punjab University with an economics degree in 1954, then worked for 15 years as a customs official.
 He told The Miami Herald that he had learned Kundalini yoga by having a helicopter lower him into the mouth of a cave in the Himalayas, where he kneeled for three days until the yogi master inside consented to teach him. He later claimed to be the only living master of Tantrism, a sexual form of yoga that men and woman practice together.
 He left India for Canada in 1968 and taught yoga in Toronto. He soon moved to Los Angeles, where he was attracted to youths caught up in psychedelic drugs. He called them ''searching souls'' and persuaded many of them to substitute meditation for LSD. Later, he set up a more general program to treat drug abusers.
 Yogi Bhajan founded Sikh Dharma, his center in New Mexico's Espanola Valley, in the late 1960's. Time magazine reported in 1977 that he required his disciples to work 12 hours a day on low salaries and skimpy diets. Similar reports appeared elsewhere over the years. 
 His followers say that his strictures transform their lives in a positive way and that any sacrifices are voluntary. 
 Yogi Bhajan is survived by his wife, Inderjit Kaur; his sons, Ranbir Singh and Kulbir Singh; his daughter, Kamaljit Kaur; and five grandchildren.
 He also left other families behind. He believed he could match couples by sensing the energy surrounding them as well as foreseeing their future. New West magazine in 1980 reported that sometimes in the middle of a lecture, he interrupted himself and declared to a pair of audience members, ''Oh, you two people are engaged.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Yogi Bhajan in Santa Fe in 1984. (Photo by United Press International) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SIKHS & SIKHISM (96%); YOGA (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); RELIGION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CULTS & SECTS (78%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CELEBRITIES (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); COSMETICS (71%); ARMIES (70%); MEAT FREE DIETS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%) Deaths (Obituaries); Sikhs; Biographical Information

MADONNA (79%); DALAI LAMA (58%); BILL RICHARDSON (57%) Douglas Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); DELHI, INDIA (73%) NEW MEXICO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

CATEGORY: Religion

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004



200 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

U.S. Created 96,000 Jobs, Fewer Than Forecast
Employment grew by 96,000 jobs in September, less than the 150,000 expected, presenting a weak picture of the economy in the last jobs figures to be released before Election Day.
 The official unemployment rate, which is based on a different survey, remained unchanged at a relatively low 5.4 percent, that was mostly because some 200,000 people stopped looking for work. [Page A1.]

Ellison Discusses Oracle Bid
Lawrence J. Ellison, left, the chief executive of Oracle, testified that he has had more discussions about lowering the $21-a-share hostile bid for PeopleSoft than raising the price. PeopleSoft has refused to consider a series of bids from Oracle, maintaining that Oracle is trying to buy the company at a low price so it can eliminate the competition. [C3.]

Stewart Reports to Prison
Martha Stewart, also known as prisoner No. 55170-054, arrived at the federal prison in Alderson, W.Va., at 6:15 a.m. to begin serving her five-month sentence. [C3.]

F.D.A. Pessimistic on Flu Vaccine
A day after a team from the Food and Drug Administration met with British regulators about their decision to quarantine flu vaccine made by Chiron, a California biotechnology company, the agency's acting commissioner said that he was pessimistic that it could be salvaged for use this winter. [A20.]

Congress Reviews Indecency Bill
A proposal to crackdown on indecent broadcasting was re-introduced in Congress. [C3.]

Citigroup Sues Italy Over Parmalat
Citigroup sued the Italian government, which must approve the restructuring plan of Parmalat, contending that the government has not ensured that the debt claims of Citigroup and other institutions are fairly evaluated. [C2.]

Krispy Kreme Inquiry Upgraded
The Securities and Exchange Commission has upgraded its inquiry of the financial reporting practices of Krispy Kreme Doughnuts into a formal investigation. [C3.]

Investcorp Buying Thomson Unit
The Thomson Corporation has agreed to sell its trade newspaper group to Investcorp for $350 million in cash. [C2.]

Europe Rejects U.S. Withdrawal
The European Union said that it would hold the United States to a 1992 accord that limits aid for Boeing and Airbus. Europe was responding two days after the United States announced its withdrawal from the deal. [C2.]

Stocks Fall on Weak Jobs Report
The three main stock market gauges dropped 0.7 percent or more on the weaker than expected jobs report for September, which raised doubts about the economy's strength. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 8.51 points, to 1,122.14. The Nasdaq composite declined 28.55 points, to 1,919.97, and the Dow Jones industrials dropped 70.20 points, to 10,055.20. [C4.]

Yukos Granted More Time
The Russian government gave Yukos a three-month reprieve on some of its Siberian oil drilling licenses. [C2.]

G.E. Profits and Revenue Increase
Third-quarter earnings at General Electric rose 11 percent and revenue jumped 15 percent as a rebounding economy and acquisitions drove a sharp increase in orders. [C3.]

Columbus Day Closings
Though stock markets are open Monday, the Treasury bond market, government offices and many banks are closed in observance of Columbus Day. They will reopen on Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,055.20 down 70.20Nasdaq composite -- 1,919.97 down 28.5510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.13% down 0.11The euro -- $1.2418 up 0.0122The dollar -- 109.42 yen down 1.77Graph tracks the daily closing of Standard & Poor's 500 since January.Yesterday: 1,122.14(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TAKEOVERS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); PRISONS (73%); SENTENCING (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (71%); ANTIVIRALS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); SECURITIES LAW (71%); VACCINES (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (67%); INFLUENZA (66%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (63%); EXECUTIVES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (91%); CITIGROUP INC (84%); THOMSON REUTERS CORP (64%); PARMALAT SPA (54%); KRISPY KREME DOUGHNUTS INC (53%); AIRBUS SAS (52%); BOEING CO (52%); OAO NK YUKOS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (91%); C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%); TRI (TSX) (64%); TRI (NYSE) (64%); PLT (BIT) (54%); KKD (NYSE) (53%); BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (91%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (64%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (64%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (64%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (64%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (54%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (54%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (54%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (53%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (53%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (52%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (70%); MARTHA STEWART (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004

 
