

801 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: WESTERN ALLIANCE; 
Debate Over Iraq Raises Fears Of a Shrinking Role for NATO

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 25 

 BODY:
Just two months ago, the 19 members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization vowed publicly to streamline the 54-year-old alliance into an institution ready and able to rise to the challenges of fighting terrorism and protecting against weapons of mass destruction.
 Now, with the military club momentarily paralyzed in a debate about its role in a possible war in Iraq, Europeans are wondering again whether the troubled alliance is destined -- in the post-cold-war world -- to become a second-string institution. 
 Ten days ago, the United States formally asked for help in the potential battle against Iraq. The sluggish reaction of America's 18 NATO allies is causing anxiety among members, who fear that the United States, already predisposed to work outside of multilateral institutions, will again lose interest in NATO. 
"If the U.S. neglects NATO, it's hard to see many of the things on the Prague agenda getting done," said one worried senior European official, referring to the aggressive list of alliance reforms ratified by NATO leaders in the Czech capital at a summit meeting in November.
Without American interest, NATO "would become a working institution like the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, but wouldn't be on the front line where key decisions are made," the official predicted. 
No one in the drab corridors of NATO's Brussels headquarters doubts that the alliance will eventually do what the United States wants, and many note that this is little more than the formal assistance provided by NATO during the Persian Gulf war in 1991. Back then, however, many members of NATO joined the larger multinational alliance forged by the current President Bush's father to drive Iraq from Kuwait.
This time, the United States is likely to have fewer battlefield allies, but wants NATO to send Patriot missiles and Awacs reconnaissance aircraft to help deter Iraq from attacking Turkey, for example. Other NATO nations will be expected to plug gaps left by British troops that might be diverted from peacekeeping activities in the Balkans. 
The American ambassador to NATO, R. Nicholas Burns, sought this week to calm any European fears about American reliance on NATO. "The United States believes NATO is vital for our interests in Europe," he said.
"We have suggested that NATO be prepared to take precautionary measures for the defense of Turkey should that be necessary and are confident that will occur," he said.
But four countries -- France, Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg -- have so far refused to reply to the American request while United Nations weapons inspections in Iraq are still under way.
"It will suggest that we see war as inevitable," said a senior NATO official.
With no serious military assets of its own other than a fleet of Awacs aircraft, and with its members' increasingly outdated armed forces outstripped by the United States, the alliance is regarded by many in Washington as more of an encumbrance than an enhancement to American military aims.
"To some degree, if NATO doesn't come out of Iraq looking good, it's going to be hard to make the case in Washington that it is an important partner," said a NATO official.
In Europe, too, NATO's importance is being questioned as that of the European Union seems to grow. The 15-nation union, which has developed a security policy of its own, is expected to take over NATO peacekeeping responsibilities in Macedonia this year and eventually to supplant NATO in other Balkan states.
Perhaps the biggest question mark over NATO is its purpose. During the cold war, the Soviet threat was a clear binding factor. Now, said Celeste A. Wallander, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington: "People pretend to agree on what threats are out there, but they don't agree really. They don't even agree on how to define transnational terrorism."
Many members worry that the planned expansion of NATO to 26 members will slow decision-making even further.
After American commitment to the alliance wavered during the early 1990's, it revived late in the decade when the United Nations balked at military intervention in the Balkans, and Washington used the alliance to fight there instead. But American generals came away frustrated by the experience of the Kosovo war in 1999, complaining that NATO's outdated forces and complicated bureaucracy slowed them down. 
The United States left the alliance largely out of the war in Afghanistan because it wanted to move quickly and could do the job alone.
Now, countries in Washington's camp say it is time for NATO to show it is ready to act on American requests for specific help against Iraq and on its Prague commitments.
"It's an opportunity to reposition NATO as a meaningful partner in the war against terrorism and as a useful U.S. ally," said a senior NATO official. "The risk is that the U.S. will be able to cobble together what they need in bilateral talks and NATO will again be left behind."
To encourage the alliance to respond quickly, the United States and its supporters have dropped suggestions that NATO aid in any postwar reconstruction of Iraq -- which presupposes an invasion -- and are focusing instead on plans for the defense of Turkey. 
"This is about protecting an ally," said Karel Kovanda, the Czech ambassador to NATO. "It is central to the alliance." 
But France, Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg insist that there is no rush and complain that Washington is trying to use the alliance for its own political gains.
"We advised the Americans not to make their request so early," said one NATO official this week. The leaking of Washington's request, he said, added to the appearance of pressure on member nations. He insisted that planning for Turkey's defense could wait until the threat was imminent.
"That planning is on the shelf," said another NATO official. "It will take two days."

GRAPHIC: Photo: R. Nicholas Burns is the United States ambassador to NATO. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (89%); COLD WAR (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); DESERT STORM (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); INSPECTIONS (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (61%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) SMITH, CRAIG S; BURNS, R NICHOLAS (AMB) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (87%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); IRAQ (94%); TURKEY (92%); BELGIUM (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (87%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); KUWAIT (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LUXEMBOURG (77%); GULF STATES (57%) IRAQ; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



802 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1480 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE MILITARY; 
U.S. Considers Limits on Role Of the Reserves

BYLINE:  By THOM SHANKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25 

 BODY:
Citing problems with the mass call-up of Reserve and National Guard forces, Pentagon leaders are rethinking the way America goes to war, even questioning whether relying on these citizen soldiers to perform some crucial duties hamstrings urgent military operations.
 Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld now openly expresses unhappiness with how military mobilizations -- for the war in Afghanistan, for domestic security and now for a possible war with Iraq -- have been planned and carried out since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. He says they caused needless hardship for too many members of the Guard and Reserve, for their families and for their employers. 
 "They're perfectly willing to be called up, but they only want to be called up when they're needed and for something that's a real job," Mr. Rumsfeld said. "And they prefer not to get jerked around and called up two or three or four months before they're needed, and then found they're not needed and sent back home with a 'Sorry about that.' " 
As the Pentagon orders the largest mobilization since the Persian Gulf war of 1990 and 1991, Gen. Richard B. Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said he was reviewing decisions dating to the post-Vietnam era that removed many important missions from the active-duty military, reassigning them to part-time forces.
"We need to look at that mix very carefully and see if we put, in some cases, 100 percent of our capability in the reserve component," General Myers said. The current approach has created a situation where "you can't even do some of the things you need to do day to day without calling up the reserves," he added.
For example, in devising war plans for Iraq, a desert nation that fired chemical weapons against Iran and its own population, planners had to wrestle with the fact that 100 percent of the Army's water supply battalions and 100 percent of its chemical brigades are in the reserve arm.
Almost all Army civil affairs personnel who help rebuild war-torn nations reside in the reserve arm, as do more than 80 percent of medical brigades and psychological operations units. Two-thirds of the military police battalions -- an increasingly important mission in an era of heightened terrorist threat -- are in the reserve arms.
Just as Army reservists and National Guard members have joined in operations in Afghanistan, the Balkans, Kuwait and South Korea, Air Force reservists and National Guard pilots patrol skies over Afghanistan and bomb Iraqi air defenses in the "no flight" zones.
Full-time Air Force crews fly 92 percent of the bomber assignments, a holdover from their cold war nuclear missions, but active-duty crews fly only 61 percent of fighter sorties, and fewer than half of the tanker, airlift and rescue missions.
The Naval Reserve provides 100 percent of the personnel for important maritime assignments, including logistics support squadrons and heavy logistics support, and for a crucial port security job called mobile inshore undersea warfare.
Similarly, military intelligence staffing has shrunk 27 percent since the gulf war, and reservists are essential to continuously staffing intelligence centers around the country that compile data and write analyses.
While American military victories in conflicts including Iraq and Afghanistan helped exorcise other ghosts of Vietnam, the heavy reliance on the National Guard and Reserve remains a legacy of the armed service's frustration with that war.
Angered that President Lyndon B. Johnson, and then President Richard M. Nixon, declined to call up the reserves during the Vietnam War for fear of generating greater opposition to it, Gen. Creighton W. Abrams, the Army chief of staff, shaped the post-Vietnam mix of active and reserve forces to make sure that when America next went to war with its new all-volunteer force, hometown America would have to go along too.
This dependence on reserve components only grew after the end of the cold war and the decision to cut the military. The Pentagon and Congress wanted to keep as much tooth in the active force as it could afford, and pushed missions in the logistics tail to the reserves.
But mass mobilizations in the past year and a half raised concerns at the Pentagon and, just as important, on Capitol Hill. Many look to streamline the system to more nimbly counter the unpredictable terrorist threat. Others are going further, asking whether the number of active-duty personnel is too small -- which translates directly into budgets -- if the American military cannot fulfill global commitments without relying so heavily on the Guard and Reserve.
"In the aftermath of Sept. 11th, we realized that the enemy was on the doorstep, that we would not have warning, might not have time to mobilize and train for a great length of time, because the world had changed," said Thomas F. Hall, the assistant secretary of defense for reserve affairs.
Mr. Hall has completed the first phase of a broad review that includes asking whether some of the capabilities now in the reserve component should migrate back to the active force. In the conflicts facing America, specialties assigned to the reserve component "are the kind of people we use every time," Mr. Hall added. "We are going to the well time and time again with the same units each year. We are simply going to have to change that."
Any suggestions to move skills in the reserves back to the standing force would slam against budget constraints capping the numbers of active-duty military.
The first draft of Mr. Hall's review has gone to the armed services for analysis and comment, and officials are hinting that it could be the Army -- which is providing the bulk of the Guard and Reserve call-ups -- to first feel the pressure. Some of Mr. Rumsfeld's senior advisers have advocated moving some of the Army's brigades -- or even divisions -- into the reserve to free up money for new technologies, or those personnel slots could now make room for moving the high-demand reserve specialties back into the standing Army.
"We are in line with the secretary of defense's intent," an Army official said in a statement. "It is premature at this point to specify the 'what' and 'who's.' We are studying how best to do this in a manner which creates efficiencies above our current 'Total Army' capabilities."
Charles Moskos, a Northwestern University professor who specializes in military sociology, advocates short-term military service that could take the burden off the reserves and save money. Per capita personnel costs in the military have doubled since the end of the draft, he said, and the offer of a short-term tour might attract young people wary of a long commitment. They could serve in important jobs that do not require specialized combat skills or bonuses, like military police.
The Air Force has tried to lessen the stress on its reserve component by first seeking volunteers for missions, said Lt. Gen. James E. Sherrard III, chief of Air Force Reserve, although that has not always been possible as the global campaign against terror has accelerated.
But cultivating its reserve arm is an economical way to fulfill Air Force requirements, he added, and to recapture investments made in training air and maintenance crews after they leave active duty. 
Lt. Gen. John B. Conaway served the first President George Bush as chief of the National Guard Bureau, overseeing the mobilization of nearly 80,000 National Guard members for service in the gulf war. About 265,000 Guard and Reserve members were summoned to duty then.
"The Guard and Reserves can do things for long periods of time in smaller numbers, and in large numbers for a short period of time," said General Conaway, now retired. "The rule should be that overseas, the active-duty folks are first in and last out. The Guard and Reserve should be last in, first out. That didn't happen in the desert the first time around. That was kind of abusing them. That was a lesson we learned."
Senior Pentagon and military officials say that should President Bush order America to war with Iraq, a number on the scale of the 265,000 mobilized in the gulf war would be called up for combat and combat support, for postwar patrols of Iraq and, in particular, for domestic security and force protection missions.
Senior military officers say Mr. Rumsfeld has scrutinized draft deployment orders closely and has redrafted or sent back for revision a number of recent orders for forces flowing into the Persian Gulf region.
Speaking this week to the Reserve Officers Association, Mr. Rumsfeld described a system in which deployment orders are "not managed skillfully in a single place," with a system that "moves people in big lumps -- meaning it's going to be imprecise as to who's needed, where, when."
Mr. Rumsfeld concluded, "So we're going to have a very careful look at that subject and do it a whale of a lot better next time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jing Song of the 693rd Quartermaster Company waited Wednesday at a Texas airfield to be sent overseas. (Associated Press)(pg. 12) Chart: "Relying on the Guard and Reserves"Since Sept. 11, 2001, 144,000 members of the National Guard and the Reserves have been called up in the partial mobilization for the campaign against terror. Almost 79,000 are currently mobilized, even as the military debates whether too many vital missions are performed by reservists. The National Guard answers to state governors during peacetime but may be summoned by the president during war, while the Reserves mission is to augment to the active military. The Current Call-Up, by StateNational Guard and Reserves mobilized as of Wednesday. Map of the United States shows the number of National Guard and Reserves called up from each state. FLA. Most activated: 5,102Does not include Coast Guard The Post Cold-War DrawdownThe size of the Guard and Reserves has not decreased from cold war levels as much as the size of the active military. Graph tracks the number of soldiers on active duty and Guard and Reserves since 1986. ACTIVE DUTY: -34.4%GUARD AND RESERVES: -25.4% Total Days Served Are ClimbingThe number of days served by all Guard members and reservists is estimated at 30 million the 2002 fiscal year. In 1991, it was 44.2 million. Graph tracks the number of days served by all Guard members and Reservists since 1986. An Increase in the Call-UpAs of Wednesday, 78,906 members of the Guard and Reserve were mobilized, an increase of 20,012 from the previous week. Graph tracks the total number of Guard and Reserves from the Air Force, Army, Navy and Marines, from 2001-2003. (Source: Department of Defense)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); AIR FORCES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); INFORMATION WARFARE (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TERRORISM (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (75%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (62%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (50%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; RESERVES (MILITARY); VIETNAM WAR 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%) NATIONAL GUARD (US) 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (75%) SHANKER, THOM; MYERS, RICHARD B (GEN); JOHNSON, LYNDON BAINES (1908-73); NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS (1913-94); ABRAMS, CREIGHTON W (GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



803 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Yellowstone Bison Thrive, but Success Breeds Peril 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK, Wyo. 

 BODY:
The bison here are sporting their heavy winter robes these days as they nuzzle their noses into the snow in hope of snagging bits of grass to tide them over until spring. The national park's robust herd of nearly 4,000 bison virtually guarantees that most visitors to Yellowstone will see a clump of them every time they round a bend.
 The bison have made a major recovery here after more than a century of slaughter that nearly drove them to extinction. But the bison may be a victim of their own success. The thriving herd -- the only free-ranging bison in the country -- is already 1,000 over what the park can bear, as estimated by a panel of the National Academy of Sciences. And a tangle of competing interests here in one of the nation's most revered public settings means an uncertain fate for these iconic beasts. 
 Depending on the weather, the bison could face intense competition for food. So far, the winter here has been relatively mild. But heavy snows would probably drive them to forage in lower elevations outside the park. 
Once they leave Yellowstone, the bison can be shot, and not just by Montana livestock officials, as in the past. The National Park Service has agreed to help the state control stray bison by joining in the killing. (Last year, the State of Montana, with the park service, shot 202 bison; so far this year, they have shot 4, but most of the killing comes in the early spring.)
At the same time, the cattle industry and federal agriculture officials are renewing their efforts to wipe out brucellosis, a disease carried by bison that does not harm them, but can spread to cattle.
One curiosity of this situation is that no one has confirmed any cases in the wild of brucellosis transmission to cattle from bison. But there has been confirmed transmission by elk, as occurred last year in Idaho. But since elk hunting is a favorite sport in this region, elk are not singled out for methodical slaughter as bison are. This leads some here to perceive a bias against bison that dates from the days of the Wild West, when the United States Army slaughtered thousands of bison as a way to undermine the Indians, who depended on them for food, clothing and spiritual sustenance.
In any case, cows that get brucellosis can abort their calves, potentially decimating the livestock herds that graze on national forest lands outside the park.
The cattle industry is determined to eradicate the disease among Yellowstone bison by 2010. Park officials oppose the plan, saying that it would mean slaughtering all the bison, a cure that would be worse than the disease. 
A group of 52 Indian tribes has offered its own solution. The tribes have offered to take the park's excess bison and re-establish them on Indian reservations. But Montana officials object, saying the Indians would simply be spreading brucellosis. The Indians say they would quarantine the animals for the required 18 months, through two birthing cycles, to make sure they are healthy. But no one is willing to let the animals go.
Watching every move is the Buffalo Field Campaign, a group that formed after a public outcry over a slaughter in the winter of 1996-97, when more than 1,000 buffalo were shot. Members of the campaign stake out the park boundaries from sunrise to sunset every day. If a bison leaves, they try to chase it back in.
As a result of these competing interests, everyone here is anxiously watching the winter sky to see how bad the weather will be and if the bison will start leaving en masse.
"We're expecting a pretty large migration out of the park," said Todd O'Hair, the natural resources policy adviser to Gov. Judy Martz of Montana. "We have substantially more buffalo than Yellowstone National Park has the resources to carry. We could see a lot of buffalo come out of the park, and if that's the case, we'll have to take them."
By historical standards, the bison are a tiny fragment of the millions that flourished until the white settlement of the Great Plains. Their near-extermination helped inspire the creation of Yellowstone, the nation's first national park, in 1872. But poaching and hunting continued, and by 1902, the Yellowstone herd had dwindled to 23 animals.
Over the last century, the size of the herd has fluctuated under different management plans that allowed for hunting and killings. In the winter of 1996-97, in addition to the buffalo that were shot by the government or shipped to slaughter, many starved to death, putting the toll at more than 1,300. After several lawsuits, the state and several federal agencies were forced into an uneasy truce and a management plan that has brought about the current recovery.
The plan, now in its third year, allows for more leeway in killing the animals outside the park once the herd inside reaches 3,000. Montana is to allow up to 100 bison that test negatively for brucellosis to leave the park. Once the number goes beyond that, officials are to chase the animals back into the park; failing that, they are to capture them and ship infected animals to slaughter. The meat and hides are distributed to social service organizations. Cooking kills the brucellosis bacteria.
The plan forces the National Park Service, whose principal mission is to protect Yellowstone's natural resources, to join in shooting strays.
Despite misgivings, park officials say the plan preserves the herd, even as individuals are sacrificed. "Our mission is to manage for a significant and sustainable population of free-roaming wild bison," said Suzanne Lewis, superintendent of Yellowstone. "It is not about managing individual animals, like if you have one bison at the San Diego Zoo."
Wayne G. Brewster, deputy director of the Yellowstone Center for Resources, admitted that killing bison was "tough to swallow" for the park service. But it did so, he said, because the plan provides for conservation of the herd and raises the tolerance level for bison on public land outside the park, and "because you can't stay at war forever."
But a new war looms over the proposal to wipe out brucellosis.
Dr. Valerie E. Ragan, assistant deputy administrator of veterinary services with the Agriculture Department, says the disease, which exists in bison only in Yellowstone and not in other herds, is a threat to both cattle and the economy.
If a state is brucellosis free, it can ship its cattle to other states without testing them first. But if two herds of cattle are infected, expensive testing is required. At the moment, cattle in only two states, Texas and Missouri, have brucellosis. Although the disease exists in Yellowstone, its federal jurisdiction allows Montana to call itself brucellosis free.
Dr. Ragan said that a number of innovative steps could be taken with vaccines, contraceptives and separation of bison and cattle at birthing time, but that these methods were imperfect and some bison would still probably have to be slaughtered.
"It's pretty obvious that if we're going to do anything to get rid of the disease long-term," she said, "we're going to have to make some herd-management adjustments for a time, then we can go back to natural regulation or whatever the park thinks is best."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bison that left the Yellowstone National Park this month in search of food are herded toward capture so that they can be returned to the park. (Ken Cole/Buffalo Field Campaign) Map of Wyoming and Montana highlighting Yellowstone National Park: The herd's size has fluctuated under different management plans. Graph: "Wandering Herd"Bison that leave Yellowstone National Park can be shot to prevent the spread of brucellosis, which can infect cattle. Yellowstone's bison populationEstimated size, in thousands 1902 -- Bison restoration begins 1917 -- Brucellosis first detected 1925 -- Culling of bison begins 1967 -- Culling ends 1996-97 -- Large exodus and deaths in severe winter Graph tracks Yellowstone's bison population since 1900. Data not available for all years. (Source: National Park Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (91%); MAMMALS (90%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (89%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (84%); WILDLIFE (78%); BUFFALO & BISON PRODUCTION (78%); SPORT HUNTING (78%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (77%); WEATHER (73%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (61%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (57%); ARMIES (50%) BISON; BRUCELLOSIS; LIVESTOCK; INDIANS, AMERICAN 

COMPANY: ELK AS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (82%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2431 MILLWORK (64%)

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (95%); WYOMING, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK; MONTANA

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



804 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Clashes Begin Near Forum As Security Clamps Down 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 25 

 BODY:
While participants in the World Economic Forum here nibbled on canapes and debated the consequences of a possible war in Iraq, police officers with tear-gas grenades and water cannons mounted a huge security operation to keep protesters away from the delegates, who included Secretary of State Colin L. Powell.
 At the railroad junction of Landquart, about 25 miles down the road from Davos, antiwar and antiglobalization protesters, some hiding their faces with ski masks and goggles, pelted the police with snowballs after the authorities refused to allow them to travel to Davos unimpeded. Police officers lobbed tear-gas canisters after protesters fired flares. German police officers reinforced the Swiss by firing water cannons into small knots of demonstrators. 
 At Fideris, halfway between Davos and Landquart, another standoff developed after a group of protesters who said they believed they had struck a deal with the police were ordered off Alpine railroad cars at a barrier and refused to submit to security checks.
In Davos itself, about 1,000 protesters who had agreed to stringent security checks -- some dressed in monkey suits -- beat makeshift globes with sticks to protest the process of globalization, of which the World Economic Forum, with its assembly of executives and political leaders, has become an emblem.
"Wipe out WEF," some chanted, using the organization's acronym. Others held up banners proclaiming, "No Business over Dead Bodies" and "Leave Iraq in peace, stop the Bush warriors."
The authorities are spending $10 million to protect the 2,000 participants at this Alpine resort. 
Officially, demonstrators have been given permission to protest here. But hundreds of police officers, backed by 300 soldiers, blocked off streets to prevent the protesters from approaching the forum's venue -- a concrete congress center that bears more than a passing resemblance to a military bunker. A helicopter clattered overhead.
Fearing possible terrorist attacks, the Swiss authorities have also threatened to shoot down any unauthorized aircraft over Davos during the gathering. About 20 presidents and prime ministers along with senior government officials and top executives are attending the forum.
For most of the past week, the protesters have been divided among those prepared to be searched for weapons on their way to Davos at the security barrier in Fideris and those demanding free access. Some of the hard-line group prevented other protesters from boarding trains to get here. The police said that some protesters had blockaded the tracks to prevent trains from leaving Landquart. By midafternoon, Davos seemed more like a police encampment than a conference site.
Within the congress center, however, participants focused more on the likely consequences of an American attack on Iraq. Mr. Powell and King Abdullah II of Jordan are both set to address the gathering tomorrow, on the eve of a critical Jan. 27 deadline for United Nations weapons inspectors in Iraq to report their findings.
One concern has been that fears of a war, which have already sent stock markets tumbling, will also sustain high oil prices, currently at a two-year record. But the Saudi oil minister, Ali Naimi, said there was no shortage of oil on world markets "and there should be no reason for prices where they are today."
Mikhail Khodorkovsky, chief executive of Russia's second largest oil company, Yukos, said in an interview that while there might be a spike in oil prices, "it won't be that big and it won't be that long."
Separately, Turkey's prime minister, Abdullah Gul, who was to meet here with Mr. Powell, suggested today that Turkish forces could cross into neighboring northern Iraq if an American-led invasion created a threat of disintegration.
With its own large and restive Kurdish minority, Turkey has long resisted a separate Kurdish state in northern Iraq and says it will protect the Turkmen minority there. "Not only the Turkmens, but also the Kurds are our relatives there," Mr. Gul said at a news conference. "We want to protect them if there is a massacre there." 
"Definitely, we do not want to see a divided Iraq in the region," he said in reply to a question about whether Turkish troops would entering northern Iraq, as they have in the past.
Mr. Gul declined to say publicly whether Turkey would permit American ground forces to carry out an invasion from Turkey.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A policeman checked masked anti-globalization protesters on a train to Davos, Switzerland, yesterday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); TRAINS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); RIOTS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); TRENDS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ARMED FORCES (64%); HELICOPTERS (62%); TERRORISM (62%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (94%)

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (93%) SWITZERLAND (94%); IRAQ (94%); JORDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%) DAVOS (SWITZERLAND)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



805 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: YACHT RACING; 
Innovative Thinking Is the Cup Currency For New Zealand

BYLINE:  By WARREN ST. JOHN 

DATELINE: AUCKLAND, New Zealand, Jan. 25 

 BODY:
The defining moment of Team New Zealand's current America's Cup defense took place not on the water or at some high-tech tank-testing facility, but at a bare-bones motel on the island of Waiheke off Auckland.
 It was in the summer of 2000, just a few months after New Zealand's 5-0 sweep of the Italian team Prada in the America's Cup that year. Crowds jammed Viaduct Harbor to cheer the team as national heroes when they won the Cup in February. But by summer, it had all come apart. 
 Team New Zealand was in debt, while the lineup for the next Cup included men with bottomless pockets: the billionaires Larry Ellison, Ernesto Bertarelli and Craig McCaw. 
To make matters worse, those billionaires had hired 30 of Team New Zealand's best sailors, including Russell Coutts, the two-time Cup-winning skipper, and his tactician, Brad Butterworth, who joined Bertarelli's Swiss team, Alinghi.
So with a new-age management consultant as a guide, the Kiwi team went to Waiheke for two days of exercises aimed at exorcising what the yacht designer Clay Oliver called "all the old baggage." The consultant encouraged the yachtsmen to build cardboard dioramas representing a farewell to the past and an embrace of the future. 
Teams collaborated in a contest to build contraptions that could protect eggs from breaking when dropped. There was some role playing and a lot of talking -- far-out stuff to Kiwis unfamiliar with touchy-feely American team-building seminars. But they loosened up, and at the end of the first night, Team New Zealand's chief executive, Ross Blackman, played his guitar and sang into the early hours. 
"At the end of the day we had gotten it out of our system and were ready to move on," Oliver said. "In retrospect, it was very important. We were finally getting comfortable with 'This is the new team and we are going to go somewhere,' and 'Let's go out and jump to a new curve.' "
"Jump to a new curve" became the mantra for Team New Zealand's designers for several months. Though the phrase smacks of new-economy earnestness -- a variation on "thinking outside the box" -- it had real implications for the way an America's Cup team operates. 
Syndicates typically improve their yachts through a years-long process of incremental refinements -- a tweak here, a nudge there -- followed by weeks of computer analysis to see what, if anything, the tweak actually accomplished. But without the top-flight sailors who had won the Cup in 1995 and 2000, the New Zealand team could not rely on nuanced changes. It needed something big. 
The result is the most radical design innovation for an America's Cup boat since Australia II's winged keel in 1983: the Hula (short for hull appendage), a 20-foot-long clamshell that attaches beneath the back of the boat and has the effect of lengthening the waterline, which in theory should make a boat faster. When the Hula was unveiled at a ceremony in late December, it was a sensation, the yachting world equivalent of the Segway, the high-tech scooter. 
Bruce Farr, the Oracle-BMW designer, mused that the Hula had gotten its name because it danced around the rules. But despite widespread skepticism that clamping a big carbon fiber toboggan underneath your yacht would pass muster with America's Cup measurers, Alinghi said it would not protest. Alinghi, it turns out, had tried to build an underwater toboggan of its own, but could not get the contraption to work.
Actually, the Hula is only the most prominent of a series of developments by the Kiwi team that have served to take the Cup competition to even greater levels of obsessiveness. Team New Zealand tried to jump the curve wherever it could. 
"We figured there might be opportunities in every aspect of the campaign," said Tom Schnackenberg, a nuclear physicist-turned-sailor for Team New Zealand. "I suppose the other thing is that we set pretty high goals. We have a burning ambition."
In the past, it took the team an hour and a half to launch its yachts each morning. The team came up with a new skirting method and simplified crane system that cut that time to 30 minutes, which meant more time on the water.
A team physiologist takes blood samples from the crew twice a day using a new New Zealand-developed machine that draws blood through the skin, without needles. The needle-less approach allows for easy monitoring of protein and hormone levels, which team doctors then correlate with information from questionnaires about sailors' daily routines. Sailors are then told what they should eat when, and how long they should sleep.
And there are other innovations on board: a superlightweight boom, a four-spreader rig, an extra-long bulb at the bottom of an extra-thin keel.
The net gain from all this curve jumping? A second or two a per mile, maybe.
But to an America's Cup skipper, especially a first-time Cup skipper, any advantage helps. Team New Zealand's helmsman is 29-year-old Dean Barker, a Coutts protege, who was ceremoniously handed the helm in the last race of the match with Prada in 2000. Kiwis always expected to see Coutts and Barker sailing together in this America's Cup; they just assumed it would be on the same boat. When racing for the Cup starts Feb. 15, mentor and student will enter the starting box as adversaries.
"He was probably as mature back then as he is now," Schnackenberg said of Barker, "but he wouldn't have had the opportunity to express it as much. As far as leading the team, he's not a man to get up and make speeches. The team doesn't work that way. Dean's not one to try to stamp his personality on the team. He just does his job."
Part of a Team New Zealand skipper's job is courting sponsors. Without a single billionaire backer, Team New Zealand has had to go out and scrap for every dollar. Barker spent much of his time leading up to the regatta giving sailing clinics for sponsors faraway on the South Island. The team does not have to pay to house its crew -- most are locals who bring their own sandwiches on the boat each day -- but its budget is still less than half of the $85 million Ellison and Bertarelli are thought to have spent. All the more reason to cut corners and jump curves.
The difficulty of being the America's Cup defender is not knowing how those innovations stack up against the competitors'. Alinghi has been racing since October -- the team lost only 3 races out of 26 on the way to the Cup final -- while Team New Zealand has been practicing. The team invited a few reporters along for a training session last week and had trouble with two spinnaker hoists in a moderate breeze. A fast boat could buy a margin for such errors, but Team New Zealand only knows how fast it is against itself. 
"The sailing team prepares on the assumption that you'll be racing an even boat," Schnackenberg said. "If it turns out you do have a fast boat, that's good news. If you have a slow boat, there's not a lot you can do about it but be dignified about losing." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Team New Zealand, the America's Cup defender, was training while the challengers were racing. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOAT RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (79%); BOATING & RAFTING (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); BOAT BUILDING (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (64%) BOATS AND BOATING; AMERICA'S CUP 

PERSON: ERNESTO BERTARELLI (73%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (53%) ST JOHN, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (90%) NEW ZEALAND (98%); UNITED STATES (95%) NEW ZEALAND; SWITZERLAND

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



806 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: ASIAN ARENA; 
Shifting Loyalties: Seoul Looks to New Alliances

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Jan. 23 

 BODY:
For five decades, Washington's leadership in its alliance with South Korea went unchallenged. With 37,000 American troops in South Korea, many of them along the world's most heavily armed frontier, the United States called the tune and this country followed along.
 With startling speed over the last several weeks, that pattern has dissolved. The breach between Washington and Seoul could be seen on Wednesday, when John R. Bolton, the under secretary of state for arms control and international security, forcefully announced that he had forged a consensus that the issue of North Korea's nuclear weapons programs should be referred to the United Nations Security Council. Within hours, South Korean officials said just as forcefully that they had agreed on no such thing. 
 The talk in Seoul in recent weeks has been of emerging from the shadow of the United States and of refocusing South Korea's foreign relations within its own region. Moreover, in violation of the ultimate taboo, there have been increasingly strong hints of interest here in a substantial reduction of the American military presence.
In one recent speech, President-elect Roh Moo Hyun, whose election in December has driven much of the talk of change, said: "Although we don't know if it might take 10, 20 or 30 years, someone has to consider an independent defense. Senior military officials have to prepare a plan for a special emergency situation when the U.S. Army moves away."
Washington appears to have been taken aback by the changing language in Seoul, just as it was by the weeks of anti-American demonstrations that swept this city during the election campaign and its aftermath. Looking back, Western diplomats and Korea analysts said that plenty of warning signs pointed to serious problems in the relationship, but that the United States, fixated on Iraq and inflexible in its approach to North Korea, paid them little heed.
Now, American experts in East Asian affairs say, pique over South Korea's sudden assertiveness and umbrage over the long season of protests against the American troop presence have caused people in the Pentagon, and elsewhere in Washington, to contemplate a smaller force here.
"There are major reports under preparation in the Pentagon about how to transform our presence," said Kurt M. Campbell, a former deputy assistant defense secretary who is an East Asia specialist at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. "Generally speaking, it is hard for our senior military people to believe that we are not loved. We are doing God's work, and if people don't appreciate it there is something wrong with them."
Some regional diplomatic analysts go so far as to compare the shifting relationship between the two countries to a runaway train, and to criticize each side for losing sight of its long-term interests, failing to hear its ally and falling prey to emotionally seductive ideas without thinking through their potentially monumental consequences. These analysts say the Bush administration is conspicuously lacking in high-level Korea experts, while Mr. Roh has never been to the United States.
On the South Korean side, a weariness with being the seemingly always put-upon junior partner in a three-way alliance that includes Japan has driven plans for closer relations with China, a country with which Koreans have deep cultural links. 
While no one here speaks of cutting economic ties with the United States, the vision Mr. Roh brings to office is one of a regional economic community, or union, much as in Europe. Significantly, it would include North Korea, which Washington has been working hard to isolate because of its weapons programs. Inevitably, China would be the community's superpower.
In immediate diplomatic terms, whatever Washington has in mind, Mr. Roh seems determined to accelerate the engagement strategy toward North Korea that was begun under the current president, Kim Dae Jung, and has been called the sunshine policy. Already, Mr. Roh plans to invite the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il, for a second North-South summit meeting, and to seek ways to establish military confidence-building by scaling back the armed forces and examining each other's drills.
"If North Korea responds to the outside world and abandons its nuclear program, South Korea will reward them beyond their own expectations," a senior adviser to the president-elect said this week. 
Scott Snyder, Korea representative of the Asia Foundation, a San Francisco-based research group that is partly financed by the United States government, said there had been a "paradigm shift" that revolved around two issues: "a changed South Korean view of the North, since sunshine policy, and a changing view of China."
If South Koreans are feeling more self-confident, many experts warn against allowing giddiness to lead the country down the wrong path.
"This is a real misreading of history," said Victor D. Cha, a Korea specialist at Georgetown University in Washington. "U.S.-Japan-Korea was a pretty winning formula for South Korea's development. Koreans are feeling assertive and are not in a mood to acknowledge this at the moment, but to place their bets on China, whose domestic institutions are not exactly transparent or stable, is wishful thinking."
If anything, experts in Northeast Asian affairs are more scathing in their reaction to the calls in the United States to simply reduce the number of American troops here or withdraw them altogether.
Less than four years ago, William S. Cohen, then the defense secretary, created a stir here when he proclaimed in a speech that the United States would like to retain a military presence in Korea, even after the North and South eventually unified. Mr. Cohen's remarks offended some Koreans at the time, but regional experts say they grew out of a sober assessment of the United States' interests in this part of the world. 
In terms of military doctrine, the 37,000 American troops here serve as a tripwire, meant to dissuade a North Korean attack more than to fight a war. Their presence radiates symbolic value, however, throughout the region, especially toward a fast-rising China. 
"This administration came into office warning about the rise of China, and we are stumbling into a situation where American interests throughout East Asia risk being compromised," said Joel Wit, a former State Department official who helped negotiate the 1994 arms control agreement with North Korea. "If America is seen as playing an active, positive role, it will be possible to contain these trends. That means dealing with the North Koreans in a way that tells the South Koreans that we have their interests at heart, too," Mr. Wit said. "In the absence of that, there will be more of a drift away from the United States."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anti-American demonstrations, like this one yesterday in Seoul, have added to strains in South Korea's relationship with the United States. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (55%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



807 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: The Fly Who Came In From the Cold 

BYLINE:  By Marcia Bartusiak; Marcia Bartusiak's most recent book is "Einstein's Unfinished Symphony: Listening to the Sounds of Space-Time."

 BODY:
 WINTER WORLD
The Ingenuity of Animal Survival.
By Bernd Heinrich.
Illustrated. 347 pp. New York:
Ecco/HarperCollins Publishers. $24.95.
 IT is snowing here in New England as I write this -- a perfect time to slip under a comforter and enter Bernd Heinrich's "Winter World." "It is getting light now," he writes. "The snowflakes continue their soothing rustle on my jacket. . . . I look down and see a blade of sedge wiggle. A tiny load of snow slides off. A flash of movement. A moving black dot. It's the eye of an immaculately white weasel. . . . The weasel stands up, extending its slender six-inch body toward a tiny rustle, looks in that direction, then dashes off. In seconds it is back, standing tall and looking at me. Fearless, focused, improbably alert and powered with unbounded restless energy, it soon again disappears from sight." A biologist at the University of Vermont and the author of such notable books as "Bumblebee Economics" and "Mind of the Raven," Heinrich enthralls us now with this new, captivating and at times surprising examination of animal survival in the coldest of seasons, when woodland creatures face "the anvil of ice" and "the hammer of deprivation."
We look out of our frost-covered windows and often perceive only a sun-deprived and barren landscape. Heinrich, who combines his keen scientific eye with the soul of a poet, glimpses an entirely different realm, one filled with wondrous activities both above and below the seemingly lifeless countryside. There are squirrels flying, white-furred hares scampering, snow fleas huddling, wood frogs enduring icy suspended animation, disoriented honeybees dive-bombing into the snow and a variety of birds constantly foraging for seeds and insects. Heinrich teaches backyard naturalists how to observe.
Take the case of the vole, a type of short-tailed mouse. In the winter, voles inhabit the "subnivian zone," the network of caverns that is generated within a snowpack. There temperatures remain within a degree or two of the freezing point, warm enough for the voles to wander through the latticework and gnaw at the bark of young trees right up to the snow line. Cozily ensconced, their tummies full, they become reproduction superstars. A well-fed vole can bear 17 litters (up to 85 babies) over a year's time. "The young females . . . can produce their own litters in one month. At such reproductive potential, it would not take long for them to carpet the earth," the author notes. "Instead, the voles' role in the economy of nature is . . . to convert vegetation into the protein-rich dietary staple of many predators that rely on them in winter, principally fox, weasels, fisher, coyote and bobcat." 
Heinrich's descriptions of his travels in the forest are intoxicating, but he's a realist about the web of life. Nature has a strategy, and it's not necessarily a benign plan. Life is a battle: for food, for warmth, for shelter, for the time to reproduce and continue the gene line. 
These struggles can be traced back billions of years to earth's first "winter," when our planet was cooling down from its tumultuous birth. Bacteria, initially accustomed to boiling temperatures, gradually had to adapt to more chilly surroundings. Some took symbiotic refuge in other cells, turning themselves into the mitochondria that now serve as a cell's power source within the animal kingdom. Over the succeeding eons, animals evolved a variety of techniques to deal with the cold, from flocking and hibernation to hoarding and fattening up. Each chapter in the book is a gemlike essay (beautifully illustrated with the author's own line drawings) that deftly discusses one of these tactics. The accounts are based on animals observed near Heinrich's home in Vermont or around his rustic cabin in western Maine. From these distinct settings he sheds valuable light on the more general principles of ecology and animal physiology. 
A theme that runs throughout the book is the evolutionary heritage of humankind. Our domestic concern for the perfect color and thickness of carpet in a living room is simply the continuation of behavior that insects, birds and mammals have been performing for millions of years. An insulated home is not much different from the nest of a gray squirrel. Inside the nest's globe of twigs, which looks deceptively makeshift from the outside, are layers of dried oak leaves "as watertight" as "interlocking shingles." Finely shredded bark serves as soft upholstery. 
As he goes along, Heinrich continually poses questions. A contemplation of the insulating properties of feathers has him wonder about their evolutionary development. He hypothesizes that flat feathers first emerged as protection from rain, a size and shape that naturally led to flight. And curious about the winter survival of flies that gather inside his cabin windows, he simply dabs red paint on their backs and releases them outside to see if they return.
The ways in which animals can hibernate provide the most amazing stories. What is death to a snapping turtle when it can bury itself in the mud below an ice-covered lake, taking no breath of air for months at a time? Certain caterpillars in the high Arctic stay frozen throughout the winter; after some 14 years of freezing and thawing, they turn into adult moths, mate and lay eggs, only to die a few days later. Bears are a medical miracle. They can forgo drinking water and urinating for up to five months, suffering neither bone loss during the torpor nor hardening of the arteries from their high-fat diet. They are nature's champion couch potatoes. 
The cold, in fact, can prolong life in the wild. Bats need to be chilled in the winter to conserve their energy until spring. "The main danger" to some temperate zone bats waiting out the winter in their traditional caves, Heinrich says, "is not quick freezing, but slowly starving to death in temperatures above 10$(0$)C when their elevated resting metabolism eventually exhausts their fat reserves by the end of the winter." 
Heinrich is at his most lyrical when writing on the kinglet, a tiny olive-colored bird with a brilliant-colored crown that has captured his fancy since childhood. Only the size of walnuts, kinglets are the ultimate winter survivors. They must eat three times their body weight each day to build up the reserves that allow them to keep warm by shivering through the frigid night. (This fact alone now spurs me to keep my bird feeder full when temperatures drop.) Their fortitude is so endearing that I can easily accept Heinrich's one slide into anthropomorphism, at the close of his book: "Whenever I've watched kinglets in their nonstop hopping, hovering and searching, seen their intimate expressions and heard their constant chatter . . . I've felt an infectious hyperenthusiasm flow from them, and sensed a grand, boundless zest for life. . . . Like us, they are programmed for optimism. . . . When I'm in the warmth of my cabin and hear gusts of wind outside that moan through the woods and shake the cabin on wintry nights, I will continue to marvel at and wonder how the little featherpuffs are faring. They defy the odds and the laws of physics, and prove that the fabulous is possible." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Crossbills dine by extracting seeds from pine cones all winter long. (From "Winter World") 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ANIMALS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); WRITERS (89%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (88%); AVALANCHES (75%); BIOLOGY (73%); CELEBRITIES (72%); BIRDS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



808 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Come Back, New Economy 

BYLINE:  By John McMillan; John McMillan teaches in the Stanford Business School and is the author of "Reinventing the Bazaar: A Natural History of Markets."

 BODY:
 WHY ECONOMIES GROW
The Forces That Shape Prosperity
and How We Can Get Them Working Again.
By Jeff Madrick.
242 pp. New York:
Basic Books. $26.
 "THE market is rational; the government is dumb." Representative Dick Armey says this is his favorite axiom. Jeff Madrick, the editor of Challenge, an economics magazine, would disagree. While markets are the primary source of our prosperity, he argues in "Why Economies Grow," we rely on the government as well. Creating the Internet wasn't dumb. Nor was building the Interstate System of highways. These and other government initiatives accelerated America's economic growth by improving communication and transportation and thus widening the reach of markets.
What does it take for the economy to grow? For many in the 1990's, the answer was easy. Just get the government out: cut taxes; privatize; deregulate. Now, corporate scandals, dot-com meltdowns and recession are leading many to question that simple prescription. In our hangover from the 90's binge, this book is timely, pointing the way to national sobriety. The 90's weren't all they were cracked up to be, Madrick says. The ballyhooed economic growth wasn't especially impressive: in the first half of the decade there wasn't much of it, and the fast growth of the second half was actually slower than in the humble 1950's.
Did the "new economy" bring revolutionary ways of doing business? The chief executive of Cisco Systems, John T. Chambers, declared, "This is truly the second industrial revolution, and it will change every aspect of people's lives." Madrick, by contrast, largely attributes the late 90's growth to a quite mundane cause: a fall in the price of computer chips.
Despite the 1990's boom, Madrick warns us that "the nation's problems are far from solved. Income inequality is high, male wages have grown little and have fallen for many, our child poverty is the worst in the developed world and the quality of the public school system is highly unequal." Returning to sustained growth is the only solution. We need, he says, to "undertake a broader approach to enhancing this growth" -- changing not just policies but fundamental attitudes to government. 
Madrick begins by diagnosing and ranking the causes of growth. The main driver is expanding markets. Second is accessible information, for markets depend on it. Government also has a role to play in setting conditions conducive to growth; public investment is needed for education, transport, communications, research, child care and health care.
Madrick comes to these conclusions from his reading of the history of the Western world, but an alternative source of insights into growth, and one that he does not use, is statistical comparison across countries. Huge data sets, covering many countries over decades, have now yielded a deeper understanding of economic growth. The results support Madrick's arguments. Growth is faster, for example, in countries that have the rule of law, allocate mostly by markets and invest in public infrastructure.
More important, these studies show the multiplicity of the sources of growth. It isn't just a matter of securing property rights, as some will tell you. It isn't just education. It isn't just finance. It isn't just technological innovation. It is all of the above. A striking finding from the cross-country analyses -- underscoring Madrick's essential thesis -- is that growth tends to be faster in countries with a more even income distribution. Inequality slows growth -- because it can generate political instability, and because much of the nation's talent goes to waste. How many potential Bill Gateses are trapped among India's 300 million illiterates?
From examining the multifaceted sources of growth, Madrick turns to recent economic trends. America's late-90's growth was a mere blip, he argues. By historical standards, the United States experienced slow growth from the 1970's to the mid-90's. 
The key difference Madrick sees between slow and fast growth is in the kinds of goods being produced. What made the American economy strong was mass production. Slow growth came when niche products took over. Automakers, for example, facing the challenge of Japanese imports, started offering a broad range of models -- at the cost of economies of scale. "Meeting the needs of niche markets was not as given to efficiencies as providing standardized products to mass markets."
Growth returned in the mid-90's, Madrick contends, with a return to the pre-1970's style of production. With the "exciting new computer-based products, such as Windows or AOL," standardized goods regained dominance. Because they led to "enormous economies of scale," he says, they brought the productivity growth that results in sustained economic growth. 
But at this point Madrick's argument takes an odd turn. After pinning the blame on niche markets, he goes on to say it is unfortunate that we are in "an age of consumer choice," with "more variety and higher quality." Having a rich assortment of goods is a bad thing. We would all be better off, he apparently believes, in the world of Henry Ford, where you could buy any color Model T as long as it was black. 
This peculiar perspective is not the only problem with Madrick's big-is-beautiful notion. The connection he draws between economies of scale and growth will look suspicious to any Economics 101 teacher. Economies of scale bring a one-shot productivity gain. Growth entails continuing productivity gains. What is the logic that links economies of scale to growth? The book simply asserts such a link; it offers no theory or evidence. 
Still, this aspect of Madrick's argument does not affect his policy recommendations, which contain three parts. First, we need a further spread of communications for expanding markets, critical to renewed growth. Second, since inequality is counterproductive, aid to the poor would promote growth. Third, public investment in education, transportation and research is needed if the market economy is to be fully productive.
Madrick is pessimistic. He does not think that the United States will adopt this program, for it conflicts with Americans' most deeply held convictions: suspicion of government and distaste for taxes. Since his prescription for growth is probably correct, we can only hope that his pessimism turns out to be unwarranted. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (75%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); CHILD POVERTY (61%); SCANDALS (53%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



809 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1768 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
How Downtown Can Stand Tall and Step Lively Again

BYLINE:  By SASKIA SASSEN; Saskia Sassen is an author and a professor of sociology at the University of Chicago. Her latest book is "Global Networks, Linked Cities" (Routledge, 2002).

 BODY:
SEPT. 11 struck at one dream of urban planners: that the best way to make a city dense is to make it tall. Many people said terrorism had spelled the end of the skyscraper. Indeed, the whole notion of concentrations of high-rise buildings has long been under attack. For the last 20 years we have seen treatises -- some excellent, some tiresome -- that tell us why spatial agglomeration no longer carries benefits for businesses and markets; that global telecommunications have made it unnecessary for financial communities to assemble physically in one place.
 We might wonder, therefore, about the verticality and density in the proposals presented last month for the redevelopment of the World Trade Center site. We might also ask how are we to reconcile these projects with an office space vacancy rate of more than 15 percent, even after millions of square feet were destroyed? How are we to reconcile these projects with the fact that many companies have left for Midtown Manhattan, Connecticut and New Jersey? 
 These are valid points, but they get at only half the story. 
The other half is that strategic, creative activities -- whether economic, cultural or political -- thrive on density.
In a global economy, with uncertain markets and changing conditions, the most advanced and speculative sectors need concentrations of resources -- talent, management, technological infrastructure and buildings. They need dense environments where information does not simply circulate but gets produced.
The geography of the global economy consists of both world-spanning networks and these concentrations of resources, as provided by about 40 global cities. New York remains at the top, even after the devastation of Sept. 11, along with London, Frankfurt, Tokyo and Paris. That each is different in what it offers the global economy further underlines New York's role.
It is part of Lower Manhattan's history to reinvent itself continually. In the late 1970's the departure of large commercial banks and insurance companies convinced many that Wall Street was finished. But these departures created room for what were then relatively small financial firms to grow. Similarly today, departures may make it possible for new sectors and new mixes of talent to emerge in Lower Manhattan. We have already seen this with new-media firms, which benefit from proximity to various resources and forms of expertise, including financial, legal and accounting.
There is an economic logic, then, to thick, dense places. But what are the possible architectures of density? In the last 40 years, architecture has progressed so that density can be achieved in a far broader range of forms than the iconic 1960's-style skyscraper. In at least four ways, however, public understanding lags behind what can be built.
It is still common to think that horizontality is more or less incompatible with density and verticality: Los Angeles is exhibit No. 1, followed by sprawling developments across the country. There is no necessary link between horizontal building and "thin" environments -- think of any medieval city -- but we Americans have become accustomed to equating "flat" and "thin."
That belief feeds into a second notion, that horizontality is something that happens only at ground level.
A third notion is that verticality means upward, shooting skyward, rather than digging below the ground. True, underground space in New York does not have too good a name: we are inclined to flee our most familiar underground space, the subway, for good reason. But cities as diverse as Moscow, Montreal and Tokyo have made good-quality, usable underground space for transport, shopping and cultural events, in ways that address basic issues of safety, evacuation and ventilation.
Finally, tall, high-density buildings have become associated with dead public space at ground level. New York has plenty of examples from the 1980's and 90's, but in that same period Frankfurt pioneered in making lively public space at the bottom of its skyscrapers.
Poor architecture continues to reinforce old notions about density. Yet each of these four elements can be reconceived. Architectural horizontality has taken on a whole new importance at a time when economic, cultural and political networks that operate horizontally rather than hierarchically have been recognized as crucial. Today we can think of high-density, networked horizontal spaces high above the ground. One important study conducted at the London School of Economics found that there was no one-to-one correlation between height and density: three 30-story buildings do the same work as one 90-story structure. Thirty-story buildings are also more adaptable to new uses, and in that sense they can have a longer economic life. They also allow for more commercial activity at street level.
With our new technical abilities, we can think of verticality and its possibilities for density stretching downward and creating complex underground spaces. And we can think of verticality as allowing for dense, horizontal spaces that connect several buildings high up. Perhaps most challenging is the fourth element: What happens at ground level? We can have vibrant, dense street-level life when there are massive tall buildings in our midst, but the buildings have to be tall in a new way.
Most of the proposals for Lower Manhattan had at least one of these forward-thinking aspects. The tall buildings in the proposals by United Architects (including Greg Lynn, Ben van Berkel, Jesse Reiser and Kevin Kennen), the Think group (including Rafael Vinoly, Frederic Schwartz, Ken Smith and Shigeru Ban) and a third group led by Richard Meier, Peter Eisenman, Charles Gwathmey and Steven Holl have dense horizontal spaces that cut across towers at different heights. Most of the projects extend verticality underground, creating the possibility of complex worlds where New York has mostly turned its back. Norman Foster's underground plan captures this, as does Think's transportation hub.
One might wonder why towers should twist and roll and fall over each other. Why not keep them straight? But the architects recognized that playing with verticality would give the structures a more adaptable and sustainable life. Thus metal and glass bend and stretch. The jaggedness of the Daniel Libeskind proposal admits future irregular growth; as architecture it explodes with energy. The United Architects proposal has stood out for me in this regard, a compound of flexible towers exploring their forms (though I would chop off what can only be described as the chimney on top of the rhomboid structure).
The jungle of wormlike tubes of the Skidmore, Owings & Merrill proposal looked intriguing as design, mixing enormous density without breaking the skyline.
But even if Manhattan can use a new high-density complex, should it be in Lower Manhattan?
Today, when homogeneity -- office parks, shopping malls -- is overwhelming, Lower Manhattan still succeeds in mixing it all up: low-cost shopping areas sit next to the most powerful financial district in the world, immigrant communities reside on the northern edge and, less visibly, artists live and work in obsolete high-rise buildings once at the heart of the district.
The World Trade Center was a microcosm of this mix. It housed the third-largest shopping complex in the country, with many immigrant-run businesses, a lot of mid-level government offices and some leading financial services firms. The site captures something about the deep history of Lower Manhattan: a hybrid patch of humanity and urbanity.
Should architecture re-enact the area's past? No. That would be a form of death. Lower Manhattan is already onto its next set of economic histories. Confronted with this energy and anarchy, its architecture cannot fall back to evoking older, calmer sites in the city that continue to work well as design and as civic spaces, like Rockefeller Center. Equally, the fantasy of building the tallest tower ever in an act of total defiance (and totalizing architecture) is not forward-looking. It is, rather, redolent of the cold war, where having the biggest gun/tallest tower was what mattered.
Architecture should be an enabler of multiple forms of habitation -- certainly in the case of Lower Manhattan -- and it should be something unto itself, something that draws us in or takes our mind elsewhere or simply thrills us. Were there such projects unveiled on Dec. 18? Yes, and it was thrilling. As soon as I saw the images I saw the beginnings of new, intense histories for Lower Manhattan. Each of the projects had some extraordinary components and some troubling ones. I found the work of United Architects and Daniel Libeskind the most suggestive of new beginnings, particularly in their conception of the memorial spaces. Mr. Libeskind's design engages a sober spiritual dimension as it wrestles with the ground. United Architects' is dramatic and looks at the sky. Neither sells architecture short. They use verticality (and provide office space) but reinvent it; they do not confine verticality to the tower.
The reclaiming of complexity of space is particularly striking: the vertical gardens, museums and cultural centers of the Think team; the enclosures for the memorial in the Foster project, allowing silence and sky to rule; the Meier team's memorial plaza flowing out into the Hudson and lighting the piers.
It is possible that none of these projects will get built. That does not alter this moment of possibility and of accomplishment. The city succeeded, through a cumbersome process and a lot of mobilizing, in producing this concerted effort by architects, planners, urbanists and sculptors. Lots of people worked hard to allow the city not just to think big -- something New York is good at -- but to think in terms of grand architecture, something New York has done little of.
The unanswered issue that looms over these projects is whether they can create a truly public sphere. This has been largely absent from New York. Ours has been a capital of commerce and finance, lacking a public architecture for everyday life. Chicago has done better, says the London-based consulting engineer Kevin O'Sullivan; it has understood something about public space and public architecture that New York seems to run away from.
These projects show us Lower Manhattan as one part of a larger city: a transportation hub, a financial center, a site for government offices. But it is also a place in the city: this means that public space, housing and mixed street-level activities all need to be included in the final shape of the rebuilding.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At top, rendering of a proposal for the World Trade Center site, including the memorial shadows, by a group led by Richard Meier, Peter Eisenman, Charles Gwathmey and Steven Holl. Above, design for "City in the Sky" by United Architects. (United Architects); (dbox/archphoto) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HIJACKING (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); INSURANCE (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (64%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ARCHITECTURE; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: SASSEN, SASKIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (53%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



810 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
A Suburban Street Straight Up Into the Sky?

BYLINE:  By BORIS FISHMAN; Boris Fisher is on the editorial staff of The New Yorker.

 BODY:
THERE has been much talk of cities in the sky since the recent unveiling of nine designs for the reconstruction at ground zero in Manhattan. Some of the plans envisioned gardens and theaters hoisted 50 stories in the air. The architects hailed the proposals as a new kind of urbanism. 
 In fact, the idea of a metropolis vaulted hundreds of feet into the air has beguiled fabulists for nearly 100 years. In the early 20th century, experiments by the Russian avant-garde yielded fanciful visions of airborne cities whose economy of space embodied the Communist faith in the perfectibility of man and his environment. 
 At the movement's forefront was the architect Lazar Khidekel, a protege of Marc Chagall. But Khidekel (pronounced hee-DEK-el) never built his aeropolis. In the early 1930's, Socialist Realism and its mandate of egalitarian accessibility proscribed the nontraditional designs of the avant-garde. His experimental schemes languished in a drawer. 
Seventy years later, Khidekel's son, the Russian-American architect Mark Khidekel, 56, has revived and refined his father's blueprint for the accommodation of a revolutionary society in the unlikeliest of places: ground zero. Mr. Khidekel proposes the structure as a replacement for the World Trade Center. He calls it the Vertical Highway.
The idea is as exhilarating as it is improbable. Giant pillars positioned around the footprints of the Twin Towers rise skyward and support scores of open-air plots that seemingly hang in midair. "The age of sealed boxes is over," Mr. Khidekel said. "The World Trade Center was so rigid and confined. How would you evacuate from there?"
Mr. Khidekel said that three construction systems fortify the Vertical Highway: a standard grid of beams and columns, suspension cables, and a DNA-like spiral of roadways, from which the structure gets its name, forming a kind of fishing net impervious to collapse. Models of the skyscraper are currently on display at the Russian-American Cultural Center in downtown Manhattan. The center, founded by Mr. Khidekel's wife, Regina, in 1998, is an artistic mecca for the Russian emigre community.
Mr. Khidekel imagines the structure as primarily residential (though it could also contain business and cultural facilities). "What is America, after all?" he asked. "An endless highway, with plots of land on either side. This building would realize the ultimate American dream: the free-standing home of suburbia amid the cultural and recreational amenities available only in a large city."
Why does anyone ever agree to live or work on the 100th floor? Because its enclosures make them feel as if they are on the 10th. Mr. Khidekel said that in his open-air structure, the effect would be no different from that of a sprawling balcony on Central Park West.
"We have an historic opportunity to construct something radically new in that wounded place," Mr. Khidekel said. "Not only for its practical advantages, but as evidence of our will to live, our perseverance."

Vertical Highway
Russian-American Cultural Center, 55 John Street.
Through March 7.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Khidekel with his Vertical Highway model: a father's inspiration. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (86%); HIJACKING (79%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); TERRORISM (74%) ARCHITECTURE; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: RUSSIAN-AMERICAN CULTURAL CENTER 

PERSON: KHIDEKEL, MARK; FISHMAN, BORIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



811 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
United Still Up in the Air, And So Are Cutbacks

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG

 BODY:
IN many ways, air travelers have become blase about flying on bankrupt airlines because so many in the United States have gone in and out of bankruptcy court since the early 1990's.
 But the sheer size of United Airlines, the world's second-largest carrier by revenue, means that any consumer-related changes that occur as it restructures could have widespread effects in the industry. Travel experts say passengers should carefully watch what United does, though they should not rush to cancel tickets or change travel plans. 
United filed for bankruptcy protection on Dec. 9 mainly because of high costs and a falloff in business travel. As of mid-January, it had announced only one daily flight cut from its schedule. United has 1,700 daily flights, a nearly 6 percent drop from its schedule on Dec. 9, a normal decrease at this time of year. 
 The airline says, though, that it intends to cut capacity by 6 percent through the spring compared with the same period last year, so fliers will see a slimmer schedule. Analysts on Wall Street say that United will have to cut capacity by as much as 13 percent this year to move toward profitability.
 The cuts will probably affect service to small and midsize airports rather than service between hubs like Chicago and Denver. During economic slumps, big airlines like United usually try to reinforce their hub operations. United has announced, though, that as of March 30 it will no longer fly between Auckland, New Zealand, and Los Angeles. United said passengers who had booked travel after that date could use their tickets on Air New Zealand.
 "There's much-talked-about overcapacity out there," said Bill Oliver, vice-president of the Boyd Group, an aviation consulting company in Evergreen, Colo. "United is going to have to bite the bullet in some markets."
The American Society of Travel Agents recommends that passengers use credit cards to pay for their plane tickets, so if the airline does not provide the promised service, the passenger can refuse to pay the charge.
 As for its frequent-flier program, United has not made any changes yet. It said that it would honor all miles and that passengers would be able to accrue miles in the usual manner, by taking flights or using the linked credit card issued by Bank One. The program has 40 million members and 12 million unredeemed frequent-flier tickets. 
 Some industry experts say that United could even offer more incentives, like bonus miles, to its frequent fliers so they will continue flying United. Likewise, its rivals could try to woo anxious passengers with their own frequent-flier incentives.
 United passengers who often use Red Carpet executive lounges may find that some of them have shut down. The airline has said it might close several to save on costs.
 There probably will not be immediate across-the-board changes in fares. Some industry executives have said that in the past airlines in bankruptcy drastically cut their fares to keep customers. But economists have done studies disputing this, and restricted fares are already at a historic low.
 Last month, United announced a sale on some leisure fares that was eventually extended to Jan. 10. Terry Trippler, an air fare expert and industry consultant, said that in some domestic markets the lowest fares were cut by 10 percent, and in some international markets, 20 percent. But United's sale price on the country's most popular routes, such as between Chicago and New York, was not necessarily the lowest, he said.
 This shows that United is not yet willing to drastically cut its fares to entice passengers, even if it is struggling financially, Mr. Trippler said.
 On Jan. 6, United said it was cutting unrestricted fares in 12,500 markets by about 40 percent. Business travelers in those markets could benefit, but United will have to make more sweeping cuts to truly simplify its fare structure, industry experts said.
 As for food service, United further reduced its offerings on Jan. 7. The cuts it made before its bankruptcy filing mostly affected economy class. But the new changes also affect business and first class passengers. For example, those passengers on most North American flights will now get a deli and salad plate rather than a hot lunch.
 Travelers on certain routes will also notice a difference in planes. Part of United's plan to cut capacity is to replace large planes on some flights with smaller regional jets. The smaller jets cost less to operate, but they have less roomy interiors. United's contract with the Air Line Pilots Association places a cap on the number of regional jets it can deploy, but United is negotiating with the union to lift that limit.
 United has also said it was trying to trim its fleet of wide-body Boeing 747-400's. Passengers used to flying those planes on many routes will probably find themselves boarding a Boeing 777, a smaller wide-body plane that has almost the same range as the 747. But United will have to keep the 747-400 on some trans-Pacific routes because of the distances, said Jamie Baker, an airline analyst for J.P. Morgan Chase.
 Passengers might encounter other inconveniences at airports related to United's bankruptcy. For example, a sushi restaurant at Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington has begun rejecting food vouchers issued by United and US Airways for fear of not being paid. 
 Travelers who want to follow consumer-related changes at United can check the following Web sites: united.com, fly.faa.gov and these consumer sites, johnnyjet.com, flyertalk.com, and joesentme.com. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); LOYALTY MARKETING (76%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (74%); TRAVEL AGENTS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); CREDIT CARDS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (90%); AIR NEW ZEALAND LTD (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (51%)

TICKER: AIZ (ASX) (58%); AIR (NZX) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (51%); JPM (LSE) (51%); 8634 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (69%) COLORADO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



812 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Long Island; 
Office Plans on the Boards Remain on the Boards

BYLINE:  By CAROLE PAQUETTE 

 BODY:
EVEN though Long Island's job market is relatively strong, major office builders say that sluggishness in the leasing market and concern about the overall economy have made them cautious about building without a major tenant. This wariness is in sharp contrast with the situation about two years ago, when employment was strong and building on speculation was prevalent. 
 The Reckson Associates Realty Corporation, a publicly traded real estate investment trust, which has 4 million square feet of office space on Long Island, will not begin construction on a new building until a 277,000-square-foot building in Melville that was completed in 2001 is at least 90 percent leased, according to Mitchell Rechler, a co-president. The building, constructed on speculation at the south service road of the Long Island Expressway, is 77 percent leased, he said. 
 Construction began in 2000 when the market was "at its peak," Mr. Rechler said. "At the time we expected to be fully leased in 24 to 30 months. Leasing activity has not been as strong in the past few months, but we are still right on target." 
Another new building, identical in size and design, is planned for a site adjacent to its sister building, he said. "We are ready to go on the second building, but we want to get further along in the leasing with this one, and it depends on the market dynamics and the economy," Mr. Rechler said.
In December, the Woodbury-based Tilles Companies, which has 3 million square feet of office space on Long Island, completed leasing its new 103,000-square-foot building in Woodbury when the Geico Direct Insurance Company rented 17,750 square feet. The $20 million building, completed in 1999, had also been constructed on speculation.
Plans for a new office project, which would be on 52 acres in Melville known as "the pumpkin farm," which Tilles has owned since 1982 and which is still being farmed, is contingent on getting an anchor tenant for the site, said Roger Tilles, a partner in the company with his brother, Peter. 
It took 15 years to change the parcel's zoning from residential to industrial, he said. The current zoning allows for 540,000 square feet of office space that would not exceed two buildings. 
"It would be too high a risk to build on spec," he said. "The smallest building would be 250,000 square feet and that is too big for spec, although a portion of it may be." Tilles is in negotiations with three possible tenants, he said. 
"New office buildings are based on job growth," said Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist of the Long Island Association, a Commack-based business group. "As long as the job market holds up and there is no overbuilding, we will be in a good position because there is no overhang of office space like we had 10 years ago. 
IN the single year of 1984, Long Island gained more the 50,000 jobs, and construction of new office buildings increased, she explained. "By 1987 there was overbuilding. In 1990, we lost 14,000 jobs," a trend that reflected the departure of military contractors. Job losses continued through 1992, "when Long Island became more diversified, and technology, communications and export companies and tourism substituted for the defense industry," she said, adding that the growth culminated with 41,800 new jobs in 1999, "and building began again."
She added, "It was an excellent decision to build during 1998 and 1999 because at that time they were beginning to see a drop in Class A office space."
About half of Long Island's total of more than 36.5 million square feet of office space is Class A -- well-situated buildings with the most modern amenities.
"The market today is tight," said Dr. Kamer, noting that by the end of the third quarter last year there was 1.85 million square feet of Class A office space available, a 9 percent decline from 2001.
"I'm not surprised to see that Tilles is now fully occupied; it took time, but consider the rate of job growth," she added. Alluding to Woodbury's location in Nassau with excellent transportation connections to New York, she said, "Those close to the city have a better opportunity to rent because we are seeing some exodus of city companies to the surrounding suburbs."
Building owners with large amounts of space have taken advantage of the flexibility of moving tenants within their own buildings to lease space. That process has accounted for Tilles's consistent 95 percent occupancy rate in its two office parks, said Roger Tilles.
When construction on the new building began in 1997, "nobody had put up a new building in 10 years and people thought it was a huge risk because the market on Long Island was not great," he said. "But, to build an extra 100,000 square feet in our own park didn't seem to us a big risk; we always were shuffling tenants around who wanted more or less space." 
As an example he cited Cablevision, which has gone from 20,000 square feet to 300,000 within Tilles's two Woodbury office parks over the past 30 years.
The properties -- the 1.1-million-square-foot Gateway Executive Plaza and the 1.5-million-square-foot Nassau Crossways International Plaza -- are within a one-mile radius that includes a portion of the Long Island Expressway. 
Tenants, who pay annual rents of $25 to $30 a square foot without utilities, have "firm deals when signing their 10-year leases, but they know if they must expand or contract we will accommodate them," Mr. Tilles said.
"It's the shuffling and the accommodation that keeps them and brings them here, and by creating more space it gives us the flexibility to move them," he said. "You have to have a product for them."
Tilles's new four-story building, which is on six acres within the Gateway complex, has a green glass facade highlighted by horizontal steel bands and simple concrete pillars rising from ground level to the raised first floor. The building was designed by Mojo Stumer Associates, based in Greenvale.
Its five tenants have taken space ranging from 60,000 square feet leased by Titleserv, a company that provides title insurance and searches, on the top two floors, to 8,300 square feet on the first floor to be occupied by the Long Island office of Insignia/ESG, the commercial real estate services firm. Amenities include a 4,000-square-foot cafeteria and a backup generator. 
Currently, there are five tenants in Reckson's new building, called Reckson Executive Park. Annual asking rents are $32 per square foot. Last spring, Zurich North America, an international insurance company, leased the largest block of space -- 70,000 square feet. More recently, Salomon Smith Barney leased 35,000 square feet, expanding from 15,000 at a different Reckson site in Melville.
"We are in constant contact with our tenant base as they expand and contract," Mr. Rechler said. He added that the company had a 94.6 percent occupancy rate that "has held over in the past year."
FARTHER east, the Tritec Real Estate Company of East Setauket completed a 204,000-square-foot building last year at 100 Motor Parkway at the intersection of the Long Island Expressway and Sagtikos State Parkway in Hauppauge. Of the 170,000 square feet of office space, 27 percent has been leased, according to Robert J. Coughlan, a principal. Allstate has leased 44,000 square feet and Robert Half International, a California-based executive search firm, 2,500 square feet. 
Annual rents at the new six-story building are $26 to $28.50 a square foot. Amenities include a 34,000-square-foot lower level that includes conference rooms, exercise facilities and a cafeteria. The architects were Mojo Stumer and the Ronkonkoma-based Baldassano Architectural Group. 
Once the building is 90 percent leased or a primary tenant is interested in more space than is available, Tritec will begin construction of an adjacent identical building, Mr. Coughlan said, adding that the company is negotiating leases with about 10 companies.
The market was significantly different when construction on the building began in 2000, he said. "Our projections then were that we would be leasing quicker, but whenever you underwrite a large speculative project, you have to prepare for the worst. We arranged our financing accordingly and were not worried. But, the sky is not falling in real estate right now, and the market seems to be more active."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter and Roger Tilles at their company's newest building at Gateway Executive Plaza in Woodbury, where five tenants have taken space. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times) Chart: "Jobs on Long Island"Total employment in Nassau and Suffolk Counties, in thousands, through Nov. 2002. Graph tracks employment from 1980 through Nov. 2002. (Source: New York State Department of Labor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (62%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (56%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: SL GREEN REALTY CORP (72%); DIRECT INSURANCE CO (66%); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (53%)

TICKER: SLG (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (66%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%)

PERSON: PAQUETTE, CAROLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NASSAU COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); LONG ISLAND (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



813 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: OPINION; 
State of the State, and Us, Too

BYLINE:  By DESMOND RYAN; Desmond Ryan is executive director of the Association for a Better Long Island, a developers' group.

 BODY:
PART of Governor Pataki's successful political strategy is to be quite deliberate in keeping his critics off balance. But there was no misreading his latest State of the State address on Jan. 8. While the rest of the nation has moved on from the attacks of Sept. 11, New York City continues to dig out from the economic wreckage, with Long Island still under its downwind pall. That impact, coupled with an overall economic malaise that has lowered projected tax revenues, has guaranteed that a lot of political pain will be required to balance the books. 
 From his podium, the Governor was silent on exactly how the state government is going to bridge the deficit, but you can make book that he will fight any tax increases for fear they will push businesses into neighboring states. Lobbyists from Long Island and elsewhere may find themselves re-enacting Napoleon's sad retreat from snowy Moscow as they leave a frozen Albany this winter with few of the dollars they had sought on behalf of their clients. In being rebuffed, they will have come face to face with a state government that has suffered as no United States statehouse has suffered since the Civil War. Some $2 billion worth of red ink this year and a projected $9 billion by fiscal year '04 is an unimaginable deficit -- one that is partly the result of two airstrikes, nearly 3,000 dead and lost office space to equal that of downtown Chicago. 
 That is not to say that Mr. Pataki will ignore Long Island's economic agenda. He recognizes that Nassau and Suffolk counties will be crucial in the recovery of the state's economic health. He cannot ignore the issues facing the region, but he does not have the luxury of solving problems with buckets of cash that no longer exist. Progress will have to come about through policy instead. 
How to meet Long Island's economic agenda? This administration should go back to the basics. Moving people and products is key to commerce, so let's dump the fiction of creating a Long Island Rail Road link from Brooklyn to downtown Manhattan. If the L.I.R.R. gets any capital funds spend at all, it should be to end the rail traffic congestion between Jamaica and Hicksville. And let's remove the state HOV restrictions on the Long Island Expressway, which will allow increased capacity for this crucial artery. 
Affordable, reliable energy is critical to Long Island. Put the full weight of the state behind the Long Island Power Authority's master energy plan that will allow it to build major new generating plants on Long Island and not depend on hostile governments like Connecticut, where eco-radicals masquerading as elected officials continue to hold the Cross Sound power cable hostage. 
Long Island is well poised to take advantage of Mr. Pataki's focus on encouraging high-tech and biotech initiatives. But that would assume that our local towns and the two counties follow the governor's lead by providing land-use development incentives for those proposals that "grow" the entrepreneur -- individuals who ultimately prime the economic pump. Similarly, Long Island has more than half a dozen colleges and universities. We should expand current plans to leverage the intellectual capital found at these centers of learning under a state program that enlists their assistance on behalf of specific business sectors.
We can also market ourselves nationwide. This is a state that dug itself out from the rubble of the World Trade Center, hoisted its flag, honored its dead and went back to work with a determination not seen in 60 years. What company in any part of the nation wouldn't want that kind of work ethic, pride and grit? 
If observers were expecting a State of the State address that would ring with Churchillian oratory, they should have known better. The real drama will be in how this budget evolves over the next 30 days and becomes a document that begins to put our financial house back in order by paying attention to the uninspiring but critical equation of revenues and expenses, services and constituent expectations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (86%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LOBBYING (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); TERRORISM (72%); TRENDS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); POWER PLANTS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (63%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (57%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; BIOTECHNOLOGY; STATE OF THE STATE MESSAGE (NYS) 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (51%)

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); RYAN, DESMOND 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) LONG ISLAND (NY); LONG ISLAND EXPRESSWAY

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



814 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK; 
Entrepreneurs' New Dream: Buy Back the Stock

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
LAST fall, Bert Brodsky, an information technology entrepreneur in Port Washington, spiced up an otherwise staid legal conference in Melville by lashing out against the newly imposed government guidelines intended to change the way public companies are managed.
 Stealing the show from a panel of legal and accounting experts, Mr. Brodsky let loose with a colorful sermon against what he depicted as unfair, unnecessary and ill-advised government intrusion into the market as set forth in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 
 Mr. Brodsky's caustic remarks brought howls of sympathetic laughter from the audience but also suggested the sense that running a publicly traded company in the post-Enron era was going to be substantially different -- more difficult and more expensive -- than it had been not too long ago, when the terms "public offering" and "getting rich" seemed synonymous. 
Mr. Brodsky said that between the depressed stock market and the specter of increasing government monitoring, running a public company no longer seemed desirable. At the time he was struggling to keep one of his companies, Sandata, listed on the Nasdaq market, meanwhile exploring ways to buy his way back into private control.
Mr. Brodsky was not, and is not, alone. A combination of depressed stock prices, auditing reform, new rules about the responsibilities of directors and higher fees for legal services and insurance are pushing a number of smaller Long Island companies to explore how they can buy their businesses back from their shareholders.
"There is a lot of talk, much more than ever, about companies going private," said Irvin Brum, the chairman of the corporate and securities department at Ruskin Moscou Faltischek, the Uniondale law firm, and an organizer of the conference Mr. Brodsky made into a bully pulpit.
Some of the reason is classic market economics. "Management sees that the company's shares are trading at 40 percent below their value and tries to buy them back," Mr. Brum said. "But a lot of it has to do with Sarbanes-Oxley. If you're operating a public company now, your costs are going up. Your accounting fees are going up. Your legal fees are going up. You face a greater risk of liability."
Executives at thinly traded companies "are throwing up their hands and saying, 'This is just too difficult,' " he said, adding, "As a result, a lot of people now are thinking about going private."
In Nassau and Suffolk 113 companies were listed on Nasdaq in December 1996 as the market reached its peak, and now six years later, 64 remain, a result of delistings, mergers and closings, as well as privatizations. Nationally, the ranks of companies on the Nasdaq exchange have shrunk by more than a third, from 5,556 in December 1996 to 3,663 last month.
Mr. Brodsky's experience was, in many ways, typical of company founders who took their businesses public but remained at the helm, riding the bull market and then suffering as the bottom fell out. Through much of the spring, Mr. Brodsky sought to shore up Sandata's sinking stock price as it edged closer to Nasdaq's minimum valuation requirements. Then in July, with investors abandoning technology stocks en masse and with industry profits sinking further, Nasdaq officials told him that they planned to delist his company. 
Mr. Brodsky challenged the action -- he contended that the market had undervalued Sandata stock -- and promptly made an offer to buy out his shareholders. Earlier this month, he succeeded; Sandata is now once again a private company. Mr. Brodsky owns 70 percent, and his family members and partners own the rest.
Other entrepreneurs are now looking at ways to shed the shareholders they once courted and to escape the public scrutiny and additional operating costs. On New Year's Eve Donald Sinkin, the top executive at Disc Graphics, a printing company in Hauppauge, led an investment group that took the company private.
Another Long Island company is working with Ruskin Moscou on a privatization deal, Mr. Brum said, but he added that it was too early to name the company. (Announcements of privatization plans can inflate the price of shares, so executives involved in buybacks usually avoid public comment.)
It often isn't easy being public. Many smaller companies complain they are too closely scrutinized by analysts. "The analysts are going to pressure you to make projections about revenues and profits," said Andrew Edson, who owns the public-relations company that bears his name in Manhattan and Jericho. "We counsel clients not to make projections."
The reason is that when projections are wrong, even by small amounts, public companies then have to hold lengthy public discussions explaining any discrepancies, Mr. Edson said.
In small-cap companies, where there may be no one who handles investor relations, often it is the senior executive who ends up discussing the company's performance with analysts, journalists and others, sometimes diverting attention from other activities that would have more direct financial benefits. On the other hand, brokerage firms have cut back on the number of analysts tracking small-cap companies and industry sectors that have been on the decline. Because many investors rely on analysts' reports and recommendations, companies not followed by analysts find it difficult to attract investors.
The result is a Catch-22. The company is thinly traded, and so analysts stay away; because analysts stay away, investors never hear about the company. "The major brokerage houses have cut back their coverage of smaller companies," Mr. Edson said. "They've dropped coverage of hundreds, if not thousands of companies. It's becoming more difficult to get a following." 
Richard Lippe, a managing partner in Meltzer, Lippe, Goldstein & Schlissel, a law firm in Mineola, said that he thought much of the ire directed by company founders against the Sarbanes-Oxley Act amounted to posturing. "The amount of extra cost entailed in compliance is being exaggerated, and in fact many of the new expenses will also affect private companies," said Mr. Lippe, who heads his firm's corporate and technology group. "In fact it's going to be much more expensive to attract quality people as directors and to purchase insurance for them, whether to a public company or private one."
But running a public company, Mr. Lippe admitted, is not for everyone. "You're constantly operating in a fishbowl," he said. "Some people get very, very wealthy. But psychologically, it isn't for everyone."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bert Brodsky, left, found public ownership onerous and bought out his Sandata shareholders. He and his family are now its principal owners. With Mr. Brodsky are three of his four children, from left, Jessica Miller and David and Jeffrey Brodsky. (Phil Marino for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); GOING PRIVATE (89%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (89%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ACCOUNTING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); DELISTINGS (75%); MERGERS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



815 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1599 words

HEADLINE: When Is Enough Too Much? 

BYLINE:  By JANE GORDON 

 BODY:
THOUSANDS are losing jobs, the economy is lagging, but, still, houses are sprouting like clover in Connecticut. Yet as home builders rejoice, towns are taking steps -- some extreme -- to figure out how to slow the growth and the strain on their services.
 Some towns have gone so far as to put a stop to all new projects by imposing moratoriums on building applications. East Haddam has put in place a six-month moratorium ending in May. Cromwell and Ellington are each considering one. Pomfret established a moratorium on housing subdivisions while its brand-new planning and zoning commission figures out zoning regulations. 
 Coventry has changed its required building lot size to two acres from one and formed a task force to address residential growth. And in an extraordinary move, it has left vacant a handful of houses it seized because of back taxes rather than have new families move in, figuring the property taxes the properties would bring wouldn't nearly cover the costs of providing services, such as education, to the new owners. 
"These are all small steps to enhance land use and control growth," said Eric Trott, the town planner of Coventry. "A lot of drops in the bucket make a full bucket."
Jim Gibbons, a planner-educator with the University of Connecticut's Center for Land Use Education and Research, said that for years towns have been using the wrong strategy.
"Local commissions thought they were doing such a great thing with residential development, until town officials got hit with hard research that showed the adverse impact of single-family homes," said Jim Gibbons, a planner-educator with the University of Connecticut's Center for Land Use Education and Research. "Cows and trees don't go to school."
In the past, towns marketed themselves as oases for would-be home buyers in hopes of lengthening their property tax lists and attracting companies that would draw workers into those subdivisions. From the inner ring of suburbs surrounding cities, development pushed out into the countryside, as farmers sold their land to developers.
Moratoriums, of course, can be controversial: Some town planners said they are necessary because town plan and zoning commissions are spending all their time considering applications and none of it reviewing existing regulations to improve them. They said they need time to do that.
"We needed a breather to look at regulations and study land-use patterns," said James Ventres, East Haddam's town planner "Because the planning and zoning commission handles this -- it's not a town vote -- the members can't be going to meetings until 12 o'clock at night and then make rational decisions afterward."
Yet critics said commissions. often comprising volunteers, are not doing their jobs correctly if they require moratoriums to find the time they need.
"Moratoriums are local officials admitting they are caught with their pants down," said Mr. Gibbons, who often runs workshops for planning and zoning commissions. "I tell them what, by law, their responsibilities are, and they often say, 'we're just volunteers, we don't have the time.' I say to them, 'You really have to take a stab at this or step aside and let someone who will.' A lot of these commissions haven't been doing what they should be doing, with planning, with inventories, with regulations that carry out the plan concept. If you're going to agree to serve on these boards, have a good idea of what's expected of you."
East Haddam's problems are a microcosm of what is facing many towns. About 6,000 people were living in the town in 1980. About 8,400 live there now. Although many bought houses in new developments on large plots of land, the town is now encouraging developers to build clustered developments -- houses that sit on only a small portion of the available acreage -- to preserve open space. Residents struggle with the newer concepts, though, believing it will alter their way of life. 
"I'm an old man, I've been here over 50 years," said Edgar H. Bishop, who along with his neighbors is fighting a proposed 22-house cluster development on his street, Petticoat Lane. "We live on a quiet country road, and this guy wants to put 22 houses in. I realize we'll have development of the town, but people on this street have built homesteads on their property. I built a new house all those years ago, and I'm still sitting on my 25 acres with my pond and I just think this is going to change my style of living."
The developer, Ralph Gometz, alternated between frustration and bewilderment at the impasse.
"The residents don't want development," he said. "But if they want development, they want a standard subdivision. They are so far behind the times you wonder if they are in this century."
Residents may be discomfited by the sight of more residents, but the administrators who run the town are even more uncomfortable. East Haddam has almost no commercial tax base. A buyer with two children who bought a 3,000-square-foot house in 2002 paid taxes of $6,500. At a cost of $9,043.19 a year to educate a child in the town's schools, according to the State Department of Education, East Haddam is spending more than $18,000 on education for that one household.
"They're losing money every time somebody with kids moves to town," said Mark Branse, a land-use lawyer in Glastonbury. "And I don't know the answer, although residents think they do. Their answer: To close the doors to town. Now there are countries that have aristocracies, where people who have lived there longer have more legal rights. In this country, we don't believe that. In this country, we believe all citizens and all property owners have the same legal rights."
For East Haddam, the financial situation would not be so bad if it had other sources of cash. But as state and federal aid to municipalities has decreased, local reliance on property taxes has increased. Coincidentally, the East Haddam Board of Education is the town's biggest employer.
Couple that with an understaffed planning department: It's just Mr. Ventres and his secretary. Compare that to Glastonbury, a town Mr. Gibbons characterized as a model of planning and zoning. The town has a full-time director of community development, two secretaries, a town planner, a full-time environmental planner, a planning technician, three zoning enforcement officers and a full-time town engineer.
"And Glastonbury could use additional staff," Mr. Branse said. "East Haddam, by comparison, is massively understaffed."
What's the solution for towns? They certainly can't make the moratoriums permanent, just shut the door and keep everybody out. Communities aren't, after all, private clubs. One of the answers, town planners and consultants said, is cluster subdivisions, such as those housing developments built around golf courses that have been going up around the state. Such subdivisions allow houses on smaller lots and preserve open space, which in the end costs towns less in plowing, road maintenance and other services.
Some developers, such as Harry Day, who built the River Highlands, a golf course subdivision in Cromwell, called his project an "open-space conservation development" instead of cluster housing.
"I think we had a better response calling it that," Mr. Day said. "If we hadn't gone with cluster housing, the golf course would have been standard housing, and we would have lost the open space." Of the development's 225 acres, 160 were reserved for open space. The development will have 202 houses. If a standard development had been built on the site, the open space could have been lost.
Towns also are aggressively competing for those desirable residents who will pay property taxes, but not drain town services: those 55 and older. Three such developments are in various stages of construction in Avon. They are high-end condominium complexes that range from 1,500 to 2,500 square feet.
A resident of a 2,500-square-foot condominium pays about $7,200 in taxes annually in Avon, but does not use the costly town services that a homeowner in a single-family house would use.
"Yes, that type of housing is more favorable than single-family homes," said Steven Kushner, Avon's town planner. "With these projects, the roads are not public so we save money there, and we save on educational costs."
Open-space funds, from which the towns may draw money to compete in the real-estate marketplace to save town land, also have become increasingly popular. East Haddam residents are expected to vote this week to determine if $5 million will be added to its open-space account. Glastonbury has already spent more than $10 million of its account on open space.
"One of the problems we identified was if there was a piece of property on the market that we were interested in and we approached the owner, we had to say 'Can you wait 10 months until the voters of the community approve the project?' " said Ken Leslie, Glastonbury's economic development director. "We realized if we were going to acquire meaningful pieces of open space, we needed to have the money readily available."
Mr. Gibbons said towns must simply decide what they want and come up with a plan.
"The point is, don't draw the curtain on residential development, Mr. Gibbons said. "The answer is to have a diversified community that has commercial, industrial and open space, which takes you into the realm of planning. Let's be on top of the game so we're not living in the post World-War II world, we're not a manufacturing state anymore. Let's see what we can do to attract professional offices, light industry and service. Let's zone land for that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The land, top, where a developer wants to build a cluster development in East Haddam, which has passed a moratorium on building applications. "We needed a breather," said the town planner. Above, River Highlands, a subdivision built around a golf course in Cromwell. Of its 225 acres, 160 will be open space. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ZONING (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); CITIES (73%); SUBURBS (70%) HOUSING; LAND USE POLICIES 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (54%)

PERSON: GORDON, JANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



816 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: THE HUDSON; 
By the Riverside, Better Access For Boaters

BYLINE:  By MARC FERRIS 

 BODY:
GRANT money is flowing to local municipalities and community groups that applied to participate in Gov. George E. Pataki's Hudson River Greenway Water Trail Program, designed to provide improved access for hand-launched boats to the river and to stimulate tourism. 
 The state has designated 57 trail sites from Lower Manhattan to the Erie Canal, including eight in Westchester. The county's newest, announced in November, is at George's Island Park in Montrose. 
 "We're developing more uniform and user-friendly launches, with flags that will be visible from the water," said Carmella R. Mantello, executive director of the Hudson River Valley Greenway Communities Council, based in Albany, which administers the $1 million program. "We'll have kiosks with tidal information and a directory of nearby attractions like restaurants and bed and breakfasts." 
The state appropriated the $1 million on Earth Day 2001, a sum Ms. Mantello said would be "plenty at this time." So far, she has allotted $250,000. "Times were better then, fiscally, but this is going to be a great tourism and economic boost," said Ms. Mantello. "This is not just a recreational asset. if the state and the municipalities think creatively about improving waterfronts, then downtowns and Main Streets will follow."
Grants, which must be matched by recipients, generally range from $7,500 to $15,000, said Ms. Mantello. One of the largest sums, $50,000, went to the Hudson River Watertrail Association, based in Austerlitz, N.Y., which revised its "Hudson River Water Trail Guide: A River Guide for Small Boaters," adding charts and updating information. The new Greenway sites are also listed. The guide devotes a a page to Annsville Creek Paddlesport Center in Cortlandt Manor, a new satellite site of Hudson Highlands State Park and a joint project of four state agencies, which opened last spring. The center, at the traffic circle where Routes 6 and 202 meet Route 9, replaced a New York State Department of Transportation maintenance facility and is the first state park devoted primarily to kayakers. 
A private company, Atlantic Kayak Tours, will offer tours, boat rentals and instruction beginning in April. The facility has a dry lift, paid for in part with a $7,500 grant from the Greenway, which allows kayakers and canoeists to launch and land without getting wet. 
Most of the trail launches in Westchester hug natural inlets and coves. Boaters can put their craft in at Oscawanna Island in Cortlandt and at Horan's Landing State Park in Sleepy Hollow, near the former General Motors plant. They can also stay overnight at a reserved campsite at Croton Point Park, a county site, in Croton-on-Hudson. 
Launches within the village of Croton-on-Hudson include one developed by the town behind the village's Department of Public Works garage at the junction of the Croton and Hudson Rivers with the help of a $25,000 Greenway planning grant. The village also developed an official water trail site at Croton Landing by upgrading the parking area and adding a footpath along the river. Irvington will receive $7,500 from the Greenway to improve river access at the 12-acre Scenic Hudson Park, opened in 2001. 
The park's boat launch is "not as usable as we would have liked," said Lawrence Schopfer, the village's clerk and treasurer. "The rocks are hard to navigate, so we're going to construct a whole new launch." 
The total cost, about $30,000 to $35,000, will be paid in part by a Greenway grant of $7,500 and a $5,000 grant from the Hudson River Improvement Fund, based in Manhattan. The expected completion date, "if we're lucky," said Mr. Schopfer, is midsummer. 
Last year, the village of Hastings bought Marinello Cove, site of a bustling shad camp in the 1930's and 1940's, to develop its kayak launch site. The Greenway contributed $10,000; the Hudson River Foundation gave $7,700. 
"I know it sounds corny, but the Hudson River is so special and this program is going to be the envy of the country," said Ms. Mantello. "We've already gotten calls from Michigan and Illinois asking how they can replicate this in their states." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kayaking on the Hudson River, at Nyack Beach State Park in Upper Nyack. The Annsville Creek Paddlesport Center in Cortlandt Manor, top right. Kayakers on the Hudson, pass by the Tarrytown Lighthouse. (Dith Pran/The New York Times); (John W. Wheeler for The New York Times); (Chris Maynard) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (89%); STATE PARKS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); EARTH DAY (68%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (62%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (53%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (50%) KAYAKS; CANOES AND CANOEING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); FERRIS, MARC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) HUDSON RIVER; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



817 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: Making a Living With 18th-Century Skills 

BYLINE:  By R. W. STEVENSON 

 BODY:
DESPITE their worries about a sour economy and the possibility of war, or perhaps because of them, people in Connecticut continue to spend serious money on building, rebuilding, furnishing and burnishing their houses.
 To get the job done right, high-end nesters here, and in other areas of the country as well, count on a cadre of Connecticut artisans. These craftsmen and women offer arcane skills that range from regilding picture frames and mirrors to hand-forging 17- and 18-century hardware. Even in this economy, they have all the work they can handle. 
 For example, Alice Prescott Whyte of Canton has a thriving business restoring and conserving antique paintings. "If I succeed, the results of my work are invisible to the naked eye," she said. 
Ms. Whyte does work for antique dealers, museums, galleries, corporations and private collectors from Connecticut to Texas. The goal is to return the painting to the artist's original intent by cleaning or repairing it.
To perform this work, she uses high-technology skills like digital imaging, which helps her imagine what the original painting looked like. But she also applies an instinct that money can't buy for knowing when to stop. "First, do no harm" is an aphorism that applies to fine arts conservation as well as medicine.
Ms. Whyte, 47, sees her life's calling as a synthesis of many disciplines and interests -- chemistry, mathematics, art history, philosophy and aesthetics.
"When you're working on a painting, you have to get into the heart and mind of the artist," she said. "You have to understand the time period in which he or she was working, to understand the context of the art. You have to examine and identify the pigments used, the way the brush was applied. This is intimate work. I find hairs from the brushes, sometimes even human hair, as I proceed."
Ms. Whyte never knows what her efforts will reveal.
"Recently I was cleaning a picture, a portrait of a Greek Revival house in an autumnal landscape," she said. "It was incredibly dirty. I uncovered a signature and a date, Edmund Darch Lewis, 1874."
Lewis (1835-1910) was a prolific American landscape painter whose works are popular with collectors today. According to Sotheby's auction house, large oil paintings by Lewis sell for $15,000 to $20,000. So Ms. Whyte's work transformed an old family heirloom into a valuable asset.

A Renaissance Craft
The frames that surround paintings get almost as much attention as the pictures themselves these days, and frames are the province of Neil C. Layne of Southport.
Mr. Layne, 39, is a gilder and carver who works on antique furniture, looking glasses, picture frames -- any object that originally had gold leaf on it. His clients include antique dealers, collectors and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. Mr. Layne recently restored a Russian throne chair purportedly owned by Catherine the Great, which a dealer had sold to an individual.
Mr. Layne's craft was common in the Renaissance, but very few people practice it anymore. Mr. Layne called his work "extremely low tech," performed as it would have been in 16th-century Italy -- by hand, painstakingly.
"We use only traditional tools, formulas and techniques," said Mr. Layne, a 1986 graduate of the School of Visual Arts in New York City who has had his own business since 1992. 
One of those techniques is French gesso re-cutting, in which he uses tiny hook-shaped metal scrapers to carve details into as many as 30 coats of gesso, a thin plaster-like substance, which is built up coat by coat on the object to be gilded, and into which leaves and other ornaments can be carved. Then the gold leaf is applied.
To be a good restorer, Mr. Layne said, it is necessary to know the history of furniture as well as how to do the work.
"A leaf carved in France is not the same as one carved in England,"' he said.

A Love for Old Wood
Craig Farrow, a Woodbury cabinetmaker, loves the furniture made by his professional ancestors in the 17th- and 18th-centuries. Because these pieces can be difficult to find, and sometimes cost in the millions of dollars, he has a thriving business making copies of them.
Like Mr. Layne, Mr. Farrow, 50, works in the old, slow ways, using antique tools whenever possible, and making his own tools if necessary to recreate an antique with faithful precision. In creating a copy of a rare corner cupboard for a Connecticut doctor who is building a vacation home in Vermont, Mr. Farrow fashioned his own sash plane to get the glazed front doors just right.
The original of the corner cupboard is an important piece in the Americana collection of the Yale University Art Gallery. Originally made in the 18th century for a house in North Branford, the cupboard is of white pine and tulip poplar and stands eight feet tall. It has all the details collectors yearn for -- a glazed door in the top section with a carved heart-shaped motif in the center, which opens to an interior with a large shell at the top and a central rosette; paneled doors below; fluted pilasters topped by carved rosettes on the sides. Mr. Farrow has been working on his copy for almost a year.
Although he graduated from college with a degree in psychology and tried other lines of work from time to time, Mr. Farrow could not escape his love for old wood, metal and tools. He established his own business in 1980. When he needs authentic, hand-forged hardware for his work, he turns to Bob Valentine, a blacksmith, of Goshen. 

More Than Horseshoes
Mr. Valentine has been bending iron to his will for more than half his life. With muscle, fire, experience and skill, the 42-year-old proprietor of Village Blacksmith in Goshen forges reproductions of 17th- and 18th-century ironware -- hinges and pintles, latches and door hooks, bolts and finials, door knockers and nails, lighting devices and andirons.
Mr. Valentine has been intent on the art and mystery of blacksmithing since he was a teenager growing up in Goshen.
"I've always been hooked on history," he said. "And history and what I do go hand in hand."
As a seventh grader, he took a beginning metals course and later created an independent course of study. For a school project, he wheedled an old anvil out of his grandfather, a local farmer who used it to repair farm implements. 
He devoured the books he could find on the subject, and after high school convinced the owner of a local forge to take him on as an apprentice.
"I stuck my foot in the door and wouldn't leave until I got a job," he said.
Mr. Valentine's latest project was a yearlong assignment for a new house now nearing completion in southern Litchfield County. 
"The house has 100 doors," he said. 
"At two hinges plus a latch for each door, that's 300 pieces of hand-forged hardware. And they weren't all the same design."

'Recession-Proof' Clients
Goshen borders Kent, home to St. John's Bridge, a 4,000-square-foot cabinetwork and custom-furniture establishment.
"My clients are recession-proof," said Greg St. John, the 42-year-old founder and owner of the business.
Mr. St. John and his crew recently finished an interior design and installation job for a couple building a new house in Ketcham, Idaho. He helped the clients design the kitchen and library of the house. In Connecticut, his workers made the paneling, cabinets, corner cupboards, even a curving staircase made of mahogany, using antique oak and 6,500 square feet of antique pine. Then they trucked it all out west and spent weeks installing it.
Mr. St. John has a degree in fine arts from the Cleveland Institute of Art, and is just a few hours shy of a master's degree in fine art from Hunter College in New York City. He has taught art in France and the United States, and has been an apprentice and journeyman in cabinet shops in Chicago and Manhattan. He learned cabinetmaking when he was a struggling painter and printmaker; his goal then was to put food on the table.
At one point in the early 1990's, he said, he worked at a Manhattan cabinet shop owned by two men who sat above the work area in an air-conditioned, glass-enclosed aerie. One man handled the telephones and the books; the other watched the workers below.
"If you stopped, even for a second, he was out on the catwalk asking what you were doing," Mr. St. John said.
This Dickensian experience convinced him that it was better to be your own boss. On Jan. 1, 1996, he opened St. John's Bridge.
Mr. St. John and his crew are now working on a 20,000-square-foot dwelling, the sort of extra-large new construction known locally as a "starter castle." For artisans, life in Connecticut can be good.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alice Prescott Whyte of Canton restores antique paintings. "If I succeed, the results of my work are invisible to the naked eye," she said.; Bob Valentine of Goshen, left, forges reproductions of 17th- and 18th-century ironware. "History and what I do go hand in hand," he said. At right, the studio of Neil C. Layne of Southport, a gilder and carver. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Greg St. John, left, makes custom furniture in his Kent workshop for clients who are "recession-proof," he said. Craig Farrow of Woodbury, below, specializes in reproductions of 17th- and 18th-century furniture.; Neil C. Layne working in the basement studio of his home in Southport. Mr. Layne, a gilder and carver, said his work was "extremely low tech." (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PAINTING (89%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (88%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (88%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (88%); HISTORY (78%); ART DEALERS (74%); AUCTIONS (73%); ART HISTORY (69%) ART; ANTIQUES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; WOOD CARVING; FURNITURE; BLACKSMITHS 

PERSON: WHYTE, ALICE PRESCOTT; LAYNE, NEIL; FARROW, CRAIG; ST JOHN, GREG; VALENTINE, BOB; STEVENSON, R W 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



818 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1994 words

HEADLINE: Brentwood Is Looking Up 

BYLINE:  By ALLAN RICHTER

DATELINE: BRENTWOOD 

 BODY:
EBULLIENT Brentwood residents are pinching themselves over a plan to build the largest mixed-use development in Long Island history -- a $4 billion complex of offices, restaurants, shops and 9,000 apartments -- on the edge of their community. It's as if someone forgot to tell the developer, Gerald Wolkoff, about the years of crime, poverty and overcrowded schools that have tarnished Brentwood's image.
 But Mr. Wolkoff does not seem too worried about Brentwood's problems. He believes the influence will work in the other direction, with his proposed complex boosting area property values. "Do not -- not -- sell your homes," the developer implored Brentwood residents at a Jan. 16 meeting at Suffolk Community College, where he unveiled plans for his project, to be called Heartland Town Square. "This will lift up Brentwood." 
 Linda Box, a 17-year Brentwood resident, couldn't help but be impressed. "It's beautiful," she said as she gazed at an image of a tree-lined street that Mr. Wolkoff had projected on a screen. "It looks like 'The Truman Show.' " 
She was referring to Seaside, the Florida Panhandle development that was the setting for the 1998 film starring Jim Carrey about an artificial paradise where everything is neat and everyone is happy. Take away the palm trees and that's what Mr. Wolkoff has in mind for central Long Island, on 460 acres surrounding what's left of the Pilgrim Psychiatric Center.
His proposed live-where-you-work community, a concept that has been mostly ignored on Long Island in the 125 years since Garden City pioneered the suburban development model, has drawn initial positive reaction and has been cautiously applauded for embracing the concepts known collectively as New Urbanism or "smart growth" -- a pedestrian-friendly, high-density, affordable community with minimal strain on local infrastructure and natural resources.
Many expect the project to boost property values and generate millions in additional tax revenue, as Mr. Wolkoff promises. But just about every bit of praise that residents and civic leaders are heaping on the huge project has been appended with questions about traffic congestion, safety, environmental issues and the development's impact on Brentwood, which has high unemployment and one of the Island's largest and poorest school districts.
Mr. Wolkoff said he wants to attract 15,000 residents to a smaller, "prettier" version of Manhattan where residents can socialize into the late hours, walking from their offices and/or apartments to the restaurants, health clubs and swimming pools he proposes. His target market, empty-nesters and recent college graduates, purposely excludes families with children. 
Mr. Wolkoff conceded that his plan to include a 16-story office building -- the Island's tallest -- on the site is an "an ego thing." But he insisted that his overall plan is motivated by nothing more than altruism. "Long Island is tired and needs a shot in the arm," he said. And while he has no intention of losing money, he said his priority is critical, not financial, success.
"Just picture a town that has New England-type streets, little narrow streets where you can walk to a lifestyle center and plazas where music is playing," he said. "You have that quaintness. People lost touch with that when Levittown was built."
Mr. Wolkoff envisions a movie house, a theater for live performances, a plaza for free concerts and a museum and studio that he hopes will attract artist tenants. He developed a similar art colony called Five Point in Long Island City, Queens.
In addition to the 400,000-square-foot industrial and golf park next to his Pilgrim property, Mr. Wolkoff has also developed industrial and business complexes in Hauppauge and Queens. He has also built one- and two-family homes in Brooklyn and Staten Island.
But some question whether the finished Brentwood product, with a projected 12- to 17-year completion schedule, will live up to its original vision. "The developer may start out with one mix of uses and find that because of competition or changes in consumer preference that mix of uses might need to change," said Stuart Meck, a senior research fellow with the American Planning Association in Chicago. "It's difficult to plan with any degree of certainty much more than about four or five years out. The market may change."
Such vagaries will increase the pressure on Mr. Wolkoff to keep costs in check for the relatively young New Urban mixed-use concept he is proposing. "These projects are harder to get loans for because they don't easily fit into a simple category," said Andy Kunz, director of NewUrbanism.org, an Alexandria, Va., advocacy group.
Mr. Wolkoff will have to get loans. He said that he has spent $44 million of his own money on razing old Pilgrim buildings, but that he had promised his family that he would cap his personal investment at $100 million. 
He said that he would not reject a joint venture outright, but that he resists the idea because a partnership with outsiders could jeopardize his family's control of the project. Mr. Wolkoff, who is 66, said he has spent the past 15 years grooming his son Adam, 38, to step in to see his original vision through.
He said his inspiration is not Seaside, which was built from scratch, but another New Urban development in Florida: CityPlace, a $550-million mixed-use redevelopment of a formerly run-down area of West Palm Beach. But even the smaller-scale CityPlace encountered some bumps because it did not have the right commercial mix. Although Florida real estate agents said CityPlace has helped kick up area property values, some retailers have been shuttering their CityPlace stores for lack of traffic, and the development is reported to be losing more than $4 million per quarter.
"CityPlace had concentrated mostly on the higher-end shops and now they're trying to readjust it and bring in shops and restaurants with different price ranges," said Tom Davis, a real estate agent with Coldwell Banker in West Palm Beach.
Kenneth Himmel, chief executive of The Palladium Company, the Manhattan-based developer of CityPlace, cautioned that Mr. Wolkoff, with his industrial and residential background, risks failure if he does not find a joint venture partner experienced in retailing.
"He has to be very careful," Mr. Himmel said. "If he hasn't done this kind of thing before and hasn't got a deep level of retail experience, he will have a real challenge attracting retailers. A movie theater and ice skating rink doesn't support serious retailing. It's very hard to obtain the mix of retailing to make these projects sustainable."
Mr. Himmel said mixed-use developments such as CityPlace sometimes must intentionally overbuild in their first phases to capture public attention. "We probably overreached by as much as 100,000 square feet," the developer said of CityPlace. "We built to make sure we had the right impact."
Mr. Wolkoff said he would learn from others' mistakes. "I'm a pretty good copycat," he said. "I copy what they do and try to do it a little bit better. I'm not going to reinvent the wheel. Let them invent the wheel; I'll just show them how to merchandise it better. I've been doing this for 48 years. You don't have someone who's coming from the garment center."
Pending zoning and environmental approvals, he hopes for a 2006 first-phase ribbon cutting that unveils "all the apartments I can do," at least half the one million square feet planned for his entertainment and shopping areas and the first 200,000 square feet out of a planned total of three million square feet of office space, more than enough to fill the Empire State Building. He has also made room for the Long Island Aquarium, a project originally destined for Bay Shore.
Aiming to make the development upscale in appearance but not cost, Mr. Wolkoff said he plans 18 mid-price restaurants such as the Cheesecake Factory and Houston's. But some critics said residential rents at the complex, from $1,100 for a 600-square-foot studio to $2,933 for a 1,600-square-foot, three-bedroom apartment, elbow out too much of the population.
"That's not yet affordable," said Lee E. Koppelman, executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board. "Some of the units have to be earmarked for affordability."
The difficulty in setting rental fees underlines a Catch-22 enveloping the project. Mr. Wolkoff would need to charge rents that are high enough to justify the huge investment. But if he sets rents too high, he might not attract the young college graduates who make up a key constituency. Rethinking the rents in the face of recent criticism, Mr. Wolkoff said the other day that a studio apartment at Heartland Town Square would start at $800, a figure more comparable with area rents.
Community criticism is also prompting the developer to hasten the release of a traffic impact study within weeks to allay fears about traffic congestion, a concern cited by more than a few area residents. The development would not aggravate traffic much, Mr. Wolkoff asserted, because it would be close to the Long Island Expressway, the Sagtikos Parkway and the Deer Park L.I.R.R. station. Trolleys would ferry commuters between the complex and the station, he added.
One of the stickier points in Mr. Wolkoff's proposed development centers on its impact on the local school district, whose resources are already woefully thin. Mr. Wolkoff said that few if any children would live at the complex, but with more than 1,350 apartments earmarked as three-bedroom dwellings, experts said families are inevitable.
"How do you control that when you're talking about 9,000 units?" Dr. Koppelman said. "If you rent to a young couple when they just get married, what do you do when they start having children? You can't throw them out."
Mr. Wolkoff is hoping his three-bedroom units would attract empty-nesters who might have their grandchildren over, but only for visits. With no backyards, he said, the units are not geared to children.
"If an empty-nester comes to me and signs a lease, and the guy's in his 50's, the odds are he's not going to start raising a family," Mr. Wolkoff said. "They're going to have to sign a long-term lease with me if they want three bedrooms. I just have to check out legally if I can do things like that, but I believe I can."
Whatever the project's impact on enrollment, the school district would be the biggest beneficiary of some $53 million in tax revenues generated annually by the complex, said Pearl Kamer, the economist Mr. Wolkoff hired to crunch the numbers. About $40 million would go to the school district, while the remainder would be split among the county, Islip Town and Brentwood's emergency services and water providers.
Another skirmish involves the Long Island Pine Barrens Society, which wants Mr. Wolkoff to preserve 88 acres in the southeast corner of his industrial park as an additional water resource and preserved habitat. But Mr. Wolkoff adamantly rejects the idea, saying he needs the land to create more jobs, an integral element in creating the density that he said will make the rest of the development work.
"I can create jobs there, and that's very important for me to bring businesses there," Mr. Wolkoff said.
Some among the target market of young college graduates whom Mr. Wolkoff wants to attract are skeptical. Sammy Gergis, 23, moved back to his parents' Brentwood home after graduating from Boston University two years ago. Mr. Gergis, an analyst for Amerada Hess, the oil company, works in Manhattan, and said he doubted Mr. Wolkoff's development would attract big businesses that would pay comparable wages.
"I don't think the idea is feasible," Mr. Gergis said. "College graduates such as myself want the big bucks and that's why we go to Manhattan. We sacrifice three to six hours that we could spend at home with our parents or friends to commute or work longer hours in Manhattan to make more money and sustain the cost of living out here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: GERALD WOLKOFF wants to turn the Pilgrim Psychiatric Center site into the Island's largest mixed-use community, citing CityPlace in West Palm Beach, Fla., as his inspiration. (Gary I. Rothstein for The New York Times; Ed Betz, above left)(pg. 1); Most of Pilgrim Psychiatric Center in Brentwood has closed, leaving 460 acres for possible development. (Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 4) Chart/Map: "Not Just Another Development"Part of the Pilgrim State Hospital site would become Long Island's first development in the New Urban style, which promotes pedestrian-friendly, high-density, mixed-use designs antithetical to the suburban commuter-community model on which much of the Island is built. Map of Long Island shows the location of Heartland Town Square and surrounding area. (Source: Heartland Business Center)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); FAMILY (76%); SUBURBS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); EMPTY NESTERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JIM CARREY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



819 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: The View/From New Haven; 
As a Business Sets Up, A Group Takes Steps To Preserve a Landmark

BYLINE:  By C. J. HUGHES 

 BODY:
FOR decades, northbound travelers on Interstate 95 knew they had arrived in New Haven when they spotted the Pirelli building on the left-hand side. With its five-story upper tower improbably supported by two slender shafts -- like a piece of wedding cake on toothpicks -- the Marcel Breuer creation has become an odd if distinctive symbol of the Elm City, especially for those just passing through.
 Soon, however, the same structure may serve as a reminder that sleek and affordable modern furniture is available in Connecticut. 
 Next month, Ikea, the Swedish furniture company, will complete purchase of the building, the former North American headquarters of Pirelli Tire, which looms at the intersection of Interstate 91, overlooking Long Wharf and the harbor.
But there is still work to do before homeowners will be able to purchase desk chairs, table lamps and sofa beds. Ikea will erect a 300,000-square-foot blue-and-gold warehouse on the site and pave over the Pirelli's wide front lawn. The store also plans to demolish a 64,000-square-foot pedestal section of the L-shaped building, a move that would allow for 150 parking spaces. 
It is the pedestal proposal that has outraged the Long Wharf Advocacy Group, a 220-person coalition comprising national and international architects, student activists, urban bicyclists and open-space proponents who have put forth alternate plans.
Their argument boils down to this: Any attempt to chop off even a part of the Modernist edifice, which Breuer designed in 1968 for the Armstrong Rubber Company only two years after designing New York's Whitney Museum, is rash and misguided.
The group contends that if New Haven is going to improve its image after years of incisory highway projects, overaggressive urban renewal and suburban exodus, it needs to showcase its architectural gems, not conceal or alter them.
"The reason cities like New Haven and Bridgeport have many of the problems they do is precisely because of this type of shortsighted development," said Lana Berkovich, a co-director of Long Wharf Advocacy. "This will simply perpetuate a vicious cycle, and it doesn't fit with any larger plan for the city."
Last fall, the group managed to persuade Ikea to scale back its plans to level the building. On Nov. 7, however, New Haven's Board of Aldermen voted unanimously to approve the scaled-back plan, praising the move for how many jobs and tax dollars the store will bring with it.
In addition, on Jan. 15, the city dealt another blow to the project's opponents. The Department of City Planning voted 7 to 0 on the plan's final details, a further step toward the demolition of the pedestal section.
The only hope for preservationists, albeit a slim one, is if Ikea's corporate directors in Sweden step in on their behalf before the groundbreaking, which is scheduled for spring. Ikea's directors did not return calls seeking a comment.
What makes this zoning battle trickier than most is that the preservation side of the equation supports the project in principle. New Haven needs jobs and a revenue stream, and Ikea has guaranteed that its new store will create 250 full-time positions and 150 part-time, the majority of which will be set aside for local residents.
In addition, the city stands to gain $1 million a year in property tax revenue without handing away any tax breaks.
The situation has been particularly troublesome for politicians like Alderman John Halle, a Green Party member from the Ninth Ward, who agreed that New Haven's economy needed help but not at the expense of its heritage. Mr. Halle, like the 29 other aldermen, voted in favor of the project in November.
"For your average alderman, who is representing a really impoverished and underemployed constituency, this was easy to sign off on," Mr. Halle said. "But I think the plan to put a huge parking lot there is a desecration."
He added that the move would reinforce the suburb's opinions of New Haven as a place to maybe go shopping and then leave "as fast as possible."
Many architects, including the 1,350-member Connecticut chapter of the American Institute of Architects, oppose the current project on aesthetic grounds.
"Every city needs a building that helps make it known to the world, like the Sydney Opera House, and cutting off a piece of this building would absolutely ruin it," said Theo Prudon, a Columbia University architecture professor who serves as president of the preservation group DoCoMoMo, which stands for Documentation and Conservation of Buildings, Sites and Neighborhoods of the Modern Movement. The group fights on behalf of important 20th-century buildings worldwide.
"Would Ikea cut off some of the City Hall in Stockholm for more parking?" he said. 
Then there are open-space advocates, who are concerned that Ikea has not done enough in terms of the Vision Trail, a popular paved exercise path that connects downtown New Haven with the waterfront. Ikea has offered to relocate the trail around the new parking lot's perimeter and widen it, from about 12 feet to 21 feet, even though the majority of that extra width will not actually be paved trail, according to site plans.
"In essence, the Vision Trail will be reduced to a glorified sidewalk," said Christopher Ozyck, co-chairman of Vision Waterfront Committee and a creator of the Vision Trail. "My feeling here is that a cash-strapped city is mortgaging its future."
For their part, city leaders believe the economic gains from the project trump remaining architectural and land-use concerns. The plan seems especially attractive, they say, if you compare it with a proposal a few years back that would have allowed a sprawling shopping mall on the Pirelli site. The mall would have cost the city massive tax breaks, unlike this project.
"This is the one of the best development deals the city has ever done," said Henry Fernandez, New Haven's economic development administrator. "If people want a building to stand vacant as a testament to an earlier architectural period, then they are not responding to the needs of the community."
Ikea, meanwhile, is stuck with an unusual situation. The New Haven store will be the only one of 170 worldwide to incorporate an existing building into its site plan. Still, Ikea's United States headquarters, which is based outside Philadelphia in Plymouth Meeting, Pa., sees the deal as a triumph of negotiation.
"We're trying to save the integrity of a building while also looking out for our customers needs," said Pat Smith, Ikea's real estate director in the United States. "Besides, there is no other company in the world who could or wanted to use this building's space."
If that is the case, the Pirelli building's upper floors might go vacant for years to come. Ikea is not planning to move any of its offices into them but instead rent the space to local businesses.
Long Wharf Advocacy, however, will not let vacancy become an excuse to take down the interstate icon, now or in the future.
"We're going to watch what happens to it, and if it's something we think is detrimental, we are going to make our voices heard again," Ms. Berkovich said. "We think it's a valuable work of architecture, and we will do what we can to make sure it's used to its potential."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ikea, the Swedish furniture company, is set to complete purchase of the former Pirelli Tire building next month. The company is aiming to make structural changes, but Lana Berkovich, above, is among a group of people aiming to curtail the plans. (Photographs by C. M. Glover for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); FURNITURE STORES (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); OFFICE FURNITURE (70%); RUBBER & SILICONE (69%); APPROVALS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (50%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES 

COMPANY: INGKA HOLDING BV (86%)

ORGANIZATION: PIRELLI SPA; IKEA; LONG WHARF ADVOCACY GROUP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (86%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (86%)

PERSON: BREUER, MARCEL; HUGHES, C J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SWEDEN (77%) NEW HAVEN (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



820 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: ON THE JOB; 
The Fantasyof the Corner Office

BYLINE:  By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:
Judging by the mail, little stirs the imagination like the thought of taking the reins of a major corporation. From the United States Postal Service to McDonald's, no corporation seems immune from a takeover bid by a reader invited to be chief executive for a day. And even more refreshing was this: no one asked for a multimillion-dollar salary, stock options or a golden parachute.
 Frequently waiting in line at the post office in the crowded hour before closing, Bathsheba Grossman, a sculptor in Santa Cruz, Calif., thinks about what she will do "when they finally invite me to step out of the queue and take their corporate helm for a few months." 
 She says: "Simple is my watchword, and fortunately my course of action is clear, for the system is bizarre beyond baroque and byzantine. What's the difference between 'delivery confirmation' and 'return receipt requested'? Certified and registered? Which is cheaper for a 15-ounce parcel: First Class or Priority?"
Ms. Grossman's platform has three planks.
"One, simple services," she says. "I'll make the options Overnight, Two-Day, Regular, Economy. Maybe we don't need Overnight; do we want to compete with Federal Express?
"Two, flat rates. A fixed rate per ounce for each service. No irregularities, no zoning, no commercial rates. Is that the sound of junk mailers howling? Music to my ears.
"Three, simple authentication. I'll offer insurance coverage (at a flat rate per dollar value, of course), and the option to require a signature on delivery. A tracking number will come with either.
"That's all. No money orders (what are banks for?), no tax forms (if we're not part of the government anymore, why are we doing the I.R.S.'s job?). We'll spin off the boxes into a private venture; plenty of companies are doing that already.
"Now the New P.O. is lean, core-competent and ready to play to our strengths: easy rates, delivery to your door as regular as the rising sun and -- the big one -- ever more whackalicious stamps. Eat your heart out, U.P.S."
Elise Lee of Carmel, N.Y., has fond memories of the Mickey Mouse Club. Now 54 and an administrative assistant at an investment bank in Manhattan, she would choose to run the Walt Disney Company.
"I still find myself enchanted by the creators of the first-rate Disney Channel," Ms. Lee writes.
"As C.E.O. for the day, I would urge the production of more madcap screwball film comedies. Disney should focus more on what it does best. The films that are produced for its own channel are films that are more than movie-house and rental-store compatible, and ought to provide the corporation with a template for what the public craves.
"Instead of expanding Disney's theme parks and floating new boats, starting a chain of Disney movie theaters would be first on my agenda. Wonderful morsels, which the studio does to perfection, could be nationally released and subsequently available for rental in the on-premises rental shops."
Steve McKenna, writing from Edison, N.J., where he is the national sales manager for United Parcel Service, has his sights set on becoming chief executive for a day of the McDonald's Corporation. His recipe for reform lies in this philosophy: "We've largely forgotten who our customers are," he says. "And they do not go to McDonald's for boiled chicken and sprouts."
So, he says, he has "a blueprint for quickly returning the 'falling arches' to more halcyon days."
But he prefaces his proposals by stating that "as a rule, I do not consume their products, nor do I recommend that others do, either."
That said, here goes:
"Immediately get rid of parfaits, salads and any kind of healthy food and return to the business model that got us to where we are (were): burgers, fries, chicken, shakes.
"Yes, I know that we are, presumably, a health-obsessed populace. And six out of every 10 of us are overweight. And this is not going to change overnight. If Emeril Lagasse can successfully trumpet that 'pork fat rules,' then certainly we can claim that burgers, fries, etc., were good enough for our grandparents, parents and now all of us.
"Let Subway et al. have the market segment looking to reduce fat intake. Folks don't walk into a Subway and ask for a cheeseburger and fries. We need to get back to our knitting. The Beetle saved Volkswagen, and genuine Coca-Cola saved Coca-Cola.
"We need to remember what got us here!"
Speaking of Coca-Cola brings us to Christine Prieto Edmiston, a 16-year-old sophomore at Montclair High School in New Jersey. Coca-Cola tops the list of the large multinational companies with global reach that she would like to run. Others are Panasonic, British Airways and Nokia. For any and all, Ms. Edmiston writes:
"As chairperson I would encourage my offices throughout the world to partner with schools (in a cost-effective way) and have my managers show students how math, the sciences, world languages, writing, computers, athletics and extracurricular activities are applied in the business world.
"In effect, we would be showing the connection between learning, business and future benefits.
"This initiative would make academic work for students more relevant, while for my company, the benefits would include better public relations, increased brand loyalty (for current and future customers) and a greater social consciousness."
(P.S.: Ms. Edmiston is planning on a career in business.)

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); STOCK OPTIONS (71%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); COMEDY FILMS (60%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (81%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (58%); DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (84%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (81%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (81%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: VAN GELDER, LAWRENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



821 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Mosquitoes, Death and New Jersey 

BYLINE:  By SANDRA SALMANS 

DATELINE: BLOOMFIELD 

 BODY:
IN John Schnall's animated films, even the skeletons have interior lives.
 In his 1990 short "Grim," the Grim Reaper dozes over his death warrants, dreaming about a Caribbean vacation where he leads beachgoers in a limbo under his scythe and, naturally, to their death. When death takes a holiday in Mr. Schnall's films, that is exactly what happens. 
 "I was never the kind of animator who could do Disney," said Mr. Schnall, 42, who was born in Colonia and lives here in Bloomfield, and derives much of his inspiration from his home state's gritty reality.
Mr. Schnall's films have been shown on Cinemax, on PBS's Sesame Street and on Comedy Central, and at numerous festivals. His animated short about the attack on the World Trade Center, "NYC: 9/11," which appeared on Cinemax on Sept. 11 of last year, will be shown at New Jersey's annual Black Maria Film and Video Festival, which opens this weekend. The film, one of several short independent documentaries shown by Cinemax on the Sept. 11 anniversary, sums up the attack in a single minute.
At first, about two dozen animated figures crisscross New York, all comically self-absorbed. "Me," each proclaims. "Me." Suddenly, a dark cloud covers lower Manhattan. The figures are momentarily stilled. Then they coalesce into the shape "us." 
The film is neither sentimental nor flag-waving. "It's really poignant," said John Columbus, director of the Black Maria, noting that it has an "economy of form" characteristic of Mr. Schnall's work. 
But, as Mr. Columbus added, the poignancy is rare for a Schnall film. More typical is "I Was a Thanksgiving Turkey," in which the holiday feast is seen from a turkey's point of view; or "Opposing Views," in which a chicken and an egg debate which came first, and both end up in the skillet; or "Goodnight Norma . . . Goodnight Milton," in which a couple gets ready for bed, stripping to their underwear, then to their skin and finally to their skeletons, popping out their eyeballs and, with a sigh of relief, removing their brains. 
"He has a dark sense of humor, ironic," Mr. Columbus said. "It's playful and irreverent, and gives us a perspective on ourselves and our culture."
Mr. Schnall's family moved to South Orange when he was in second grade. He started doing animation while in high school in Maplewood. But he did not think he drew well enough to be a professional. That changed when he went to New York University and decided that animation was as much about character as about drafting. 
"The biggest appeal of animation is to give characters, or, in my case, a skeleton, a life and personality," he said.
In 1991 his short "A Day in the Life of a Mosquito" appeared at the Black Maria festival. Like the turkey and chicken-and-egg shorts, this one identified with the bottom of the food chain. The film, Mr. Schnall said solemnly, "does not end well." 
Mr. Schnall broke into the big time, in animation circles, with a short, "The Black Sabbath Show," commissioned by Comedy Central. The piece follows the imaginary exploits of a group of rock stars, including Ozzy Osbourne, traveling together. It is, Mr. Schnall volunteered readily, "completely gross." Somewhat ruefully, he observed, "I got my biggest following from the thing I have the least connection with."
His humor attracted the attention of Jim Jinkins, creator of the cartoon "Doug," which first appeared on Nickelodeon and later ran on the Disney Channel. Mr. Jinkins also is a co-founder of Cartoon Pizza, a New York animation house.
Mr. Jinkins hired Mr. Schnall to direct 13 one-minute films for Sesame Street that feature "Global Thingy," a planet-shaped character that works with other figures of various shapes. The shorts, which will begin running this spring, are designed to help children develop respect for diversity.
Over the years, Mr. Schnall has created 12 other spots for Sesame Street, including ones in which playing cards did a limbo and a mambo to illustrate the letters "L" and "M."
Disclaimers aside, Mr. Schnall is doing work for Disney, directing a half-hour weekly show, "Joe-Joe's Circus," also produced by Cartoon Pizza. Aimed at preschoolers, it will premiere on the Disney Channel this fall.
"He understands comedy, movement, story-telling," Mr. Jinkins said. "We both tend to stay calm, even with crazy deadlines."
Staying calm seems to be a valuable quality for animation, which remains a painstaking effort even though computers now do much of the grunt work. Mr. Schnall said he still likes to do his own drawings by hand. He admits to being a "control freak" who "spends three weeks worrying about how an arm moves."
Mr. Schnall continues to do his own shorts as Quality-Schnallity, a one-man company that recruits family and friends to supply the voices in his films. He works out of the basement of the home he shares with Luciano Borges, a Brazilian entrepreneur.
In many ways, what he connects with is New Jersey. Local landmarks populate his films. He used the interior of his childhood home for "Frankenstein." The wheezing sound of the elevator that the Grim Reaper takes to his desk job on the 13th floor in "Grim" was taped in the South Orange library. Asked whether the mosquito short was inspired by New Jersey, he replied, "How could it not be?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Schnall at home in Bloomfield with a scene from his short "NYC: 9/11," to be shown at the Black Maria Film & Video Festival. (John W. Wheeler for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMATION (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FILM (90%); ANIMATED FILMS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); THANKSGIVING (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); TERRORISM (68%) MOTION PICTURES; BLACK MARIA FILM AND VIDEO FESTIVAL; TERRORISM 

PERSON: SCHNALL, JOHN; SALMANS, SANDRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: NYC: 9/11 (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



822 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey; 
Using Art to Increase the Marketability of Offices

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN 

 BODY:
AESTHETHICS and "frills." Conventional wisdom might suggest that those are the first things to cut when the real estate market gets tough. 
 Absolutely not, say a number of significant players in New Jersey's commercial market, because those things are crucial to tenants' happiness. 
 "We take the approach that fine art and unique, creative design are essential qualities at our properties," said Todd Rechler, managing director of the state division of the Reckson Associates Realty Corporation. "They determine the quality of life for those who work, do business and live a significant part of their days in a building." 
Even in slow economic times -- perhaps, especially in slow economic times -- Mr. Rechler said, many companies want to provide a workplace that is comfortable and even uplifting.
Dorothy Zarnick, a principal of the Aztec Corporation, an architecture and design firm, agreed. "Artwork, artistic touches, landscaping and design transform uninteresting buildings into warm, vibrant places where people are happy to be," she said. "Many companies recognize the continuing importance of that."
Aztec offers various services to commercial properties, both offices and stores. Recently, Ms. Zarnick said, she was called upon to set up a temporary gallery in a back hall of the Troy Corporation's offices in Florham Park. Troy, which also has offices in France, belongs to the Toulouse Lautrec Foundation, an international group honoring the work of the French Impressionist painter. The hallways showed work done in the style of Lautrec for a poster art competition. "It was wonderful," Ms. Zarnick said. "That space came alive. You could just feel positive energy being generated."
Peter J. Cocoziello, president and chief executive of Advance Realty Group, based in Bedminster, talked about generating energy with art in the office, too -- although he acknowledged that on at least one occasion. the "energy" had not been positive. .
"We recognize that for our office buildings to be truly successful, tenants must enjoy the aesthetics and ambience," Mr. Cocoziello said. "Innovative and dramatic artwork is just one of the ways we try and bring our buildings to life."
Several years ago, he decided the art that graced most workplaces was "too minor." Mr. Cocoziello brought in a fresco painter to recreate panels from classic works he had seen in Florence for several office lobbies in New Jersey. The painter, Andrea Heinisch of Florence, who Mr. Cocoziello said is an expert in restoration of classical works, delivered a lecture in Bedminster on Renaissance masters like Michelangelo, Piero della Francesca and Raphael.
"The idea was to enrich understanding, and response, for the people who see these paintings every day," Mr. Cocoziello said, "and I know this happened."
IT also happened, however, that employees in one Advance building objected so strongly to a painting that it had to be removed. The fresco featured a rearing stallion in all his glory, and workers in the building thought it was too explicit, Mr. Cocoziello said.
"I was really sorry about that," he said. "I love the statue of Mercury, and I had been thinking of putting Mercury in our buildings -- but not if I'd have to modify it with a fig leaf or something."
Mr. Cocoziello said that experience made him realize how differently European and American cultures perceive art. "In Florence, you walk down the street, and there is not a place you can look that you don't see a very nice piece of artwork, oftentimes a thousand years old. It's part of meaning and fabric of life."
Here, said Mr. Cocoziello, art tends to be something extra and apart from daily life, and depictions of nudity are not something people expect to see in an office lobby.
He is still working on it. "We're trying to do more and more in our buildings," he said, noting that he is thinking of installing some bronze sculptures at various properties Advance owns or manages. "The question for me becomes, How can I incorporate some of this great art into a real estate perspective?"
Mr. Cocoziello said he personally enjoys art that provokes deep emotion, but noted that paintings can be "gorgeous, beautiful, but not move you," and he wondered if a cooler style would appeal to more people.
Mr. Rechler of Reckson Associates said his company began developing the concept of artwork as an amenity in offices more than 25 years ago. It now maintains a public art gallery at its flagship property, the 575,000-square-foot Omni in Uniondale on Long Island, where it mostly exhibits the work of Long Island artists. In Manhattan, a group of photos by the noted Life magazine photographer Gordon Parks recently purchased by Reckson are on display in the lobby of 919 Third Avenue.
Every Reckson building features "major" artwork, Mr. Rechler said. In New Jersey, he said, he is stressing artful design in its buildings. Last year, Reckson redesigned an old and vacant office complex on Broad Street in Clifton, putting a new exterior on the structure with textured panels and building a marble and glass lobby to display artworks of various genres, he said.
Currently, Mr. Rechler said, the company is at work on an office building at 101 JFK Parkway in Short Hills once occupied by AT&T and then leased by American Express after the Sept. 11 attack in Manhattan. American Express has already vacated the building, Mr. Rechler said, but its lease expires at midyear.
"We are using artworks and new design elements to create a warm, interesting work environment that will attract the next tenant," he said.
Dun & Bradstreet has moved into an adjoining building at 103 JFK Parkway that Reckson has renovated with attention to high-quality design touches, including interior use of limestone and specialty woods, fabric wall coverings, framed paintings and glass display cases holding artifacts and collectibles.
Ms. Zarnick said that her firm had done a number of projects that involve "displaying gadgets in some artful way." For an electrical contractor on Staten Island, an abstract sculpture made of light bulb components was produced for the front lawn. For Nascar, parts of racecars were incorporated as furniture and decoration in the office reception area. For a publisher with offices in New Jersey, a collage comprising company brochures, snippets of book reviews and other printed material was created.
Another New Jersey firm was the catalyst for creating an artwork to honor local history in the renovation of a shopping center. Last summer, the Levin Management Corporation, the management and construction agent for the Galloping Hill Center in Union, came up with the idea of creating a galloping horse symbol. Galloping Hill Road, where the shopping center is located, was an Indian trail during the Revolutionary War and the path taken by a mounted messenger sent from Elizabethtown to Gen. George Washington's headquarters 22 miles away in Morristown to warn him that 5,000 British troops were advancing. The Continental Army ultimately thwarted the British column's attempt to pass through.
"We wanted to do something different from the norm," said Laine Kaufman, co-managing partner for Alshak Realty, the property owner, "and present an homage to Union's colonial heritage."
A Washington artist specializing in equine sculptures was commissioned to design and build a 7-foot long, 14-foot-tall, stainless steel abstract horse to top the pylon signs at the shopping center's entrance. The sculptor was careful to capture the motion of a horse in full gallop, Mr. Kaufman noted, and also to design a sculpture that would be maintenance free, secure in high winds and even bird-nest resistant. Deoxidized stainless steel is not suitable for perching, according to art and ornithological experts.
"The statue has become a source of pride for our town," Union's mayor, Patrick Scanlon, said at the dedication. He noted that the shopping center is one of the busiest in Union County and said it was satisfying to think of shoppers being enriched by local history and symbolism as they come to spend their money in his town.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter J. Cocoziello, chief executive of Advance Realty Group, uses artwork to "bring our buildings to life." (Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PAINTING (89%); LOBBYING (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (71%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; ART; DESIGN 

COMPANY: SL GREEN REALTY CORP (72%); TROY CORP (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AZTEC CORP 

TICKER: SLG (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (67%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (67%)

PERSON: MARTIN, ANTOINETTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (79%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



823 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Aid for the Arts Amid Fiscal Worry 

BYLINE:  By ROBERTA HERSHENSON

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS 

 BODY:
THE Arts Alive awards ceremony held at the Westchester Arts Council here Jan. 17 had the celebratory feel of a graduation. Dozens of people, from volunteers in local arts efforts to mayors and State Assembly representatives, gathered to hear the names of those receiving $1,000 to $5,000 grants for community-based programs. 
 The council distributes Arts Alive grants, which totaled $58,000 this year, from money received from the Decentralization Program of the New York State Council on the Arts. Two panels decide the awards, the first a seven-member committee of Westchester artists and arts officials that makes initial recommendations, and the second a five-member Westchester Arts Council committee headed by Judy Matson, a board member. She said 67 applications were submitted this year; of those, 42 groups and 2 artists won awards. 
 The buoyant atmosphere at the ceremony contrasted with growing concern over how the arts will fare when the financially strapped state draws up its new budget. A telling moment occurred when Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky of Greenburgh rose to speak. "For some reason, I just found a razor blade on the podium," he said. Without missing a beat Barry Charles Hoffman, music director and founder of the Westchester Chamber Orchestra, called out from the audience, "No cuts!" 
Mr. Brodsky called the arts "the economic heartbeat of our communities," adding, "I remain convinced that the arts are worth funding for the intrinsic value of art itself." He then assured his listeners that although times were difficult, "we can't afford economically or spiritually to walk away from our commitment to the arts."
Steve Jones, a program analyst with the New York State Council on the Arts, said by phone last week that while arts groups statewide would have to "share in any increases or decreases" in financing, the state would try to keep the money flowing to the Westchester Arts Council. "They do an extraordinary job in promoting arts and culture in Westchester County," he said.
Arts Alive grants provide help new and emerging groups establish a presence and develop a following in their villages and towns. The relatively modest grants favor projects that take place in less affluent neighborhoods, or that increase the ethnic diversity of the county's cultural life. For example, Songcatchers, which received $4,200, one of the largest grants, will work with the Westchester Chamber Orchestra to teach children in New Rochelle how to compose orchestral music. Many of the children who take instrumental lessons from volunteer teachers after school at Songcatchers are unable to pay even the $5 for a lesson that the group normally charges. The Arts Alive project will bring 12 children ages 8 through 14 together with Jon Deak, a bass player with the New York Philharmonic, and Charles Griffin, a noted composer.
The cost of the composition project is $12,000; the group is seeking other grants. 
Another group, Hamm & Clove Stage Company of Yonkers, has a $1,700 grant to develop a theater piece with Irish immigrants that is scheduled to be presented in Yonkers in June. Last spring, the group undertook a similar project with Spanish-speaking immigrants. Holly Villaire, the producing artistic director, said the grant was important not only financially but also as "an affirmation from the people that run our government that people need to see themselves mirrored in the arts."
Piper Theater Productions, which presents free Shakespeare productions in Untermeyer Park in Yonkers, received $1,800 for productions of "Richard III" and "As You Like It" to be held next summer, nearly double last year's grant of $1,000. The award provides recognition that "there's a thriving new Westchester arts group," said Rachel McEneny, executive director. "It helps when we go out to other funders for support."
Sarah Bracey White, executive director of the Greenburgh Arts and Culture Committee, said that the $3,500 her group received this year for creative writing workshops for children ages 9 through 15 "allows me to expand a successful program to include more children." 
Other awards support general music programs, like summer band concerts in Scarsdale and Eastchester, Brazilian music in Ardsley and free lunchtime concerts in downtown White Plains. Collegium Westchester, a 30-member volunteer and professional chorus that performs free at the 400-seat First Presbyterian Church in Ossining, received $1,000 for two concerts that will give the group's music director, Eric Kramer, the chance to have his own compositions performed along with pieces from the classical repertory. 
Two individual artists received grants of $2,500. Esther Lo, a painter and photographer from Scarsdale, plans to produce a series of oil paintings devoted to the county's native flowers. Andrew Courtney, a Croton-on-Hudson photographer, plans to document the Arab population in Westchester and exhibit his work next fall. "This is an antiwar activity," he said, adding that it is also a stand against negative stereotyping.
The council holds workshops to help groups apply for Arts Alive grants. Peter Iasillo Jr., founder and director of the newly formed Black American Drama Group, which applied but did not receive any money, said the council had encouraged him to try again next year. Ms. Matson explained that while the awards are intended for new groups, the organization needs to have a track record. The scope of the project must also be sharply focused, she said. 
The council is required by the state to set aside some money for appeals. Groups have 30 days to appeal the decision, and that period is nearly over, said Barrie Gelles, a council grants coordinator. She said increases will be allotted to grants recipients from the reserved money as recommended by the committee.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Creative writing workshop for children, run by the Greenburgh Arts and Culture Committee, which received an Arts Alive award. (Greenburgh Arts and Culture Committee) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); VOLUNTEERS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (87%); MUSIC (87%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (87%); CHILDREN (84%); BUDGETS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (66%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



824 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3154 words

HEADLINE: Tenants Adjust To Life After Mitchell-Lama 

BYLINE:  By NADINE BROZAN 

 BODY:
WHEN residents of Mitchell-Lama apartments, accustomed to paying well below market rate rents, learn that their landlords are planning to take their buildings out of the program through a buyout procedure, panic and resentment often ensue, sometimes followed by years of exhaustive litigation. 
 Even after agreements releasing buildings from the program's constraints are reached, legal maneuvering and bitter feelings can persist for years. While there have been exceptions, the path out of Mitchell-Lama regulation is rarely smooth. 
 "With a buyout comes the possibility that apartments will go to market rate, putting them out of the reach of the folks who live there," said C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president, who established a task force in 1999 meant to "slow the process down or completely stop it." 
Tenants, she said, "thought Mitchell-Lama would forever allow them to live in affordable housing, and the fact that buyouts have occurred makes them wonder what potentially could be next." 
Ruth Lerner, who was the manager of Waterside Plaza, which juts into the East River at 26th to 29th Street, during the years it was emerging from Mitchell-Lama, 1999 to 2001, adds a more immediate concern. "If you hadn't had a rent increase in 12 years, and now you get one every year, how would you feel?" she asked. 
The Private Housing Finance Law, which governs Mitchell-Lama developments, permits developers to withdraw from the program after 20 years by prepaying their mortgages and taking other financial steps. With the last project completed in 1978, the 20-year escape hatch has now completely opened. 
Established in 1955 by the New York State Legislature, the Mitchell-Lama program was created to spur production of middle-income housing by offering developers of rentals or co-ops low interest mortgages and generous tax abatements. In exchange, they had to place caps on their rents and could not impose increases unless profits fell below 6 percent. Additional benefits were given to those who built on urban renewal land.
Without giving developers the option of taking their buildings out of the program after a set time, it was believed, builders would not have been motivated to put up moderate income housing. "When Mitchell-Lama was started, it had a 35-year buyout but no takers, so it was decreased to 25 and then 20," said Lee Chong, director of land use, housing and development for Ms. Fields's office and head of its Mitchell-Lama Task Force.
All told, about 105,000 units of housing in 269 developments, most of them in New York City or nearby suburbs, were built under the Mitchell-Lama banner. 
To date, 18 owners of Mitchell-Lama buildings supervised by the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development and 22 under the state's Division of Housing and Community Renewal have bought out.
"There are about 60,000 units in the city-sponsored program, about 5,000 of which have gone out since 1989," said Julie Walpert, assistant commissioner of H.P.D., who is in charge of its Mitchell-Lama program. "That is not many buyouts." 
Ms. Chong sees it differently. "From 1998 to today, in Manhattan alone we have lost 2,724 units and 5,962 are at risk because owners have made application to dissolve their Mitchell-Lama program," she said. "If we don't replace the housing lost to buyouts, we will see an exodus of moderate and middle income people leaving the city, the backbone of the city, blue collar workers."
To qualify for Mitchell-Lama apartments, tenants could not have a household income more than seven times the annual rent for families of one to three and eight times the rent for families of four or more. Tenants earning more must pay a surcharge.
Tenant advocates foresee in the movement by owners to leave the Mitchell-Lama program a wave of buyouts that will push rents out of the range of people with modest incomes. "The supply of Mitchell-Lama has been incredibly important in terms of the overall market," said Michael McKee, associate director of the New York State Tenants and Neighbors Coalition, "but it never came close to ending the housing shortage. I think it is unconscionable that the government provided tremendous subsidies to produce affordable housing that is not permanently affordable."
But, as Robert S. Nelson, who has brought 11 buildings with 3,000 units in the Bronx out of Mitchell-Lama, sees it, owners are only asking what is due them. "Any time you purchase an apartment building and put substantial equity in it, you are taking a risk," he said. "You expect those risks to be commensurate with a certain reward. And when you sign a contract, it is important that both parties keep up their end of the bargain." 
Josephine Cinquemani, president of the tenants association at Hazel Towers, a 300-unit building in the Pelham Bay section of the Bronx owned by Mr. Nelson, said she was happy to see Mitchell-Lama go because she felt there were too many rules. "There are always people who are unhappy, but we were pushing for it years ago," she said. The landlord has invested in capital improvements, including new windows. "Now we have one of the nicest buildings in the neighborhood and people want to get in." The rent on Ms. Cinquemani's three-bedroom apartment was $1,009 when the Mitchell-Lama ceiling was lifted in 1999. Now it is $1,100.
Owners of rental projects in Manhattan and Brooklyn have seven pending applications with the city and five with the state to leave the program. Only two co-ops, Anthony J. Contello in Brooklyn and LaFontaine in the Bronx, have bought out, but others like the giant Co-op City in the Bronx are considering doing so. 
Whether buildings that leave the Mitchell-Lama program continue under another set of rent restrictions or can go to market-rate rents depends on when they were built. Buildings completed before Jan. 1, 1974, that leave Mitchell-Lama move automatically into the rent stabilization system, with annual increases set by the city's Rent Guidelines Board. (Those increases are currently 2 percent for a one-year renewal lease and 4 percent for a two-year renewal.) 
Apartments finished after that date do not have to move into the rent stabilization program after leaving Mitchell-Lama. So far, most of the buildings coming out of the program were built before the cutoff date and therefore are now covered by the rent stabilization program's controls.
Buying the buildings out of the Mitchell-Lama program can require a significant investment by owners, making the low interest rates of recent years a key element in their decisions. 
"Until about four years ago, it was too expensive to buy out because the developers had to pay the outstanding mortgage plus renovation costs to collect market rent, and whatever income tax liability was incurred," said Stuart M. Saft, chairman of the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums and a lawyer who sometimes represents tenants. "All that necessitated borrowing substantial amounts of money."
The move from one set of rent limits to another has not promoted harmony between tenants and landlords or, for that matter, among competing groups of tenants.
Lawyers for both landlords and tenants are closely watching the continuing legal skirmishes at Westgate Apartments, a cluster of three buildings with 427 apartments on West 96th and 97th Streets between Columbus and Amsterdam Avenues, where both sides expect to eventually see a crucial ruling. The case focuses on the ability of a landlord whose buildings has left Mitchell-Lama and moved to rent stabilization to reset the basis on which those rents are computed. 
Four months after the transition into rent stabilization in 1998, the tenants appealed to the state Division of Housing and Community Renewal for reduction of their new rents based on what they claimed to be a decrease in services. 
At the same time, the owners, KSLM-Columbus Apartments applied for an increase in the permissible rents citing a clause in the law granting relief for "unique and peculiar" circumstances when rents are demonstrably lower than they are in comparable apartments. The state rejected the applications, and the tenants and owners both filed lawsuits.
"When they announced in 1998 that they were going to buy out, their position was that they could get major rent increases and no one could stop them," said Jean Dorsey, the president of the Westgate Tenants Association, who has her own technology and strategy consulting firm. "When we got a letter saying our rents would go up 300 percent, we formed a legal committee." 
"We were the urban homesteaders living here when this place was funky rather than fabulous," she continued. "We are multiracial, multiethnic and multieconomic, and if we want buildings where mailmen and teachers can live, we ought to be replicating this, not destroying it." 
In subsequent years, residents and management squared off over everything from the renewal of leases to the operation of the parking garage. 
But it is the challenge of "unique and peculiar circumstances" that is being watched most carefully outside the Westgate community. "The other issues are important, but they are the battles and this is the war," said William Gribben, the lawyer representing the tenants' association. "The increases being sought range from triple to seven times the current rents."
Average rents in Westgate are $450 for studio apartments; $593 for one-bedrooms; $518 for two-bedrooms, which are lower than one-bedrooms because they have turned over at a slower rate; and $640 for three-bedrooms. 
A report on rentals between January and June last year, the most recent data available, issued by the Halstead/Feathered Nest brokerage firm listed rents in rent-stabilized apartments on the Upper West Side that, like the Westgate, do not have doormen, as $1,503 for studios, $2,075 for one-bedrooms, $2,698 for two-bedrooms. 
Nicholas Kamillatos, a lawyer who represents KSLM-Columbus Apartments, would not divulge what rents were being sought, but did say: "The disparity between the initial rent stabilization rents and the prevailing rents in comparable apartments is compelling. They should be adjusted."
KSLM-Columbus Apartments has filed notice of its intention to take the matter to the Appellate Divison, seeking to reverse the Supreme Court decision to uphold the Division of Housing and Community Renewal's denial of the owner's application for rent increases. 
DESPITE the clarity with which the law spells out the right of owners to withdraw from Mitchell-Lama, some tenants' associations and their lawyers have found loopholes, primarily in the form of covenants written into land disposition agreements stipulating that properties remain affordable for longer periods of time.
That was the case in the settlement reached between Yorkville Towers Associates and residents of Ruppert Yorkville Towers, two brick buildings with four towers stretching from 90th to 92d Streets between Second and Third Avenue. The development is about to become a hybrid condominium-rental complex.
The project, developed by the DeMatteis Organization, went up in 1974 and 1975 and thus is not subject to the requirement that it enter the rent stabilization program after leaving Mitchell-Lama. 
"But there was a difference of opinion about their right to a buyout," said Mr. Saft, who represents the tenants there. "We found in a land disposition agreement a clause stating that it would remain available as low and moderate income housing for 40 years."
"We litigated for about two years and held up the buyout for a total of four years," he said. "We estimated that during that period tenants saved about $80 million in increases. Then we started talking about a settlement." 
As a result, tenants were given the option of purchasing their apartments at a 20 percent discount from what appraisers deemed outsiders would pay plus a 10 percent fix-up allowance. To reserve their apartments -- or the right to sell them to outsiders -- tenants had to put down $1,000, which was nonrefundable. 
As of Wednesday, 863 purchase agreements had been signed, said Robert J. Klehammer, vice president of R. Y. Management, the sales and management agents for the property. But it is too early to tell how many of those represent people who will remain in the buildings and how many will flip, or resell, them at market prices.
The preclosings, at which buyers execute all documents with the condo and the lenders, are scheduled to begin tomorrow, with the closings to start on Feb. 20. Until then, residents can withdraw without forfeiting their right to rent.
According to Karen Duncan, a vice president of the Corcoran Group, tenants who are buying studios are paying an average of about $144,550 compared with an average of about $206,000 for outsiders. The average inside price on one-bedrooms is $265,000, compared with $379,000 for outsiders. Two-bedrooms are going for about $408,000 and $583,000, respectively, and three-bedrooms for $462,000 and $660,000.
Renters whose incomes are less than the area median income -- $43,960 for an individual, $62,800 for a family of four -- are eligible for one of two subsidy programs, one for people earning less than 80 percent of the area median income and the other for those with incomes between 80 and 100 percent of median. 
Those whose incomes exceed the median will pay one-third of their income or their current rent or an adjusted rent predicated on what it would have been had increases been permitted (there has been no raise in rents since 1982), whichever is the greatest.
"In no event will anyone pay more than a 50 percent increase for the first renewal lease," said Mr. Klehammer, a former assistant commissioner of the city agency that oversees the Mitchell-Lama program. 
Conrad Eberstein, an original tenant in Ruppert Towers and vice president of the Ruppert-Yorkville Tenants Association, has mixed feelings about the settlement. "People on limited incomes are protected and clearly people with tons of money are protected, but it's the people in the middle I worry about," he said. "They are too rich to get a subsidy and not wealthy enough to buy easily."
Ascertaining the completion date for the buildings at Waterside Plaza, the complex that protrudes into the East River from 26th to 29th Street, became the deciding factor for the establishment of rents after its removal from Mitchell-Lama by its developer, Richard Ravitch, a former chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. 
A community unto itself with four towers and 20 town houses surrounding a two acre plaza, the complex was partly completed before 1974, and partly after. "We made the argument that because we were really one horizontal mutiple dwelling we were one entity and weren't completed until the last building was finished," Ms. Lerner said. 
"There were a lot of delaying tactics used, but finally the D.H.C.R. suggested we split our differences down the middle and forget the concept of horizontal multiple dwelling," she said. After more than two and a half years of wrangling, the rent increases were set at 9 percent a year for two years and 7.5 percent every year thereafter. The first increase went into effect on Nov. 1, 2001. 
Even though they had a rider in their leases stating that they would come under rent stablization after Mitchell-Lama, residents agreed to forego the protection of stabilization. "If we had lost in our appeal to the state, then the entire complex could have gone to market rate," said B. J. Handal, the current president of the Waterside Tenants Association and its former treasurer. "The tenants essentially made a decision to take what was not a great deal but better than being forced out." 
Norma Davis has lived in North Waterside, a building with 370 federally subsidized units for low income tenants for 29 years. Under the terms of the settlement, those who qualify were granted what are known as enhanced vouchers through the federal Section 8 program. 
"That means that they will pay 30 percent of their gross income, and the government will make up the difference between that and the market rate," said Ms. Davis, whose own income as a laboratory technician in a physician's offfice, has made her ineligible for the subsidy. 
She voluntarily moved from a three-bedroom apartment where she had raised two children to a one-bedroom, "because I was above the voucher level and realized that after the settlement my rent would soar," she explained. Her next increase, coming due shortly, will raise her rent to $900 a month. "In five years when I retire, my rent will probably double and I will probably be out," she said.
Mr. Ravitch called the settlement "a good solution to an impossibly difficult problem," Had he been left to his own devices to reconfigure the rents, he said, "I would never have gone to market rate. At this point in my life and career, I'm not about to throw anyone out. I spent two years working out various scenarios so no one would have to move out. But the tenants insisted on going to the mat."
In the end, he said, "Tenants benefited by not having draconian rent increases, and we got the benefit of the bargain we made with the government 30 years ago."
WHATEVER apprehensions the tenants of two 23-story buildings with 440 units each in the Brighton Beach section of Brooklyn known as Trump Village Section 1 and Section 2 had before they were taken out of Mitchell-Lama by Fred Trump in 1992, they have been assuaged by the passage of time.
"People were very upset and afraid of increases, but no one moved out," said Susan Shavitz, vice president of the Section 2 tenants association, who is a teacher. Along with her mother, Lillian Grayer, she was an original tenant. 
Under Mitchell-Lama, the two women paid $650 a month, which included a surcharge because their household income exceeded guidelines, for their two bedroom apartment. Now they are paying $990. 
"On the whole, management has been very responsive and responsible," Ms. Shavitz said. But, she added, "I do wish it had remained in Mitchell-Lama or that management had sold us our apartment. It hurts to pay more and more rent."
To Ms. Lerner, who at various times, has worked for city's Mitchell-Lama program, tenants and a major developer, the debate cuts deeper than any individual or building. 
"More important than any lingering tension is the bigger issue of what happens to middle-income housing," she said. "We have the mayor talking about doing affordable housing and keeping middle-income people in the city with high cost new construction. Why not a concerted effort by the city and state to keep the remaining Mitchell-Lamas in the program. The cost of preserving middle-income housing is only a fraction of building new, at $300,000 a unit."
Acknowledging the right of landlords to buy out, she asked, "Is there no inducement in the world that would keep them in the program for another 10 or 20 years?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jean Dorsey, tenants' president at Westgate Apartments, where move from Mitchell-Lama to rent stabilization brought repeated legal battles. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); Stuart M. Saft, tenants' lawyer; Lila Dyas, tenants' president; Conrad Eberstein, vice president, at Ruppert Towers. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Norma Davis, who has lived at Waterside Plaza for 29 years, has moved from a three-bedroom unit to a one-bedroom, but she expects future annual increases of 7.5 percent to make her rent prohibitive by the time she retires in five years. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); A meeting of the Mitchell-Lama Task Force, which was established in 1999 by C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); LITIGATION (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TAX LAW (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) HOUSING; MITCHELL-LAMA PROJECTS; RENTING AND LEASING; COOPERATIVES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; MORTGAGES 

PERSON: BROZAN, NADINE; FIELDS, C VIRGINIA (BORO PRES); CHONG, LEE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



825 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1100 words

PERSON: Fujio Cho 

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR; 
A Car Man Who's Stuck in Drive

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD 

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
AS a young Toyota manager in Japan in the mid-70's, Fujio Cho was assigned to learn the Toyota Production System, which stresses efficient manufacturing methods, from its intimidating creator, Taichi Ohno. One day, Mr. Cho demonstrated to Dr. Ohno how he had shrunk inventories sharply, accomplishing what Mr. Cho had been taught was one of the system's primary tenets.
 To his shock, Dr. Ohno was furious. "Are you stupid?" he raged. Japan, Dr. Ohno pointed out, was coming out of a recession. Consumer demand was about to climb. "This is the beginning of the boom, and we need to add inventories," he said; Mr. Cho needed to look forward, not back. 
 Mr. Cho has never forgotten that lesson. As president and chief executive of Toyota Motor, he is pushing it to become the world's premier automaker. Right now, the company is in front of Ford Motor and behind General Motors in sales.
By 2010, Mr. Cho has told employees, he wants Toyota to hold 15 percent of global sales, up from about 10 percent in 2002. That would probably put it ahead of G.M., with 15 percent now but gradually slipping even as its domestic share increases.
It is a goal that some analysts question, given the ruthless competition that auto companies face in the United States and Europe, and the weakness of auto sales in Japan, where companies have faced a sluggish market for a decade. And while Toyota sold 1.7 million cars and trucks last year in the United States, its biggest market, it remains in fourth place, behind Chrysler.
But Mr. Cho said he saw plenty of opportunity in developing markets like China, where Toyota just opened its first plant, and was not about to stop his push in the United States, either. This year, Toyota is expanding production at its truck plant in Princeton, Ind.; it is building another small-truck plant in Mexico; and it is expected to announce plans soon for its third assembly plant in the United States, with Texas, Alabama and other states competing for it.
"We do not believe the auto industry is a mature industry," Mr. Cho said in an interview earlier this month at the Detroit auto show.
James P. Womack, director of the Lean Enterprise Institute in Cambridge, Mass., likens Mr. Cho's potential impact to that of Alfred P. Sloan Jr., the General Motors chief executive from 1923 to 1946, whose memoir is a perennial management best seller.
Mr. Womack's 1990 book, "The Machine That Changed the World," praised Toyota's production methods. He says that if Mr. Cho's drive succeeeds, he will be "the logical successor to Sloan as the pioneer in state-of-the-art management of vast, globalized, mature companies."
A key portion of that drive is based on two risky strategies, which Mr. Cho discussed at the Detroit show.
One is the company's thrust into alternative-fuel vehicles, including cars powered by hydrogen fuel cells, as well as hybrid gasoline-electric models. In December, Toyota sold its first fuel-cell-powered vehicles in the United States and Japan, and it showed off a hydrogen-powered concept sports car in Detroit, the Fines, for Fuel Cell Innovative Emotion-Sport.
The company also unveiled a hybrid version of the Lexus RX 330 sport utility vehicle, which it said would be available within two years. By then, Toyota, which sold its 100,000th hybrid Prius compact in 2002, wants to sell 300,000 hybrids a year. Mr. Cho wants sales to reach a million by 2010.
All this is happening before Detroit's Big Three even put their first hybrids on sale, though Toyota faces a stiff challenge from Honda of Japan, which is selling hybrid Civics and Insights and also has a fuel-cell car.
But Mr. Cho, who was the manager of Toyota's first American assembly plant, in Georgetown, Ky., in 1988, is accustomed to risks. He is taking another chance with Toyota's new Scion division, aimed at buyers 25 and younger. Scions, which include the xA subcompact and the xB small van, go on sale in California this summer and will be sold nationwide in 2004. Scion is Toyota's effort to respond to its image among many young consumers as a gray-haired company.
Art Spinella, an industry analyst with CNW Marketing Research in Bandon, Ore., said the approach was vital. "There's a very distinct attitude among Generation Y that their cars are for older people," he said.
Mr. Cho, 64, said he was placing his trust in Toyota's marketing experts, who are convinced, based on sales in Japan, that the xA and xB will attract young Americans. It is not the first time he has relied on Americans to come through for him.
Soon after the Georgetown plant opened, northern Kentucky was paralyzed by a snowstorm that had begun during the day shift. Mr. Cho was not sure that enough workers would make it in for the night shift. So he asked for volunteers to work a double shift. Virtually the entire shift offered to stay on, and to Mr. Cho's surprise, nearly all the second shift showed up as well. Many of those workers drove in hours early because they were afraid the storm would make them late.
The episode showed the respect employees had for Mr. Cho, said Sam Heltman, then the plant's director of human resources. Known for his friendly manner, Mr. Cho would walk the plant floor each day, talking to its 1,100 workers and listening to their complaints.
"He acted as though he had nothing more important to do than to listen to this person and given them his undivided attention," said Mr. Heltman, who is now senior vice president for administration at Toyota Motor Manufacturing North America.
The conversations helped Mr. Cho understand the challenges of building vehicles in a foreign market, said Takahiro Fujimoto, an economics professor at Tokyo University, who has studied Toyota for decades. "He has a real shop-floor knowledge about manufacturing vehicles."
Along with getting to know Georgetown's workers, Mr. Cho became a faithful member of the Georgetown Rotary Club and later received an honorary degree from the University of Kentucky. He returned to Japan in 1994 and was named president of Toyota in 1999.
Mr. Cho and his wife, Emiko, have two grown sons. He is fond of golf and fishing. Mr. Cho and Professor Fujimoto, who are long-time friends, share an affinity for Kendo, an ancient Japanese martial art that dates back to samurai warriors. Both were members of the Kendo squad at Tokyo University, where Mr. Cho received a law degree in 1960.
In keeping with his employee-friendly approach, Mr. Cho said his goals were not meant to be ultimatums but should serve "as a banner under which everyone should walk." As for achieving global dominance, he said, "We will do our best."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fujio Cho, chief of Toyota, introduced a hydrogen-cell concept car at the auto show in Detroit this month. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); RECESSION (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (69%) AUTOMOBILES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: TOYOTA MOTOR CO 

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%)

MAYNARD, MICHELINE; CHO, FUJIO 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); EUROPE (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



826 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2686 words

HEADLINE: Taking On a Troubled Agency 

BYLINE:  By JEREMY PEARCE

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
IN the office of Gwendolyn L. Harris, word of the death of Faheem Williams, the 7-year-old boy found stuffed in a plastic container in a Newark basement, arrived as news that was shocking yet not unexpected.
Just months earlier, Ms. Harris, the commissioner of the state Department of Human Services -- which oversees the the troubled Division of Youth and Family Services -- heard a similar story.
An Irvington woman whose young child had been placed in protective custody gave birth to a second child at home, which she wrapped in a plastic bag and put in a closet. The infant's corpse was later discovered by a relative. 
"I remember sitting at my seat in the office, in conference with one of the deputy commissioners, when that case was walked in to me," Ms. Harris recalled one day last week. "Then I stopped the conference, read the case and yelled, 'What is this madness?' "
She paused and said: "That was a closed DYFS case. It was a situation known to the division. What could we have done there?"
In recent days, such questions have hovered like shadows for the commissioner, the first black woman to head the department and its 19,000 employees and a career social worker who spent most of the 1980's supervising caseworkers in Newark and Princeton.
Governor McGreevey's recent emotional pledge for reform has prompted Ms. Harris to review the caseloads carried by division workers -- sometimes more than a hundred at a time -- and to reconsider the division's mission entirely. The results are intended to be the most penetrating changes made in a decade, although child-welfare experts familiar with New Jersey say that inadequate financing and internal inertia remain as historical hurdles yet to be overcome.
In a preliminary report spurred by the Williams case and sent to the governor on Jan. 10, the commissioner called for the obvious -- more caseworkers and support staff, and the introduction of internal reviews -- in addition to measures more remote. Specifically, she urged the creation of a computer tracking system that has been delayed since the early 1990's, a system that would rate risks to children, rank the cases and follow them with a thoroughness now lacking.
"This is a very tragic situation that happened with Faheem, but Faheem is not the only child who has died since I have been commissioner," said Ms. Harris.
"And in each of those situations," she went on, "I'm looking at a whole confluence of the conditions of our families. The effect of substance abuse and poverty and homelessness and cruel people."
With some foreboding, she added, "I don't know the extent to which the community at large understands the emergency at hand."
For starters, despite the public outcry since Faheem Williams's death, the division has been without a full-fledged director for more than six months. Of the 17 children in New Jersey who died last year as a result of abuse or neglect, at least 10 were at some point on the radar screen at DYFS (pronounced DIE-fuss).
During the past five years, the totals were more ominous: 123 deaths, with more than half enrolled in the state child welfare system. The figures vary from year to year, but 32 of the children in the same period were part of cases considered closed by the division. As in the Williams death, caseworkers have in part blamed undue pressure to sign off on older cases. Complicating the situation is the fact that caseworkers are quitting the division at an annual rate of 14 percent.
"I'm still trying to assess that," said Ms. Harris. "I know that's something that staff has indicated to me. The fact that I've heard it a few times means that I need to definitely assess it, so I don't dismiss it out of hand. But I don't say that is what the situation is."
Yet Cecilia Zalkind, executive director of the Association for Children of New Jersey, a nonprofit advocacy group, said the premature closing of cases had become routine. "When you strip it away, there was an incredible failure here," Ms. Zalkind said. "The very basic thing you must do is to see the child."
"The Williams children were deteriorating over time," she said, "and it's a tragedy that nobody was present to see that."

Lingering Debate on Cases
Ms. Harris may be exceptionally prepared for enacting reforms that are so desperately needed. Before becoming a district office manager and assistant regional administrator with DYFS, she was the founding director of Newark Emergency Services for Families, a shelter and social services organization.
While she was at DYFS, she said, a debate about the ideal load of cases for each social worker was under way. Two decades later, it is a debate that still smolders, with workers at both extremes. The division recently reported that a handful of staff members were individually handling more than 110 cases, while dozens of others each carried only a single case. The current average is 33 cases of abuse or neglect assigned to one social worker.
"Frankly, I am a very strong proponent of looking at caseload composition, as opposed to caseload size," said the commissioner.
She explained her position this way: "I don't think we will ever find that magic number. We've got to become more sophisticated than just 'who's next on my rotation, you get the next case'. New Jersey is so far behind, quite frankly, in its technology and methodology. Maybe we can leapfrog over and move to the 21st century already, in terms of how were doing this."
But Hetty Rosenstein, president of Communications Workers of America Local 1037, which represents 2,000 of the division's 3,500 union employees, said that a limit on caseloads remained crucial to balancing the system. The Williams case set off a volley of finger-pointing over who was responsible -- or irresponsible. As tensions between the union and state officials subsided last week, Ms. Rosenstein said that any reform would have to address the number of assignments.
"It's simple," she said. "We support a caseload cap. We also think there should be more supervisors. And we're not anywhere near having these issues dealt with."
To that end, state Senator Diane B. Allen, a Republican of Burlington County, recently introduced a bill that would direct Ms. Harris to set standards for caseloads and limit social workers from taking more than 12 high-risk cases or 25 cases in total. The bill also calls for a $12 million appropriation to hire 400 more caseworkers -- an optimistic figure in a period of severe budget deficits.
"If you keep the caseloads lower, you will have DYFS workers staying longer," said Senator Allen. "Right now, the turnover among staff is huge." 
Even so, standards promulgated by the Child Welfare League of America -- upon which the New Jersey bill is based -- are tighter yet.
Linda Spears, the league's associate vice president for program operations in Washington, said that the number of cases each social worker has at any one time should run from 12 to 17, depending on the number that demand initial investigation. League guidelines also suggest assigning no more than five social workers to one supervisor.
Ms. Spears acknowledged that no state has maintained consistent compliance with the standards, although some -- including Illinois, Maryland, Connecticut and Tennessee -- have made notable progress. New Jersey's child welfare policies reflected a mixed record, she said.
"It's almost impossible for a state to be in compliance all the time," said Ms. Spears. "The workforce varies, money coming from the states varies, the flow of case intake varies. The problem is that standards are moving targets."
Ms. Harris explained the disparity of assignments for the 47,336 child cases handled by the division this month in this way: "In some cases, I'm trying to be as politically correct as possible. We have issues of caseworker performance or supervisor performance. We have a protocol that says when a caseload gets to a certain point, there is to be a corrective action plan."
She went on: "In some instances, you also help that worker in assessing if this is work that they can and should do. I'd be the first to say that where we have those caseloads way out there, something is wrong."
Gwendolyn Long Harris's path to state government in Trenton began long before her years in Newark.
Ms. Harris, 52, was born in Hartford, Conn., but grew up in California, the daughter of a civil servant and a school social worker. She received a bachelor's degree in psychology from the University of Connecticut before earning a master's degree from the University of Chicago's School of Social Services Administration, following the path of a favorite aunt -- a nurse and social worker -- who studied there.

Harris's Start in Newark
"She was a wonderful woman, and a professional woman, and a role model for me," said Ms. Harris. "I grew up in a home where there was a real ethic about helping people, about families and about community."
It was the election of Kenneth T. Gibson, the first black mayor of a major city, that drew her to Newark.
"There was a spirit of wanting to go where you could make a contribution," she said, "to where things were happening, where you were needed."
While in Newark, the commissioner said, an early job as a psychiatric social worker at Martlin Hospital nudged her toward management. Eight years with the division were followed by a period as program director for the New Community Corporation, a nonprofit economic development corporation. In 1990, Ms. Harris relocated to Trenton, where she worked in a series of roles -- as director of the city's Department of Health, business administrator and Mayor Douglas H. Palmer's chief of staff -- for more than a decade.
Then, last year, Governor McGreevey appointed her to lead the state Human Services Department -- a sprawling agency with an annual budget of $8.3 billion that administers programs for mental health, child support, disabilities and food stamps, among other initiatives, in addition to the child-welfare agency.
"I believe that I have been uniquely prepared for this particular position," she said.
Prepared, perhaps, though it was not what she set out to do.
"Becoming commissioner wasn't part of my career plan," said Ms. Harris, who did not know Mr. McGreevey until his first campaign for governor. "For whatever reason, God directed my path. I had been given certain opportunities that other people had not been given."
Two years ago, she married Jerome C. Harris, a father of two, a former assistant secretary of state in the Florio administration and later an assistant state treasurer. Today, the couple lives in Trenton.
While not bogged down with the details of her $137,615-a-year job, she is working toward a doctoral degree in urban planning and policy at Rutgers, and hopes to teach at the college level.
"I'm a black woman born in 1950," she explained. "Both of my parents were college graduates. For a woman and an African-American at that time, I could realistically be a nurse, a schoolteacher or a social worker. Let's understand that those were the times I grew up in."
In Ms. Harris's report to the governor, she declared "the ultimate solution" for solving the disarray within child-welfare cases would be the creation of a computer system to record and rank cases. Among the flow of acronyms involving DYFS, one of the most common is SACWIS, which stands for State Automated Child Welfare Information System.
The impulse for such a system -- a sort of electronic file for each abused child, open to a range of state agencies -- dates to at least 1993, and the comprehensive tracking of cases is now considered common in other states.
Kevin M. Ryan, the governor's deputy chief of operations, said development of the program had faltered over the years with shifting state budgets. But he added that Ms. Harris had emerged as a champion for the system months before the Williams case stirred public inquiries.
"She tenaciously defended the inclusion of SACWIS in the governor's budget," said Mr. Ryan, who until October was the commissioner's chief of staff. "It's a fact that Gwendolyn Harris has made more progress in getting that program going than any of her predecessors."
In all, about $14 million, including more than $9 million in federal funds, has been set aside to implement the new computer system, although its final cost is not yet clear. The commissioner's report concluded that New Jersey is one of only six states that has not adopted some form of the technology. State officials this month began seeking bids to embark on a new system.
William Waldman, both a former state commissioner of Human Services and a former director of the division during the Kean and Whitman administrations, said that he was disturbed by the intermittent interest in child welfare issues.
"Major reforms are unfortunately driven by tragedy," said Mr. Waldman. "Child deaths have become somewhat a fact of life. But it's also a dicey political business. You don't necessarily get a lot of votes if you fix this system."
Another veteran of the division, Thomas Blatner, a director during the Kean administration, believes that reform must extend beyond the hiring of more caseworkers and filing complete records.
"The technology is only as good as the degree to which people really use it," Mr. Blatner said . "It's a myth that it is a miracle cure."

Children's Bill of Rights
Mr. Blatner is trying to convince legislators to enact a children's bill of rights, and advocates the creation of a distinct state department to deal with children's issues, since he said that interest in child welfare cases too often loses out to other departmental priorities.
For her part, Ms. Harris says that reforms can be conducted through the Department of Human Services. "I am one who believes that structure -- although it influences how work gets done -- in and of itself doesn't make or fix a problem."
"The issue of creating another department of state could conceivably fix some things," she said, "but it could also conceivably create some problems."
Charles Venti, who retired as the division's director in June, agreed with Mr. Blatner about the need for a separate state department of child welfare, but cautioned that even if such a department were created, that the division would also have flaws.
"DYFS will never be perfect," said Mr. Venti, "and I'm not sure that you can ever put enough into child resources." 
"There's a bigger context to all of this," he said. "For instance, we know that substance abuse is an overpowering force in child abuse, and yet we don't require any drug testing in order to receive public assistance. These things are related."
Ms. Harris, the state's 14th human services commissioner, said that she observed social conditions decline within inner cities during her eight years with the division and since then, and that solutions to drug abuse and homelessness, as well as their destructive effect on families, would not be easily forthcoming.
Last week, state legislators introduced two bills that would require state caseworkers to visit children at home before closing cases and school superintendents to inform the division when a child had more than five consecutive unexcused absences. Also introduced was a third bill to have officials in criminal courts notify the division when a parent in an abuse case was sent to jail.
For this fiscal year, Governor McGreevey has set aside $3 million to hire another 77 supervisors and case workers, bringing the division's strength to nearly 3,700 employees. In addition, Mr. Ryan, temporarily posted to the division's District II office in Newark, brought in 222 cellphones and more cars to help caseworkers reach families. Officially, the division remains in a state of emergency until further notice.
"Everybody is very, very interested, at least initially," said Ms. Harris.
"For me, I hope that people are also taking a look at what's going on in our society, beyond DYFS and what DYFS did or didn't do," she said. "Let's start to look at the people who are charged with caring for our children."
 Then as an afterthought, she added, "I am very distressed at the condition of our condition."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gwendolyn L. Harris, human services commissioner, holds a staff meeting after the body of a 7-year-old boy was discovered in the basement of a house in Newark. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times and, right, Associated Press)(pg. 1); At a news conference on Jan. 10, Governor McGreevey and Kevin M. Ryan, the governor's deputy chief of operations, with Gwendolyn L. Harris. (Dith Pran/The New York Times); Ms. Harris, a career social worker, is the first black woman to head the state Department of Human Services and its 19,000 employees. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (76%); FAMILY SERVICES (76%); CHILDREN (76%); CHILD WELFARE (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); HOMELESSNESS (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



827 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
Wanted: Restaurant and Watering Hole

BYLINE:  By Terry Pristin

 BODY:
WHY would a neighborhood yearn for something as prosaic as an International House of Pancakes or an Applebee's Neighborhood Grill and Bar?
 Kenneth Adams, the president of the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce, calls it Ford Explorer Syndrome. On Saturdays, many people in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn pile their families into the car and head for Park Slope, Cobble Hill and other neighborhoods to shop or have a meal. 
 With its abundance of well-maintained turn-of-the-century brownstones, Bedford-Stuyvesant has been attracting more middle-class families in recent years. Nearly one-fourth of its households earn $50,000 or more, and yet they have few of the amenities that other city residents take for granted. There are few sit-down restaurants, for example, and no movie theaters. 
To be sure, Bedford-Stuyvesant (population 142,692) remains one of New York's poorest neighborhoods, with about one-third of its residents living below the poverty level, and an unemployment rate of almost 18 percent even during the economic boom, according to recent census figures. But over the past decade, the median household income for Brooklyn as a whole declined by 3 percent while that of Bedford-Stuyvesant rose by 7.5 percent. (The neighborhood is bounded by Flushing Avenue on the north, Broadway and Saratoga Avenue on the east, Atlantic Avenue on the south and Classon Avenue on the West.)
For several years now, community leaders have been trying to lure a chain restaurant to Restoration Plaza, a fortress-like office and retail complex on Fulton Street that is also home to a Pathmark supermarket. These days, they have a more positive story to tell people for whom the name Bedford-Stuyvesant is synonymous with blight and bad behavior. Reported crime is way down -- by 60 percent or more over the past decade, according to department statistics on the three precincts there. 
Because of an effort led by the Chamber of Commerce, Fulton Street, the main artery, is much cleaner than before. Much of the graffiti has been removed, and most of the street vendors have been forced to pack up their tables and move to a site at the corner of Albany Avenue and Fulton Street, away from the neighborhood's hub.
Even so, the neighborhood remains a tough sell for national chain stores, which tend to be conservative. A sprinkling of regional and national retailers like Jimmy Jazz, Foot Locker and Ashley Stewart have opened stores on Fulton, which has more than its share of dollar stores and nail salons. The neighborhood has a long wish list that includes a video rental store, an upscale shoe store and a furniture store.
Colvin W. Grannum, the president of the Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, a nonprofit community development group founded in 1967, said most large retailers are unwilling to be pioneers.
"What the chains tell us," Mr. Grannum said, "is that 'we are followers, not leaders. We do not blaze paths.' " 
In their marketing strategy, community leaders cite demographic data not for Bedford-Stuyvesant as a whole but for a retail district in which the northern boundary has been moved south from Flushing Avenue to Lafayette Avenue, eliminating some of the poorer blocks. And their income figures -- which suggested that the number of households earning more than $50,000 grew by 55 percent from 1989 to 2001 -- are not adjusted for inflation.
But even though the adjusted figures show a much more modest gain in that income level (2.3 percent for all of Bedford-Stuyvesant), there is no question that the neighborhood is making progress, said Andrew A. Beveridge, a professor of sociology at Queens College. "They are moving in a positive direction," he said. "I would say there's a turnaround."
Mr. Grannum said the new shopping centers that have opened in Harlem have made it easier to get retailers to listen to Bedford-Stuyvesant's pitch. But Harlem is not exactly Bedford-Stuyvesant's model. Mr. Grannum envisions a mixture of small and large retailers, as well as cultural attractions to draw visitors from other neighborhoods.
But getting a restaurant to open in Restoration Plaza remains a priority for him, not just because it would bring needed income to his organization, which owns the building. A community needs to have a gathering spot, Mr. Grannum said. 
"It makes a big difference when you go into a restaurant and see your neighbors," he said. "It gives you a psychological lift. The absence of these things can be a profound downer."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Colvin W. Grannum, the president of the Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, is seeking a chain restaurant for Restoration Plaza, an office and retail complex. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); SHOE STORES (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FURNITURE STORES (69%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (69%); CENSUS (69%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (66%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (64%); NAIL SALONS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: APPLEBEE'S INTERNATIONAL INC (93%); INTERNATIONAL HOUSE OF PANCAKES INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%)

PERSON: K S ADAMS JR (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



828 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Peron, Pinochet and Patience 

BYLINE:  By Jorge I. Dominguez and Steven Levitsky; Jorge I. Dominguez and Steven Levitsky are professors of government at Harvard.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
Venezuela is in its worst political crisis since the establishment of its constitutional democracy in 1958. At stake is not only Hugo Chavez's presidency, but the ability of any democratic leader to govern in the future. Public opinion polls show that most Venezuelans want Mr. Chavez out of office. They have good reasons. Since Mr. Chavez's election in 1998, his administration has mismanaged the economy, fomented violence and concentrated power, threatening Venezuela's core democratic institutions.
 In response, a coalition of opposition parties, unions and business leaders has held a crippling general strike for nearly two months that has emptied store shelves, paralyzed the oil industry and pushed the country to the brink of civil war. Opposition leaders have vowed to continue the strike until their demands for Mr. Chavez's immediate resignation and new elections are met. 
 Such a disruptive strategy is misguided. It has not only inflicted enormous damage on Venezuela's economy and democracy, it has weakened the opposition itself. Laying siege to the government plays into Mr. Chavez's own strategy of rallying his supporters by polarizing the country along class lines. Even if the strike succeeds in forcing Mr. Chavez to resign or in provoking a military coup, such a victory would likely be Pyrrhic. The opposition could lose a new election. It is highly fragmented, and none of its potential presidential candidates enjoys broad public support. If faced with multiple challengers, Mr. Chavez might win again. 
Were the opposition to succeed in a new election, it would still not be guaranteed the ability to govern. Mr. Chavez retains the intense support of an important minority of Venezuelans, concentrated among the poor. If he were forcibly removed, his supporters would not accept the legitimacy of a new government and would work to undermine it. Post-Chavez Venezuela would be as ungovernable as it is today.
Argentine history offers lessons about the consequences of trying to save democracy by going around the constitution. The 1955 coup against Juan Peron, a semi-autocratic populist much like Mr. Chavez, did not bring about a return to stable constitutional rule. Those who supported Peron denied the legitimacy of all successor governments and worked actively -- and at times violently -- to bring them down. Those against Peron fought back. Three more presidents fell victim to coups. More than 30 years passed before another elected president completed his mandate.
Fortunately, there is an alternative model: Chile. During the mid-1980's, after protests failed to topple the dictator Augusto Pinochet, Chilean democrats embarked on a different course. The opposition decided to abide by Chile's Constitution and wait for a plebiscite in 1988 to determine whether General Pinochet would step down. Opposition parties used the time to build a broad coalition and organized an ultimately victorious campaign. Because the plebiscite had been General Pinochet's idea and was run according to his rules, he stepped down. Chile became one of Latin America's most successful democracies.
The Venezuelan opposition can follow suit. Mr. Chavez's 1999 Constitution allows for a binding referendum to remove the president at midterm, or in August 2003. If Mr. Chavez were to be voted down, a new presidential election would be held within 30 days. 
Thus far, the opposition has refused to wait until August. It should reconsider. The opposition could use the next seven months to organize an effective campaign and agree upon a single candidate for future presidential elections. In playing by the rules, the opposition would also be able to maintain the domestic and international legitimacy that it forfeited with a failed coup in April 2002.
Unlike a forced resignation, a recall election would be constitutional and more peaceful. Mr. Chavez's electoral defeat would most likely demobilize, rather than antagonize, his supporters. While Mr. Chavez might try to cancel or steal the election, he would do so at enormous cost. The 2002 coup attempt gained Mr. Chavez widespread support among Latin American governments. A blatant move by Mr. Chavez to disregard his own Constitution and block a free vote would have the opposite effect. Most Latin American countries would turn against him and weaken his already fractured government, opening the way to impeachment.
As Argentina's postwar history makes clear, when politicians temporarily suspend democratic rules of the game during crises, they risk weakening democracy to the point of collapse. A constitutional solution is the best means of preserving Venezuelan democracy. It would also benefit Latin America. Recent years have brought tough economic times, which in turn have posed a threat to democracy in the region. The forced removal of presidents in Ecuador and Argentina suggests a possible trend in which mass protest serves as a somehow more acceptable form of coup d'etat. Mr. Chavez's forced removal would only reinforce this, making fragile governments all the more vulnerable. 
The Venezuelan opposition should be patient. As former President Jimmy Carter recently proposed, the opposition should lift the general strike and abandon current efforts to remove the president in exchange for an agreement with the Chavez government to choose the day for an internationally monitored referendum in August. If the opposition were to force Mr. Chavez's removal before that, it would risk ushering in a cycle of polarization and violence that could grip the country for years. Avoiding this and saving Venezuela's constitutional democracy is well worth waiting eight months. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); COUPS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CIVIL WAR (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (58%); ARMED FORCES (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); CHILE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



829 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: ADDED VALUE; 
A Moving Target: Cisco

BYLINE:  By TIM RACE 

 BODY:
IN business books, as in business, timing is everything.
 In the spring of 2001, Robert Slater, a business writer, was finishing his manuscript for a book on John T. Chambers and Cisco Systems, the Internet hardware maker Mr. Chambers runs. He had started the book, "The Eye of the Storm" (HarperBusiness, $26), a year earlier, around the time that Cisco's stock price -- peaking at $80.06 a share in late March 2000 -- gave it a market value of $531 billion and briefly made it the world's most valuable company. 
 Although Cisco has made Internet routers since its founding in 1984, Mr. Chambers, who became chief executive at age 45 in January 1995, was credited with the company's tremendous run in the Internet boom. Mr. Slater, in fact, credits him with almost supernatural powers of prescience.
"Armed with their early-warning system foretelling customer wants and needs," the book says, "Chambers and his colleagues picked up on the single most important market transition of the 1990's: the decision to fall in love with the Internet. Using that valuable piece of intelligence, Chambers set out a vision earlier than anyone else of the Internet as the crucial tool for American business."
Fortunately for Mr. Slater and his readers -- if not Cisco shareholders -- the story changed before his book went to press. In February 2001, Cisco missed analysts' earnings forecast for the time in 11 years. And by May 2001, when the company reported its next quarter's results, it was clear that the telecommunications recession had finally caught up to Cisco. In August 2001, with its shares trading below $20, Cisco would report a fiscal year loss of $1.01 billion.
In the revised book, Mr. Slater explains what went wrong: Cisco stayed too long with a hypergrowth strategy, fueled by acquisitions, and with a policy of attracting customers by financing their purchases itself.
Once Cisco's problems were impossible to ignore, Mr. Chambers moved quickly to address them, cutting annual costs by $1 billion and emphasizing profits over growth. Last November, it reported a quarterly profit of $618 million.
With its stock closing at $13.86 on Friday, Cisco is no longer a Wall Street phenomenon. But compared with rivals like Lucent and Nortel, which fell farther and have shown little resiliency, it may be the closest thing the network equipment sector has to a success story.
That may explain why Institutional Investor magazine recently put Mr. Chambers at the top of its list of America's Best C.E.O.'s -- an accolade that can only help to sell Mr. Slater's book.
Timing is everything. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); WRITERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (89%); LITERATURE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); WEATHER (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (54%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (97%)

ORGANIZATION: CISCO SYSTEMS INC 

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (97%) SIC3577 OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (92%) RACE, TIM; CHAMBERS, JOHN T; SLATER, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: EYE OF THE STORM, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



830 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1981 words

HEADLINE: Will He Star Again In a Buyout Revival? 

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
THOMAS O. HICKS is nothing if not an optimist. The baseball team he owns, the Texas Rangers, finished dead last in the American League West in each of the last three seasons -- despite the skills of Alex Rodriguez, who won a 10-year contract worth $252 million from Mr. Hicks, the most ever paid to a professional athlete. As Mr. Hicks said recently, "I'm feeling pretty good about the current season."
 So it is with his main job, running Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst, a private investment firm that specializes in leveraged buyouts. Mr. Hicks is struggling to restore his and the firm's reputation after losing about $1 billion for his investors from minority stakes he took in six telecommunications and 13 Internet companies at the peak of the 1990's stock market bubble. "We got sucked up in the vortex of the new economy," Mr. Hicks said in a recent interview. 
 That was hardly the firm's only misstep. Hicks, Muse's joint purchase, with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, of Regal Cinemas also ended disastrously. Regal filed for bankruptcy in September 2001, costing the firm and its investors an additional $500 million. And Hicks, Muse has risked $1 billion on media companies in Argentina, which has been in a recession for four years. 
Then there is the Viasystems Group, an electronics equipment maker Hicks, Muse controls that filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection last October.
Still, a chastened Mr. Hicks, who will turn 57 next month, says that he and his firm will restore its reputation now that he has refocused the firm on what it does best: buying companies at reasonable prices and expanding them to increase profits -- what he calls his "buy and build" strategy. The feeble economy is offering opportunities not seen in a decade, and many troubled companies are eager to discard parts of their businesses.
If only things were that simple.
All of the big names in leveraged buyouts -- from Kohlberg Kravis to Thomas H. Lee Partners -- are digging out from a pile of failed, or bankrupt, acquisitions. And all have had a hard time realizing gains from their better investments, what with the weak market making it nearly impossible for them to take the businesses public or sell them to another company.
But many of these firms, too, are on the prowl for deals. Kohlberg Kravis and the Texas Pacific Group are looking at Britain's Safeway, which is on the block. And Diageo, the British liquor company, last month agreed to sell Burger King to Texas Pacific, Bain Capital and Goldman Sachs Capital Partners.
MOST have plenty of money. Last summer, the Blackstone Group raised the largest buyout fund ever, $6.5 billion, beating Thomas H. Lee, which had raised $6.1 billion in 2001. All told, buyout firms now have more than $100 billion in cash, according to Morgan Stanley. Riding a resurgence in the junk bond market, which provides some leverage, buyout firms announced $10 billion of acquisitions in the fourth quarter, the highest level since the fall of 2000, according to Standard & Poor's. Last summer's auction of the Qwest directory business attracted as many as 10 buyout firms.
"Buyouts are back with a vengeance," said Alan Jones, who heads a group at Morgan Stanley catering to these firms. "There are suddenly lots of affordable things to buy."
That competition makes Hicks, Muse's task harder, though Mr. Hicks argues that he is mostly pursuing midsize acquisitions that other firms care little about. 
At the annual meeting with his investors last October, Mr. Hicks declared his firm to be "on track, on message and doing the kinds of deals that have delivered outstanding returns to our limited partners."
How? With chances slim to none that Mr. Hicks can pry profits out of his foray into Argentina, he promises that he will not make any more investments in Latin America until it stabilizes. He will no longer take less than a controlling interest in a company, as he did in telecommunications. 
And he will avoid technology and telecommunications companies altogether, despite potential bargains. (He remains optimistic about Viasystems, which will emerge from bankruptcy this week.) Instead, he intends to stick to three familiar industries: food, manufacturing and media, including radio, television and cable.
Set on this strategy, in fall 2001 Mr. Hicks told investors in his firm's newest fund that he hoped to deliver net profit close to the 30 percent he had achieved with earlier funds. That would be a sharp contrast with the prior fund, which is expected merely to break even, among the worst performances in the industry. 
That goal is a tall order for Mr. Hicks, a 6-foot-3 Dallas native; rival buyout firms are aiming for returns of 20 percent or less, according to consultants and competitors. In fact, Mr. Hicks recently told his investors that more modest returns were possible.
That is because times have decidedly changed. Banks are more cautious: they want buyout firms to contribute close to 40 percent of the purchase price in cash, compared with less than 10 percent in the late 1980's, the heyday of buyout firms. In one of Mr. Hicks's earliest deals, the acquisitions of Dr Pepper and Seven-Up in the 1980's, he and his backers put up just 7 percent. The return was more than 20 times their investment. 
The less leverage a buyout includes, of course, the lower the ultimate returns to the investors. 
"Returns are definitely down," said Lawrence Schloss, who manages more than $26 billion in buyout and related investments at Credit Suisse First Boston. "But a return of more than 20 percent isn't bad when the stock market is down three years in a row."
Some investors are wary. Many pension funds and other institutions passed on the chance to invest when Hicks, Muse set out in 2000 to raise its latest United States-focused buyout fund, the firm's fifth. Mr. Hicks and his partners were ultimately able to scrape together only $1.6 billion, a far cry from the $4.5 billion they had sought.
LAST July, a Dallas magazine called D went so far as to feature a doctored photo of Mr. Hicks on its cover, his pockets turned inside out. "Is Tom Hicks going broke?" it asked. 
It did not help that last September Mr. Hicks put his other sports franchise, the Dallas Stars hockey team, up for sale.
A spokesman for Mr. Hicks, Roy Winnick, calls the D article "pure drivel," and denies that Mr. Hicks is facing a cash squeeze. Forbes magazine's estimate last fall of his net worth, at $725 million, is "a lot closer to reality," he said. 
The hockey team offering, Mr. Hicks said, "was a lifestyle choice," adding that he preferred to focus his free time on the Rangers, which he bought from a group that included George W. Bush in 1998.
Mr. Hicks says he wants to restore his firm's reputation not because he needs the money, but because his name is on the door and he wants the firm to survive long after he personally has stopped doing deals.
He was so eager to earn the good will of his investors that in the fall of 2000 he promised investors a 20 percent return on some $200 million in Internet investments that he had made with borrowed money, in anticipation of raising the new fund. In leveraged-buyout circles, this is unheard of.
If the investments failed to meet that return, Mr. Hicks promised, he and his partners would make up the difference, using their share of the profits on past and future deals.
Now that many of those investments have fallen far short of the promised return, Mr. Hicks and his partners are on the hook for some $200 million.
"It was one of the craziest things ever done by an LBO firm," said one competitor who did not want to offend Mr. Hicks. 
The firm's investors, of course, appreciated the gesture.
"They are really committed to proving to the world that the fourth fund was an aberration," said William F. Quinn, president of the pension management arm of the AMR Corporation, parent of American Airlines, and a longtime investor with Hicks, Muse.
More than two years later, investors are waiting for Mr. Hicks to pay off most of the pledge. He and his partners have repaid $60 million, but Mr. Hicks said he expected this year to announce a means of repaying the rest.
Investors are now watching how Mr. Hicks invests the rest of the fund.
Mr. Hicks and his partners say they have returned to the firm's strategy of making an initial, sometimes small, acquisition in a target industry and then expanding it through a series of add-on deals.
One of Hicks, Muse's best-known buildups was in radio, where, starting with two stations, it created the second-largest collection of stations in the country, buying 441 stations in more than 30 acquisitions. That company, AMFM, merged with Clear Channel Communications in August 2000. Investors in Hicks, Muse's earlier funds have made a 42 percent annualized return on these radio investments, although the firm still holds a 6 percent stake in the combined company. 
A second buildup, International Home Foods, was sold to ConAgra three years ago, also for a return of around 40 percent.
In 2001, Hicks, Muse started a new buildup in the food industry, called Pinnacle Foods, begun with the purchase of the North American brands of Vlasic Foods for $350 million, including the well-known pickle brand as well as Swanson, the frozen-dinner maker. 
"Our best returns have been on acquisitions of $250 million to $1 billion," said John R. Muse, one of Mr. Hicks's partners, who runs the firm's $1.5 billion European buyout fund. (A third partner, Jack D. Furst, oversees most of the manufacturing investments.) 
But Mr. Muse said the firm would still tackle larger deals, often with a partner, if they were tempting enough.
In 2001, Hicks, Muse teamed up with the buyout firm Apax Partners to acquire Yell, the directory division of British Telecommunications. Hicks, Muse competed against Kohlberg Kravis and Texas Pacific for the deal, then the largest European buyout ever.
So far, Yell's performance has been good. In the quarter ended Sept. 30, Yell reported cash flow of $147 million, up 38 percent from the previous year, on sales of more than $420 million.
Still, the sluggish stock market is making it hard to show tangible results from Mr. Hicks's newfound focus. He had hoped to take Yell public last summer in London, for example, but with the appetite for stock offerings as weak there as in the United States, Hicks, Muse had to cancel its plans.
"Some of our biggest wins haven't shown up yet," Mr. Hicks said. Now, the firm is talking about selling Pinnacle, possibly as early as this spring, according to an executive briefed on the plans.
Mr. Hicks has some time: just half of the latest fund is invested, and he expects it will be at least another couple of years before he uses up that money and needs to raise a new fund.
Some pension fund managers and investment bankers are convinced that Mr. Hicks will do what he must to salvage his reputation. "Tom is an extremely driven guy," said one banker who has lent the firm money.
One indication of Mr. Hicks's determination was the quiet departure of two partners involved in some troubled investments. 
Michael Levitt, who ran Hicks, Muse's New York office and handled some of its telecommunications deals, resigned in August 2001 rather than relocate to Dallas. Mr. Levitt declined to comment.
CHARLES TATE, a partner who led many of its efforts in Latin America, retired last June at 57. Mr. Tate said there was "absolutely no connection" between his departure and the performance of the investments, adding that he had long planned to retire. 
"We all collectively take guilt for bad decisions, Mr. Hicks said. He added that his firm last year let go 15 percent of its staff over all.
But Mr. Hicks is adamant that he, and his firm, will be around for many years to come. He personally plans to stick around at least until age 65, he said, or another eight years.
"This firm," Mr. Hicks said, "is my legacy."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 2, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A credit last Sunday for a chart showing the level of business activity by leveraged-buyout firms, with an article about the private investment financier Thomas O. Hicks, misstated the name of a source of some data and misspelled part of it; the source was Thomson Venture Economics, not Thompson Financial.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thomas O. Hicks is trying to restore the reputation of his leveraged buyout firm, which, he says, "got sucked up in the vortex of the new economy." (Mark Graham for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Thomas O. Hicks, above left, who owns the Texas Rangers, with Alex Rodriguez, the shortstop, and Mr. Rodriguez's wife, Cynthia Scurtis. John R. Muse, far left, and Jack D. Furst are Mr. Hicks's partners. (Associated Press); (Mark Graham for The New York Times)(pg. 13) Chart: "Buyouts Are Back, but Not Returns"After years of slow activity, leveraged buyout firms, flush with cash, are starting to to do more deals. But many have to recoup from previous acquisitions that soured. Leveraged buyout loan volume Graph tracks the quarterly volume, measured in billions of dollars, from 2001 to 2002. Net funds raisedBy leveraged buyout firms Graph tracks net funds, measured in billions of dollars, from 1990 through Sept. 30, 2002. Annual performanceOf leveraged buyout funds Graph tracks performance from 1990 through June 30, 2002. (Sources: Standard & Poor's; Thompson Financial)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); NEW ECONOMY (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (71%); ELECTRONICS (69%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (69%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (68%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: HM CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); KKR & CO LP (82%); TPG CAPITAL LP (71%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (52%); THOMAS H LEE PARTNERS LP (52%); DIAGEO PLC (51%); GOLDMAN SACHS CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (50%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS RANGERS (91%) HICKS MUSE TATE & FURST INC 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); KKR (NYSE) (82%); BX (NYSE) (52%); DGE (PAR) (51%); DGE (LSE) (51%); DEO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (84%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (71%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (52%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (52%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (51%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (51%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (51%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (51%) SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE; 

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (88%) ATLAS, RIVA D; HICKS, THOMAS O 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



831 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: The 'Catholic Vote'; 
Testing the Church's Influence in Politics

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IN many ways, this should be a moment of peak political influence for the American Catholic Church.
 The abortion-related issues it has championed for so long are once again front and center in the new Republican Congress, along with new ethical conundrums, like cloning, posed by the biomedical revolution. The church retains an infrastructure in its parishes and schools that can still produce an impressive grass-roots lobbying campaign, as last week's "March for Life," protesting legalized abortion, demonstrated. Moreover, the Bush administration is solicitous of the church and its leaders, mindful of the size of the Catholic vote. 
 Yet the limits of church power in the secular realm -- on issues from abortion to immigration to Iraq -- are also apparent now. While the Catholic laity holds some of the most influential positions in American politics, and Catholic voters continue to be a much sought-after constituency, neither group behaves monolithically. 
Moreover, the influence of American bishops in the broader political debate stems largely from their moral authority; the days when they were considered brokers who could deliver the Catholic vote are long gone.
This moral authority has almost certainly been diminished by the church's handling of the sex abuse scandals, many Catholics and outside analysts say.
"Before the crisis," said R. Scott Appleby, a professor of Catholic and religious history at the University of Notre Dame, "the greatest asset of the U.S. Catholic Conference was the presumption of moral integrity and authority that was given to them by Catholics and non-Catholics alike. That's been squandered to some degree and eroded to some degree by the current crisis."
Even before the scandal, the church had limited sway over American Catholic politicians and voters. No longer the cohesive urban ethnic voting blocs of years past, they have become so assimilated and suburbanized that some analysts dismiss the whole idea of a "Catholic vote." The Vatican's recent proclamation that Catholics in elected office must promote church teachings on matters like abortion served to underline how many prominent American Catholic politicians disagree.
Citing that proclamation, an anti-abortion group ran newspaper ads last week denouncing Senator Edward M. Kennedy and 11 other Catholic senators who support abortion rights, and calling on the church hierarchy to punish them. Senator Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat, responded: "I take my religion very seriously and my faith very deeply, and I also take my oath of office very seriously as well. And I am pro-choice." 
He noted that his brother, President John F. Kennedy, outlined the distinction a Catholic politician draws between his faith and his civic duties. "I do not speak for my church on public matters -- and the church does not speak for me," Kennedy declared in the heat of his 1960 campaign, which made him the first Catholic president. 
In fact, the church's role in modern American politics has rarely been simple; to begin with, it fits neatly in neither party. The bishops' teaching on abortion, for example, puts the church in line with the Republicans, whose platform calls for a ban on the practice. 
But their teachings on "economic justice" and many social welfare issues, like a higher minimum wage, expanded access to health care and better benefits for immigrants, are often far more in line with the Democrats. Their reservations about the prospect of a pre-emptive war with Iraq exceed those voiced by many Democrats.
"We think we're the ones who are consistent," said Richard M. Doerflinger, an official with the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops. Catholic analysts note that the church is simply reflecting what Joseph Cardinal Bernadin described as a "consistent ethic of life" that calls it to oppose both abortion and the death penalty, straddling left and right. 
CATHOLIC liberals often complain that the church's emphasis on abortion tilts it toward the Republicans. "There is this enormous co-dependency between the Republican Party and the institutional church, its allies and affiliates," said Frances Kissling, president of Catholics for a Free Choice. 
Catholic conservatives, over the years, have occasionally bristled at the church's stands on foreign policy and social welfare; the bishops conference was sometimes described as "the Democratic Party at prayer." Depending on the issue, the church manages to form alliances on Capitol Hill across the continuum.
Officials with the bishops' conference say that they have no plans to pull back from political involvement in the wake of the sex-abuse scandal, which clearly took a toll. Peter D. Hart, the Democratic pollster, said surveys he conducted for NBC News/The Wall Street Journal showed that of all the scandals that have racked institutions in the past few years, "the one most poignant that the American public points to is the sex abuse scandal in the Catholic Church." 
The church's positive ratings in a survey in June, when the sex abuse scandal was dominating news, had declined significantly and were well below those of the two political parties.
But Mark E. Chopko, general counsel to the bishops' conference, said, "It's an unstated assumption here that we don't withdraw from our obligation to the great issues of the day, that we have an obligation to address these issues, whether it's convenient or not."
In the end, though, Catholic voters exercise the church's greatest political influence. 
It has become a truism that on issues like abortion, self-identified Catholics do not move in lock step with the hierarchy and in fact hold views similar to those of non-Catholics, just as many stalwarts of the anti-abortion movement are not Catholics but conservative evangelical Protestants. Catholic conservatives dispute those polls, saying they reflect the views only of nominal, not observant, Catholics.
But some analysts say that Catholic voters do show some differences.
David C. Leege, an emeritus professor of political science at Notre Dame and the principal author of "The Politics of Cultural Differences," said, "They are more sensitive on human life issues and social justice issues than the run-of-the-mill voter." Compassionate conservatism, "partial birth" abortion and "faith-based initiatives" are all effective Republican strategies in pursuing those Catholic voters, Mr. Leege said.
The administration has also cultivated the Catholic clergy to signal its respect for those voters. Church leaders gathered here at a mass Tuesday night, on the eve of the March for Life to protest Roe v. Wade, the Supreme Court decision recognizing a constitutional right to abortion. And a White House official was on hand to read a message from President Bush.
Whatever the subtleties and complications of Catholic political power, the administration is clearly intent on building allegiances with a group that split its vote in 2000 -- 49 percent to Al Gore, 47 percent for Mr. Bush.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marchers at the anti-abortion rally in Washington last week. (Associated Press)(pg. 3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); RELIGION (91%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ABORTION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SCANDALS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); BIOETHICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); LOBBYING (72%); SUBURBS (71%); SEX SCANDALS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); IMMIGRATION (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CATHOLIC CONFERENCE (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (54%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); TED KENNEDY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



832 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Hastert to Tackle Economy in Stages 

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE 

DATELINE: BATAVIA, Ill., Jan. 22 

 BODY:
As he prepares to shepherd President Bush's agenda through the House, Speaker J. Dennis Hastert says he plans to split the emerging economic plan into individual bills and consult his own experts about adjustments to the White House approach.
 Mr. Hastert, who is beginning his third term as speaker, says experience has convinced him that the public can get a better understanding of actions to aid the economy if the legislation is piecemeal rather than one large costly measure subject to partisan attack. 
 "If you just talk about tax cuts, it kind of goes over the top of the average American's head," Mr. Hastert said in an interview in his home office here a few days before the State of the Union address. 
He and his fellow Republicans in Congress, he said, have an "obligation to explain what we are doing and why we are doing it," a strategy that could also help them sell a plan that Democrats and some moderate Republicans have said favors the wealthy.
Mr. Hastert, a Bush loyalist, would not predict whether Mr. Bush's plan, which would eliminate income taxes on stock dividends, would survive intact, though he said few such proposals did.
He said the House leaders, who are scheduled to go on retreat to map their agenda, would be talking to selected experts about the best ways to "get the economy going again." He sounded more like a pragmatic politician than a purist.
"They came up with the tax breaks for dividends," he said of Mr. Bush's team. "There are other things that people talk about. I am going to support the president on what he wants to do, and I also want some inside information on how things are developing and what else might be out there to take a look at."
The majority leader, Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, a crucial ally of Mr. Hastert, has already suggested that House Republicans might expand the president's $674 billion 10-year plan, which would give them negotiating room when it comes time to reconcile Senate and House versions of any bill.
Mr. Hastert said: "Some people think it is too much and some people think it is not enough. That is part of the debate, and we will have that debate."
Elevated to speaker in the turmoil surrounding the 1998 elections, the resignation of Newt Gingrich and the impeachment of President Bill Clinton, Mr. Hastert is a low-key leader whose biggest moment in the public eye may come each year at State of the Union time, when he sits behind the president for the nationally televised address. But he is a celebrity in his district, which stretches from the western Chicago suburbs through the farmland and struggling small towns of northern Illinois to the Mississippi River.
Mr. Hastert concedes that many of the people he represents have qualms about a possible war with Iraq, and that he does, too.
"I am worried about Iraq," he said. "I am worried about the effect it has on the economy; I am worried about the effect it has on the airline industry." But he said he was certain that Iraq was training terrorists and that his experiences at the Pentagon and at the World Trade Center site just after the Sept. 11 attacks had steeled him to support steps to prevent a recurrence.
Mr. Hastert, who was active in developing Republican proposals on health care before he became speaker, said he was optimistic that Congress, controlled by Republicans, could enact prescription drug coverage under Medicare and help more than 40 million Americans without health insurance obtain coverage.
Democrats and a few Republicans have criticized Mr. Hastert and Mr. DeLay for tightening their grip on the House by changing the rules and by passing over senior members to reward junior allies with top committee posts.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, at his office in Batavia, Ill., said he wanted to split the economic plan into separate bills to help the public understand. (Peter Thompson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); CELEBRITIES (67%); DIVIDENDS (66%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%) HULSE, CARL; HASTERT, J DENNIS (SPEAKER); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (64%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



833 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Bush Tax Plan Gives Pelosi an Opening 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25 

 BODY:
The same day Representative Nancy Pelosi became House Democratic leader this month, she also received a blueprint from the White House for her new job: a tax cut plan perfectly tailored to her political needs.
 Until that moment, Ms. Pelosi's task had appeared impossibly bleak. The Democrats had just lost six seats in the House and control of the Senate. A popular Republican was in the White House. And the House Republican leadership, flexing its increased power, imposed rules limiting the Democrats' already minuscule role in influencing legislation. 
 "For the first time that I've been here, we have absolutely very little leverage," she said, sitting in an office that for seven years had been occupied by Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri.
But then President Bush released his economic plan, giving Ms. Pelosi the raw material she needed to begin shaping her tenure as leader of the opposition. The central element of the Bush plan was eliminating the tax on stock dividends, which would benefit relatively few lower- and middle-income taxpayers.
Suddenly, she had a rallying cry to summon her fractious, exiled party, and what she considered a strong message for voters. Musing about her role in an interview this week, she said that presenting an alternative vision of the government's priorities would be her chief task.
"Institutionally, the only leverage we have is the voice of the American people," she said. "That's why our challenge is so much greater now to get the word out as to what the differences are between the parties."
Ms. Pelosi did not say so, but she knows she will have very little opportunity to influence legislation. House Republicans have a tightly knit majority and rarely need to trade for Democratic votes. Most of the opposition to the administration's plans will come from Democrats in the Senate, where the minority party has far more power than in the House.
But Ms. Pelosi, 62, intends to take advantage of the persuasive powers of her office, which are enhanced by her presence as the first woman in a top Congressional leadership position. She and other House leaders quickly issued an economic plan that seemed the opposite of the president's, favoring tax rebates directed toward the lower and middle class. 
Democrats never miss an opportunity to note new reports of job losses, and she has blasted Mr. Bush's stand on affirmative action and removal of union protection for federal workers.
"The Republicans are tightening the vise on debate in the Congress of the United States, so we may have to create our own environment in which to debate these issues," she said. "With or without the Republican rules changes, the Democrats have to take their message to the American people. It has to be clear to them what is at stake in Washington, D.C."
Ms. Pelosi's liberal record still provokes skepticism among the more conservative members of her party, and she ruffled a few feathers in the Congressional Black Caucus by not appointing a caucus member to lead the Democratic Congressional campaign for 2004. But in general, she has significant support among her largely liberal conference and plans to make the most out of the party's reduced status.
"The advantage of this unfortunate situation is, the Republicans have no place to place blame," she said. "It's all on them. Anything they do is their responsibility. And if we are not as a party able to convey the difference to the American people, then it's not the Republicans' fault, it's our fault."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader, is rallying other Democrats against President Bush's economic plan. (Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); DIVIDENDS (52%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION 

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%) FIRESTONE, DAVID; PELOSI, NANCY (REP); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



834 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: WHITE HOUSE MEMO; 
Amid Doubts on Iraq and the Economy, Bush Seeks to Regain Center Stage

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25 

 BODY:
Standing before a teleprompter and a small group of aides in the White House theater on Friday, President Bush began rehearsing the words that represent his best shot at uniting the country behind him as he confronts war and a stubbornly weak economy.
 White House officials said Mr. Bush's State of the Union address on Tuesday night should last less than an hour. It may be a little longer than last year's 50 minutes, they said, but it will still be relatively short, given the magnitude of the issues and the challenge he faces in rallying support at home and abroad and strengthening his own political position. 
 "This is basically his moment to jump back into center stage and say, 'I'm the 900-pound gorilla, and I'm a man with a plan,' " said Dick Armey, the former House Republican leader, who noted that the Democratic presidential prospects had grabbed considerable public attention over the last several weeks. "He'll say, 'I know what needs to be done and I'm going to get it done.' " 
The coming week may be a turning point in determining whether and when the United States will lead an invasion of Iraq, and will be another in a series that will define Mr. Bush for history.
On Monday, the United Nations weapons inspectors are to submit their report on Iraq to the Security Council. Mr. Bush's speech on Tuesday night will be followed on Wednesday by a traditional trip -- this year to the electorally critical battleground of Michigan -- to sell his domestic agenda. As Mr. Bush flies back and forth across the country on Wednesday, the Security Council will meet. And on Friday, he will play host to a meeting at Camp David with his staunchest international ally in confronting Iraq, Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain.
Yet no moment will be more vital for Mr. Bush than when he stands in the House chamber at 9 p.m. on Tuesday with a chance to sell an unfiltered version of himself to the country and the world.
Rather than focus on just guns or just butter, White House officials said, the speech will touch on three main themes: the threats from terrorism and Iraq; Mr. Bush's belief that his $670 billion tax cut proposal will help accomplish his goal of creating more jobs; and his plan to put the Medicare system on a sounder financial footing while adding coverage for prescription drugs.
But the subtext, Republicans said, will be re-establishing Mr. Bush as a leader after several months in which his standing has been reduced. The furor over Senator Trent Lott, the difficulty the administration has had in explaining why Iraq is an immediate threat while North Korea is not, the reluctance of moderate Republicans in the Senate to back his tax plan -- all, they said, have eaten away at the strength Mr. Bush exhibited in leading his party to victory in the Congressional elections. 
"What he needs to do -- and what he clearly will do with the speech -- is re-establish the clarity of his leadership," said one prominent Republican with close ties to the White House. "He needs to regain the momentum that stalled out after the election."
Polls show that a substantial portion of the electorate is unconvinced of the need for an immediate war -- as are some of the nation's putative allies in a military campaign against Saddam Hussein. A grass-roots antiwar movement is beginning to make itself heard. Some Democrats are starting to warn assertively against a "rush to war," as Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts put it.
At the same time, Mr. Bush's once sky-high approval ratings are receding to more normal levels, in part because of growing unease among voters about his handling of the economy, an issue that this White House in particular knows can sink even a wartime presidency. 
Mr. Bush's aides and some of the White House's top outside advisers said the president was well aware of the tangle of difficulties he faces.
"There are great challenges that we face in this country," said Dan Bartlett, the White House communications director. "He will speak to the fact that our country is equal to the task, that we are at a unique moment in our history to address some of the long, difficult challenges we face both at home and abroad."
People who have been briefed on the speech said it would be shaped by Mr. Bush's emphasis on the moral basis for a foreign policy intended to rid the world of threats and lay the groundwork for freedom. "Last year he talked about the axis of evil," said Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief political adviser, referring to Iran, Iraq and North Korea. "This is a chance for him to show what the policy has been over the last year and what the policy will be in the coming months toward those three countries."
White House officials also said Mr. Bush would seek to re-emphasize the "compassionate" side of his agenda by discussing the need to provide prescription drug coverage to the poorest of the elderly while touching on issues like the need for a greater international effort to combat AIDS. 
Mostly, Mr. Bush's advisers said, the speech would try to bring to life his philosophy that the presidency is about big, bold initiatives.
Democratic strategists said Mr. Bush had to overcome two specific hurdles: convincing the American people that there is a compelling case, backed by hard evidence, for abandoning diplomacy and dealing with Iraq militarily; and addressing the perception among some voters that his administration is using the economy's weakness as justification to provide more tax cuts to its wealthy benefactors.
More broadly, they said, Mr. Bush will have to counter the impression -- one that Democrats are not averse to promoting -- that the country has gotten off track in foreign and domestic policy.
"I don't know what he will say," Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, told an audience in Cleveland on Friday. "But as I travel around the nation and listen to people with all kinds of backgrounds and beliefs, I hear one thing: concern. The state of our union today is anxious."
Administration officials have been playing down expectations that Mr. Bush will use the State of the Union address to unveil the "smoking gun" evidence against Iraq that a substantial element of public opinion seems to be demanding as justification for military action. 
But without something concrete on the table Tuesday night to prove his case that American lives need to be put at risk before the inspections effort comes to a more conclusive end, Democrats said, Mr. Bush risks going to war with the nation split -- and allies bitter.
"What I see is a real erosion of support, because people think he's going to attack without providing full information," said Representative Robert T. Matsui, Democrat of California. "He has to give us more than we know now. I happen to believe there are probably weapons of mass destruction there, but thus far the case hasn't been made, and you can't attack on the basis of presumption."
One touch that has become routine at the State of the Union is for the president to invite guests to sit in his box in the House chamber. White House officials would not say who will get the seats of honor. 
But there is no question that Mr. Bush will face a tougher audience than he did last year. Among those present in the visitors' gallery will be firefighters -- including, according to The Daily News, Bob Beckwith, the retired firefighter who stood with Mr. Bush in the rubble of the World Trade Center -- who are pressing the administration for more money to monitor the health of people who worked at ground zero.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush met with speechwriters in the Oval Office last week to discuss his State of the Union address, which he is to deliver Tuesday night. (White House Photo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); THEATER (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (65%); TAX LAW (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (62%); TAX RELIEF (60%); MEDICARE (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); TERRORISM (50%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%); JOB CREATION (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

INDUSTRY:  SIC2844 TOILET PREPARATIONS; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); TRENT LOTT (58%); TONY BLAIR (50%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



835 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-11

Concerns From Iraqis As Powell Warns Allies
Saddam Hussein's top science adviser says he fears an attack may be inevitable, regardless of what inspectors conclude about the searches for weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. More Iraqi scientists refused to be interviewed, and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell warned reluctant allies not to shrink from any strike just because "the going is getting tough." 1

More than a dozen exiled Iraqi opposition leaders have quietly entered Iran, at the invitation of a senior Iraqi opposition cleric, to prepare their entry into northern Iraq. The invitation is a sign of Iran's increasing involvement in planning for its neighbor's future. 14

Peace in Ivory Coast
President Laurent Gbagbo of Ivory Coast formally accepted a peace plan in Paris to end his country's four-month-old civil war and named Seydou Diarra, a former prime minister, as the new prime minister to lead a reconciliation government. The plan also offers amnesty for rebel fighters. 3

Israeli Forces Attack Gaza
Two days before Israel's elections, at least a dozen Palestinians were killed and 40 wounded as Israeli forces, backed by tanks and helicopters, struck deeper into Gaza City than at any other time in the past two years of fighting. 6

Strained Ties With South Korea
The talk in Seoul in recent weeks has been of emerging from the shadow of the United States and of refocusing foreign relations within its own region. There have also been strong hints of interest in reducing the American military presence. 15

NATIONAL 16-21

Military Considers Limits On Role of the Reserves
Pentagon leaders are rethinking the way America goes to war, questioning whether relying on the mass call-up of Reservists hinders urgent military operations. 1

Privacy Debated in Rape Case
A rape crisis center was held in contempt of court for refusing to turn over the counseling records of a 16-year-old girl to the lawyers for the man she says raped her. 16

House Republican's Plan
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert says he plans to split President Bush's economic plan into individual bills because he believes that the public can get a better understanding of the plan if the legislation is piecemeal rather than one large costly measure subject to partisan attack. 21

Scrutiny for Cancer Specialists
Cancer specialists are pocketing hundreds of millions of dollars each year by selling drugs directly to their patients. Almost no other doctors follow the practice, which creates a potential conflict of interest because the specialists must advise patients on whether to undergo or continue chemotherapy. 1

Trial in a 1966 Killing
The United States plans to bring a former Klansman, Ernest Avants, to trial in one last attempt at retribution in the death of a black laborer. 1

Fears for Roaming Bison
The bison have made a recovery at Yellowstone National Park after more than a century of slaughter that nearly drove them to extinction. But the recovery may have gone too far. The thriving herd is already 1,000 over what the park can bear. 16

NEW YORK/REGION 25-29

A Collection of Cases Reveals That the Old Mafia Persists
Federal prosecutors in Brooklyn have filed a collection of cases over the last year that show that the five Mafia families in New York remain a potent force. Two decades after the racketeering cases of the 1980's, the mob continues to impose a tax of sorts on the region with its grip on legitimate businesses ranging from neighborhood coin laundries to the unions and companies on the waterfront. 27

Investigation of Rap Boss
Investigators are examining the finances of Irving Lorenzo, also known as Irv Gotti, chief executive of the Murder Inc. record label. The inquiry is looking into whether drug money was used to finance the label. Mr. Gotti says the investigation is nonsense. 25

Neediest Cases 28

OBITUARIES 22-23

Alfred Kantor
The Nazi concentration camp detainee who painted the workaday life in the camps, he was 79. 22

Chess 30
Weather 31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); SCIENCE POLICY (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); ARMED FORCES (86%); CANCER (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); CIVIL WAR (73%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); LAWYERS (69%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (68%); AMNESTY (67%); LEGISLATION (67%); ONCOLOGY (64%); CANCER DRUGS (64%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (60%); HELICOPTERS (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); COTE D'IVOIRE (94%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



836 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: Love in Black and White 

BYLINE:  By Nina Bernstein; Nina Bernstein is the author of "The Lost Children of Wilder: The Epic Struggle to Change Foster Care."

 BODY:
 INTERRACIAL INTIMACIES
Sex, Marriage, Identity, and Adoption.
By Randall Kennedy.
676 pp. New York:
Pantheon Books. $30.
 JUST when Trent Lott has reheated old debates about the racial politics of America's past, Randall Kennedy arrives with a new book to stir the pot. His goal, he writes, is to help move interracial intimacy to the center of the national conversation about race, so that it will be recognized "as a necessary focus of inquiry for anyone seriously interested in understanding and improving American society."
That earnest aim may be less important in the end than the sheer profusion of human paradox and legal contradiction that Kennedy serves up in his sprawling book, from an early footnote asserting that Strom Thurmond, the ardent segregationist, fathered a child with his parents' black maid, to the forgotten fact that until 1910 a Virginian could be up to 24 percent black and still be white by law.
The history of intimacy across the color line begins early in America -- even earlier, it is safe to say, than the history of the laws that tried to stop it. Southern colonies were already outlawing interracial marriage in the 1690's. Wyoming was the last state to prohibit it, in 1913, joining 41 others -- every state where the black population reached 5 percent. Though some had repealed their anti-miscegenation laws before the Civil War, 16 still had them on the books by the time the United States Supreme Court finally declared them unconstitutional in 1967.
Nothing is off limits to Kennedy, an African-American professor of law at Harvard whose last book was the provocative "Nigger: The Strange Career of a Troublesome Word." Navigating the sexual politics of race, including currents of black hostility to intermarriage, he pursues his subject with whatever comes to hand, from old bawdy jokes to the personals columns of magazines. He recalls the awkward silence that fell in his law school classroom when he asked a student opposed to all forms of racial discrimination whether he would condemn a friend who sought romance in an ad specifying race. "The present study results from my efforts to understand, overcome and transform that silence," Kennedy writes. 
Doubling and tripling back through time thematically, he manages to cover centuries of racial tragedy and sexual coercion while remaining buoyantly optimistic. Through old wills and burial arrangements, he finds evidence of interracial love blooming in the stony ground of slavery. In stories of racial passing, he sees the triumph of self-determination more than the burden of secret shame. And he showcases a six-fold increase in black-white married couples between 1960 and 2000 -- before conceding that what the statistics actually show is the persistent rarity of such unions.
More than 30 years after the aptly named landmark case Loving v. Virginia invalidated legal barriers to interracial marriage, weddings in black and white represent only 0.6 percent of all American marriages, or 300,000 out of 55.3 million. (The figures are for 1998.) Kennedy cites research showing that over 93 percent of whites and blacks marry within their own groups, compared with about 70 percent of Asians and Hispanics. 
Others have viewed these facts more somberly than Kennedy. In the astute and analytical "Interracial Intimacy: The Regulation of Race and Romance," Rachel F. Moran, a professor of law at the University of California, Berkeley, found lopsided intermarriage rates "strong evidence that black Americans remain a deeply racialized people in the realm of sex and marriage." From the same figures, the journalist Michael Lind has argued that rather than ushering in a race-blind society, shifting patterns of racial intermarriage suggest that the coming years "may see the replacement of the historic white-black dichotomy in America with a troubling new division, one between beige and black." 
But Kennedy, an avowed "liberal individualist who yearns for a society in which race has become obsolete as a significant social marker," is more disposed to celebrate the direction of change -- and urge it on -- than to seek reasons for its slow or uneven pace. "Against the tragic backdrop of American history, the flowering of multiracial intimacy is a profoundly moving and encouraging development," he writes.
After all, if Virginia had to be forced to drop its ban on interracial marriage, it was also the state where, in 1834, Ralph Quarles, a prosperous white plantation owner and hero of the American Revolution, was buried side by side with his slave Lucy Langston, whom he had emancipated along with their four children. If colonial Maryland decreed that any white woman who married a slave would become a slave herself, that law failed to deter the 1681 wedding of Eleanor Butler, an indentured servant who told Lord Baltimore that she would rather marry "Negro Charles" than Lord Baltimore himself. And if hair texture alone could condemn a foundling with ambiguous racial heritage to slavery, the accidents of physiognomy also allowed some extraordinary escapes: in 1848, with her black husband posing as a servant, Ellen Craft made the journey from bondage to freedom disguised as a white man.
"A well-ordered multiracial society ought to allow its members free entry into and exit from racial categories," Kennedy contends, and his exploration of racial passing makes for compulsive reading. In one striking example, he details the stellar careers of the fair-skinned children born to Michael Morris Healy, an Irish-born Georgia planter, and Eliza Clark, one of his slaves. Sent north to be educated, one became bishop of Portland, Me.; another rector of the Roman Catholic cathedral in Boston; a third, after study in Europe, became the president of Georgetown University, and a fourth commanded an American ship in Alaskan waters.
Still, their upward mobility was financed by the bondage of the slaves they left behind. Indeed, when a slave woman named Margaret sued for her freedom from the Healy estate in 1856, its agents successfully contested her claim in court, and promptly sold her and three of her children to different bidders. 
Kennedy does not make much of Margaret and her children. They appear in a tantalizing footnote, one of the many that help turn this book into such a robust succotash of history, law and popular culture. But in a sense their absence haunts Kennedy's deeply problematic later chapters, on foster care and interracial adoption. 
There, abandoning his evenhandedness, Kennedy presents a one-dimensional account of the problem posed by half a million children in foster care, many of them black. Repeatedly -- and misleadingly -- he calls them "parentless children." And he advocates their rapid, race-blind redistribution to adoptive homes that would be predominantly white, arguing that this would benefit both the children and American race relations.
Kennedy seems untroubled that these children's own parents are overwhelmingly poor and politically powerless, and that the new ones he seeks for them would be more affluent. Absent is any mention of recent cases in which courts found children had been wrongly removed to foster care because their mothers were battered, homeless or ineligible for public assistance. Nowhere is it more apparent that Kennedy's vision of a race-blind society has a blind spot for economic inequality. 
Kennedy relies on the work of his Harvard colleague Elizabeth Bartholet, who dismisses the legal system's preference for keeping children with their biological families as "blood bias." But he fails to grapple with the argument made, for example, by Martin Guggenheim in a piece about Bartholet in the Harvard Law Review. 
"A child-friendly child welfare policy certainly will regard the forcible removal of children from their families, and particularly the permanent banishment of birth relatives from their lives, as a necessary failure, rather than an outcome worthy of celebration," Guggenheim writes. "The American commitment to constitutional protection against government intrusion into the intimacy of the family . . . is born out of hard-fought experience. Many commentators in the past generation, including Malcolm X, have compared the ease with which state officials in the child welfare system separate children from their parents, either temporarily or permanently, to slavery." 
At the heart of Kennedy's brave new book is that chilling contradiction. He celebrates the way desire and family intimacy have defied and evaded state power imposed in the name of social good. Yet in the end he embraces the coercive power of the state to sever family ties permanently and configure new ones in patterns that better fit his own ideal of a better society.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Danijel Zezelj) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); LAWYERS (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%)

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



837 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 7965 words

HEADLINE: THE RADICAL PRESIDENCY OF GEORGE W. BUSH; 
Reagan's Son

BYLINE:  By Bill Keller; Bill Keller is a Times columnist and a senior writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
In December, George W. Bush had one of those turbulent spells that can cause a president nightmares about tumbling over the falls in a barrel. First he purged his economic team, the kind of housecleaning that tends to be taken as an admission of failed policies. He ordered a North Korean freighter arrested at sea, on the way to Yemen with a suspicious cargo of missiles, then sheepishly let it go on its way -- an amateurish misstep in his war on terror. The man he proudly put forth to head an investigation of America's vulnerability to terrorists abruptly declined the job because it would interfere with his consulting business. The party's leader in the newly recaptured Senate blundered into a career-ending display of insensitivity that peeled open the party's history of race-baiting.
 And the impact of these seeming embarrassments on President George W. Bush was? Scarcely a nick. No outbreak of articles postulating a White House in disarray. No mutters of discord in his ranks. On the contrary, he (or at least his political judo master, Karl Rove) was hailed for his genius in helping maneuver a presidential favorite into the Senate leadership. Bush's approval ratings held firm and high. Nothing stuck. Any more than a year of corporate scandals, some involving White House friends, had stuck. Any more than the recurring reminders of Al Qaeda's unimpeded reach -- in Bali, in Kenya -- had stuck. 
 Bush's seeming invincibility to bad news may be exasperating to Democrats, but it was no surprise to Michael Deaver, the shrewd public relations man who played Karl Rove to an earlier president, Ronald Reagan. When Deaver was handling spin for Reagan, one frustrated Democrat described the scandal-proof chief executive as the Teflon President. This time around, Deaver watched the White House twirl and sidestep through the serial crises of December with deep professional admiration. To Deaver there was nothing mysterious about it, no Teflon. It was just the relentless discipline of a president who consistently defies the expectations of people who think they are smarter than he is.
Like a lot of Republicans who have watched both Reagan and Bush at close hand, Deaver sees uncanny similarities between them. The presidents are alike in their outlooks and career paths, in their agendas of tax-cutting and confrontational deployment of American power, in the ideological mix of their advisers. (Whatever you read about the president's inheritance from his father and Gerald Ford, the Reagan DNA is dominant in the staffing, training and planning of the Bush administration.) More than that, there are important similarities of character and temperament. And both are simple men who have made a political virtue of being -- in Bush's word -- "misunderestimated" by the political elite.
That Bush is Reaganesque is a conceit that some conservatives have wishfully, tentatively embraced since he emerged as a candidate, and one that Bush himself has encouraged. The party faithful have been pining for a new Reagan since Reagan, and for Bush the analogy has the added virtue of providing an alternative political lineage; he's not Daddy's Boy, he's Reagan Jr. The comparison has only gained currency since Bush entered the White House. Some Republicans speak of the current era, with the culmination of Reagan's ballistic missile defense and the continuing assault on marginal tax rates and, especially, the standing tall against global evil as the recommencing of the Reagan "revolution." 
"I think he's the most Reagan-like politician we have seen, certainly in the White House," Deaver said. "I mean, his father was supposed to be the third term of the Reagan presidency -- but then he wasn't. This guy is."
Reagan's devout do not all buy this analogy. Some wonder about the depth of Bush's commitment to their causes. Others fear the comparison might diminish their hero, now living out his days in an Alzheimer's oblivion. Peggy Noonan, Reagan's gifted speechwriter and a torchbearer for his memory, has portrayed Bush in one of her books as eager to be likened to Reagan, but she insists that the two men are incomparable. Bush, she says, represents "the triumph of the average American man." He is, she told me, "like a successful local businessman in the boring local business who becomes a school board president." (She meant that in a good way.) Reagan, on the other hand, was "hardly your basic man on the street."
Many students of the presidency would argue that a basic-man-on-the-street quality -- a plain-spoken, unassuming genuineness -- is central to the appeal of both men, but Noonan's wariness is understandable. Let's concede that this kind of comparison can be reductionist. At its silliest, it can lapse into a parlor game of the Lincoln-had-a-secretary-named-Kennedy variety. Times change. Presidents reflect their times.
But midway into Bush's first term, measuring the emerging president against Reagan is an instructive way of looking at Bush's qualities and of explaining his popularity. It is even, with a larger margin of error, a basis for hazarding some guesses about the course he will follow, particularly now that his hand is strengthened by a Congress of his own party, by the unlikelihood of internal opposition in 2004 and for that matter by the lack of coherent opposition from the Democrats.
I began this exercise inclined to think of Bush as Reagan Lite -- that is, a president with shallower, unschooled instincts in place of the older man's studied, lifelong convictions, and without the mastery of language that served Reagan so well. Perhaps, I'd have said, he is a bit of a Reagan poseur -- the White House being such a studio of contrivance and calculation. I ended my research more inclined to think that Bush is in a sense the fruition of Reagan, and that -- far from being the lightweight opportunist of liberal caricature or the centrist he sometimes played during his own election campaign -- he stands a good chance of advancing a radical agenda that Reagan himself could only carry so far. Bush is not, as Reagan was, an original, but he has adapted Reagan's ideas to new times, and found some new language in which to market them. We seem not only to be witnessing the third term of the Reagan presidency; at this rate we may well see the fourth.
They are westerners (Midland, Tex., is truly the West, not the South), with a fondness for the region's open spaces and don't-fence-me-in rhetoric. Karl Rove contends that this is one reason that Reagan and Bush have been underrated by the media elite, whose prejudices are still manufactured mainly in the East. As president, Reagan was happiest clearing brush on his mountaintop ranch in California, and Bush loves chain-sawing cedar on his expanse of Texas prairie. Bush is a latecomer to this lifestyle, having acquired his ranch while a presidential candidate, and he is more self-conscious about it. (Reagan disappeared to his ranch and called it vacation; Bush calls his the Western White House and makes it a showcase of his authenticity.) Like Reagan, Bush takes great pains to run his ranch on ecologically sound principles, even as he dismantles environmental regulation. In the West, that is not considered hypocrisy but virtuous self-interest.
Defying the advice of the experts, they launched seemingly hopeless campaigns against popular incumbent governors and astonished their own party by winning. Each went on to win a second term by large margins. Reagan's executive experience was more meaningful. (California has a strong-governor system, while in Texas the governor defers to rambunctious, independently appointed agency heads.) Both managed to work with Democratic legislatures, which often entailed ruthlessness in California but in Texas required mainly charm.
They are the least introspective of presidents, but unashamedly spiritual, professing a personal faith that goes well beyond churchgoing. Bush bonded with Vladimir Putin over the Russian's story of a lost crucifix and opens cabinet meetings with a prayer. Reagan would sometimes astonish visitors by talking about Armageddon in a way that did not seem to be merely allegorical. Both attracted evangelical voters with their born-again vernacular. More than other presidents of recent times, they imbued their civil rhetoric with evangelical themes and suggested that America has a divine assignment in the world to spread what Reagan called "the sacred fire of human liberty."
Bush, like Reagan, is a man of self-discipline, punctual, diet-conscious, religious about his gym time and a good night's sleep, devoted to simple, mind-clearing outdoor exertion, impatient when meetings dawdle. Perhaps Bush, a reformed binge drinker, and Reagan, the son of an alcoholic, each learned to view rigorous routine as a safeguard against chaos.
Reagan and Bush are known as devoted homebodies. Laura Bush is not the assertive, hyperprotective West Wing enforcer Nancy Reagan was, although Karen Hughes played something close to that role for Bush. Bush is more gregarious than Reagan, but they are loners, in the sense that they are perfectly at ease without company. Both men are often described as comfortable in their own skins.
Ideologically they are to the right of the popular median strip. Reagan's principles were developed over decades and fortified by a selective but extensive reading of history. Bush's seem more instinctive. This makes him less predictable. Where Reagan's creed was a catechism of ideas reinforced by anecdotes, Bush's is a more earthbound compound of experience and politics. His relevant schooling includes a dozen years studying the campaigns and presidencies of Reagan and his father, and a largely unsuccessful but self-defining career in oil development, a big-bets industry that mythologizes risk.
"Bush's views are honed more by experience than by information," said a Republican strategist. "For Bush, cutting taxes is not a philosophy. It's the result of spending much of his life immersed in a milieu with people who groused that taxes stifle investment and innovation."
Reagan, who became president just before his 70th birthday, arrived at the Oval Office pretty much a finished product. Bush is still more of a work in progress. But they seem to share a palate of beliefs that mix Christian moralism, American nationalism, laissez-faire economics laced with a heavy dose of supply-side theory and a general mistrust of federal government as inefficient and unaccountable.
Each spent his first wad of political capital pushing a large tax cut -- even as oceans of red ink rose around him. Reagan's first tax bill was more sweeping, but as the details of Bush's next budget make clear, he's nowhere near finished. Each man talked about tax cuts as a way to unleash private energy and, secondarily, as a way to starve oppressive government.
Martin Anderson, who was Reagan's domestic policy chief, helped organize policy tutorials for Bush during the campaign, and says he often felt he was watching a new incarnation of Reagan. "On taxes, on education, it was the same. On Social Security, Bush's position was exactly what Reagan always wanted and talked about in the 70's," he said. "I just can't think of any major policy issue on which Bush was different."
Bush talks, as Reagan did, about a world of black and white, and tends to measure his counterparts in politics and world affairs by a moral standard. Diplomacy was personal for Reagan; once he recognized Mikhail Gorbachev as a genuine reformer, he left behind his most doctrinaire anti-Communist advisers in his willingness to do business with the Soviet Union. Bush is like that, too.
Each man had a trauma early in his presidency, a violent epiphany, that won him an outpouring of popular support and confirmed in him a sense of destiny. For Reagan, it was being shot, almost fatally, outside the Washington Hilton just two months after his inauguration. For Bush, of course, it was Sept. 11.
Both men are optimists -- an appealing quality in politicians, since a prerequisite for setting out to make things better is a faith that they can become better. The optimism is more guarded in Bush than it was in Reagan, who was our sunniest modern president.
And perhaps the most important similarity of all: each man will be remembered as a risk-taker. They each have an impulse for the audacious. Bush has consistently pressed for more aggressive options in the war on terror -- not sending a cruise missile at an empty tent, but declaring war on all terrorist groups with global reach and states that harbor them, authorizing a war in Afghanistan based on untested new tactics and technology. Now he seems bent on a war with Iraq and a game of diplomatic chicken with North Korea.
"Reagan and this Bush both have that presidential temperament," said Lou Cannon, who has written four Reagan biographies and is at work on his fifth. "They don't commit themselves quickly, but when they do they don't second-guess themselves. They're willing to take the main chance."
There is a classic "Saturday Night Live" Reagan skit in which, as soon as the cameras are gone and the Oval Office door is closed, the amiable chucklehead becomes a slightly sinister strategic mastermind. It was hilarious precisely because we all believed in the genial dimwit. Even now, even after he has taken the country to war, it is possible to imagine the same skit featuring George W. Bush. Both of these presidents inspired, and to some extent still inspire, a frisson of disbelief: how did this guy get to be president of the mightiest nation on earth?
Standing Bush and Reagan side by side is interesting not least because of the way both men have been taken so lightly by the pundits and scholars and political savants and late-night humorists who so often set the tone of political discourse. Their presidential gaffes have been compiled in amusing paperbacks sold at bookstore checkout counters. They have been mocked for their inability to master detail, for their devotion to facts that are not facts, for their seeming lack of intellectual heft. In the European press especially, both started off as cowboys and buffoons.
Reagan was dreamy, prone to confuse movies with real life, capable of forgetting the names of his cabinet members; Bush is inarticulate, likely to lose his place midthought and inclined to lowbrow bluster. The conservative columnist Robert Novak has said that Bush has "the smallest vocabulary of any president I've ever seen." David Frum, a conservative who worked as a Bush speechwriter, has written that "conspicuous intelligence seemed actively unwelcome in the Bush White House."
Both presidents, schooled in the discipline of message, can sound to those who listen for a living as if they have been programmed by some attending Svengali.
"This business of saying the same thing over and over and over again -- which to a lot of Washington insiders and pundits is boring -- works," Deaver said. "That was sort of what we figured out in the Reagan White House. And I think these people do it very, very well."
It is not just highbrow condescension. Although Reagan won handily in 1980, many voters were uneasy about his bellicose rhetoric and his novelty economics, along with his Hollywood credentials. Twenty years later the exit polls found that 42 percent of voters felt Bush was incapable of handling a world crisis and that 44 percent felt he did not "know enough" to handle the presidency. Of those who voted for Bush, 51 percent said they had reservations about their vote.
These numbers have pretty much been erased since Sept. 11, but some conservatives still worry that Bush, like Reagan, will be diminished in the first draft of history because he is held to be a lightweight by the kind of people who write those first drafts.
David Frum has just published an admiring insider book about the Bush presidency -- jumping in early, he told me, because he feared that Bush's legacy would be hijacked by liberal critics if conservatives did not stake their claim early.
As it happens, Reagan has been enjoying an intellectual rehabilitation. The publication in 2001 of Reagan's original, handwritten scripts for the radio homilies he delivered caused many skeptics to concede that he was a better writer and thinker than most had generally imagined. Martin Anderson, who edited the volume and who presides over something of a Reagan industry at the Hoover Institution, is at work on a follow-up volume of Reagan's private letters. Noonan's book exalting the Reagan presidency as the triumph of character was a best seller last year. The History Channel ran a gauzy tribute in November.
Not all of the Reagan revisionism has been so kind, though. Frances FitzGerald, focusing on the Reagan ballistic missile defense scheme in her absorbing 2000 book, "Way Out There in the Blue," detected a large measure of political opportunism behind the idealistic visionary. (She also deflated the myth that Star Wars did in Soviet Communism.) But interest in Reagan runs high, and the trend in appraisals is favorable.
Notwithstanding occasional cloudbursts of scorn from the great Eastern liberal conspiracy, the establishment view of Bush has also moved significantly. We have already gone in two years from the affable campaign doofus portrayed in Alexandra Pelosi's HBO documentary and Frank Bruni's election memoir, "Ambling Into History," to the incisive, decisive chief executive of Bob Woodward's war-room reconstruction, "Bush at War." That transformation cannot be entirely written off as a masterful spin job, nor entirely attributed to a presidential growth spurt following the grave challenge of the terror attacks. There is something there, some pre-existing quality, that avid Bush critics have missed.
One of the biggest mistakes people have made about Bush is to look at all the seasoned pros he hired and take that as a sign of weakness. Much Washington punditry still insinuates that Dick Cheney is the presidential ventriloquist, that Rove is the political mastermind -- and that Bush is in over his head. This seems to me wrongheaded. In most of the world an executive who surrounds himself with highly competent advisers is regarded as admirably self-confident.
Lou Cannon points out that both Reagan and Bush picked vice presidents (George H. W. Bush and Dick Cheney, respectively) with resumes far more impressive than their own. Contrast that to Nixon's choice of Spiro Agnew or Bush Sr.'s of Dan Quayle -- gravitas-free running mates seemingly intended not to overshadow the president. 
Speaking of Reagan and the younger Bush, Cannon told me, "They don't have a huge ego, and that enables you to get really strong people around you. Reagan never took umbrage, when I was covering him, if Jim Baker got credit for something, or George Shultz. It never bothered him a bit. Bush has that. If Cheney or Rumsfeld gets credit, that's fine with him."
The White House is, to be sure, protective, intolerant of public dissent, cautious about putting the gaffe-prone president into situations (like regular press conferences) where he might embarrass himself. But Bush has shown a willingness to overrule his better-credentialed aides on important matters, including Cheney on the decision to take Iraq to the United Nations.
"You can't watch Bush and Cheney together for half a minute and feel any doubt about who is the trusted adviser and who is the president," says Frum, who was himself initially unimpressed by Bush.
As for the idea that Bush is lazy, incurious or just not very bright, his supporters argue that critics have tended to judge the president by standards that are superficial or misleading. Bush is not, like Bill Clinton, a polymath who can dazzle you with his mastery of detail, who can speak for hours without notes, who can argue an issue from a dozen sides. He is, they say, adept at focusing an issue, asking the pertinent questions, relegating distractions to the sidelines, driving on to a decision and sticking to it.
Compare the disciplined Bush of "Bush at War" with the Bill Clinton of another recent insider book, Kenneth Pollack's "Threatening Storm." That book, a case for going to war against Iraq, portrays the Clinton administration (in which Pollack served) prolonging the discussions while recoiling from the big decisions, equivocating, shifting ground, always looking to keep options open.
"Good advice doesn't come in a box marked 'good advice,' " Frum says. "No president can know all he needs to know. What you want, above all, is somebody who's got the ability to recognize good choices when they are presented to him."
On wednesday mornings, the Washington foot soldiers of the right -- the gun rights people, the anti-abortion groups, the privatize-everything lobby, the tax-cut enthusiasts -- meet to talk strategy at the office of Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform. The active political right can be roughly divided into conservatives and revolutionaries -- those who are governed by a sense of caution and pragmatism, whether the issue is sustaining the economy or keeping the world safe for American interests, and those who have a fervor to change the fundamentals and are willing to break some eggs to do it. The Norquist meeting is omelet central.
Those, like Norquist, who have been around through periods of frustration and irrelevance have not felt so pumped since the heady and short-lived House rule of Newt Gingrich -- and that was the passion of opposition. Now the White House sends emissaries to their meetings and treats them as allies. They sense that this is Reagan redux, and while some wonder -- as ideologues often wonder when in the company of politicians -- if they are being used, Norquist assures them that in Bush they have a serviceable marriage of political expedience and radical agenda.
Norquist has been a field marshal and a kind of political id for Reagan and Gingrich. He is convinced that Bush, unlike his father, both buys the basic rightist, leave-us-alone agenda on principle and believes that, properly articulated, it is the route to sustained political gain for his party. "Bush 41 didn't learn from Reagan," Norquist told me. "His whole view of what was doable was determined pre-Reagan. George W. is a post-Reagan president. He came of age watching Reagan succeed and his father fail. With Bush, this stuff is visceral."
Under the first President Bush, of course, the pragmatists were clearly in charge. Under Reagan -- and again now -- the play-it-safers and the boat-rockers coexist in a state of tension, an energetic, charged equilibrium. 
This is most obvious in the area where least was expected of Bush: his engagement of the world. Bush has been willing to throw overboard reams of established foreign-policy doctrine in his enthusiastic assumption of the role of solo superpower, scrapping the ABM treaty, scheduling the first deployment of antimissile batteries and enshrining "pre-emption" as the American military doctrine. In Reagan's administrations, scorn for treaties and international organizations as an encumbrance on American power was rife, but not dominant. It is the default position in the Bush White House.
Reagan had within his administrations a coterie of moralists, mostly in the second and third tier, who advocated an interventionist role for America. Bush, of course, does, too. They are, many of them, the same people: Paul Wolfowitz and Douglas Feith at the Pentagon (and Richard Perle in an advisory role), Richard Armitage and John Bolton at the State Department, U.N. Ambassador John Negroponte, Elliott Abrams at the National Security Council and others.
"When George Bush Sr. took over as president, Jim Baker couldn't wait to sweep out these old Reagan people," one senior Reagan aide said. "They had no positions to speak of in the first Bush administration. But now they're back."
From Reagan's "evil empire" to Bush's "axis of evil," clarity of purpose is now the posture, if not always the practice, of American policy. Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, sees this as the clearest similarity between Bush and Reagan -- an assertion of moral certainty, even when it makes some people squirm. By framing the struggle with Communism, and now the war on terror, as a fight of good versus evil, she says, these presidents delegitimized the enemy and forced the argument beyond mere tactics.
"Many people are much more comfortable with on-the-one-hand-on-the-other-hand explanations," she said. "But there are very often cases where there are not arguments on both sides. And I think President Bush has been pretty willing, when that is the case, to speak in black-and-white terms."
Righteous purpose is strong stuff, and it can be highly flammable. It's worth remembering that moral certainty led Reagan's administration into the culminating scandal of Iran-contra, the scheme to sell missiles to Iran and divert the profits to arm anti-Communist guerrillas in Nicaragua. Bush has not only rehired several of the Iran-contra intriguers, but he has also reproduced elements of the climate in which the plot was hatched -- obsessive secrecy, a premium on loyalty, a taste for working through foreign proxies, an impatience with Congressional oversight.
Four years after he last slept in the White House and two years before he wrote an eloquent farewell to America and drifted into the fog of Alzheimer's, Reagan gave a speech that suggested how he might have coped with the messy world Bush inhabits. In December 1992, he walked into the Oxford Union, his perpetual tan offset by a light blue suit, and took his place behind the twin teleprompters that accompanied him on his travels.
"Evil still stalks the planet," he declared. At the time, the first President Bush was confounded by the horrors of failing states from Somalia to Yugoslavia. Al Qaeda's brand of stateless terrorism had not yet riveted the world's attention, but it was clear that some sort of ill-defined mayhem was replacing Communism as the main worry for Western civilization. Reagan had presided over the end of the cold war, but his successor, for all his talk of a new world order, had made little headway in defining what that would be. Now Reagan offered his answer: a great, humanitarian coalition in which America would stand alongside other civilized states.
Most of his life, Reagan conceded, he had seen international organizations like the United Nations as an encumbrance, as "debating societies" and hotbeds of hostility toward America. But the end of the cold war had liberated these organizations for a higher purpose. He proposed nothing less than a standing "army of conscience," operated by the United Nations, to carve out humanitarian sanctuaries from evil.
The speech received almost no attention here, but it is amazing to read now, when Reagan's spiritual successor is laboring to answer the same questions of American purpose. Bush's new American imperialism -- he would prefer to call it leadership -- seems a far cry from Reagan's idealistic Oxford vision of common cause. In practice, though, I imagine Reagan would have been game to go it alone when the United Nations tried his patience, and Bush, for his part, has found it useful to temper his unilateral impulses. Bush's speech to the United Nations, warning the world body of irrelevance if it did not rise to the challenge of Iraq, was not so far in spirit from Reagan's -- though a Bush "army of conscience" seems more likely to be wearing the uniforms of the 101st Airborne than the blue helmets of the U.N.
Bush's domestic policy is (as Reagan's was) less coherent, obscured as it is by the preoccupation with a menacing world, and more subject to the vagaries of electoral politics. A couple of months ago, the conventional wisdom was that Bush had no domestic agenda. He had gotten his tax cut and a version of his education plan, and that was pretty much the end of it. But it should be amply clear by now that Bush is determined to break from the center-hugging course -- the incrementalism, fiscal prudence, and moderation -- that characterized the presidencies of his father and Clinton. 
Bush has not just cut taxes; he has pushed tax cuts with a supply-side bias -- that is, with the professed aim of stimulating investment rather than consumer demand, and too bad if this favors the rich or engorges the debt. He has persisted in arguing for tax cuts long after many Republicans, especially the cautionary voices of big business, have started worrying more about the deficit.
Many Republicans, anxious about red ink and wary of the Democrats, expected Bush to tack toward the middle, perhaps pre-empting the Democrats by cutting the payroll tax, which would most benefit lower-income taxpayers. (Even Reagan, without recanting in the slightest his devotion to the gospel of tax reduction, responded to mounting deficits by signing three tax increases into law.) On the contrary, Bush's latest budget plan is a fresh splash of Reaganism -- eliminating taxes on dividends altogether, for instance. 
Bush has already surpassed Reagan in advocating a shift of responsibilities from government to the private sector, and from the federal governments to the states. The aim to partly privatize retirement (through individual investment accounts), education (through vouchers) and welfare (through faith-based charities) has proceeded gradually, and with some temporary retreats, but no one close to Bush doubts that it is a sustained crusade. You could easily imagine Reagan's husky chuckle the other day as Bush announced plans to outsource up to 850,000 federal jobs -- about half the government's civilian work force -- to private contractors. This is on top of the 170,000 federal employees who will lose most of their contract protections when they are folded into the new Department of Homeland Security. In the name of efficiency, Bush stands not only to weaken the federal apparat, but also to bleed the public employee unions -- the lone growth sector of organized labor. By regulation and legislative initiative, the Bush administration has been methodically undermining what remains of organized labor's influence. If, as some labor experts believe, the precipitous decline of union clout began in 1981, when Reagan dismissed striking air-traffic controllers, then Bush is indeed continuing Reagan's work with relish.
Bush's appointees to federal regulatory bodies like the Federal Communications Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission have, of course, been as ardently antiregulation as Reagan's, and Bush has been, if anything, more willing to brandish executive powers to accomplish deregulatory missions that might face a hard time in Congress. His scorn for environmentalists as naysayers, nit-pickers and limit-mongers is undisguised, as was Reagan's.
A world without trade barriers, in which markets spread a balm of democracy, is another Reagan dream to which Bush has professed allegiance. (Reagan first proposed a free trade zone for North America in 1979.) Here it is tempting to say the comparison breaks down. Among those who believe Bush puts political expedience above principle, there is no more damning evidence than his decision in March to slap punitive tariffs on steel imports, and his condoning of similar anticompetitive favors to the farm and textile industries. The Republican faithful were scandalized by how readily the man who preaches free trade was willing to pander to protectionist sentiment.
The indignation was justified, but possibly premature. Yes, White House officials concede, the steel tariffs were part of a political calculation, but one they insist serves a larger strategic end. The tariffs were used to persuade lawmakers in steel and textile states that Bush was not some free-trade zealot who would endanger American jobs if he was given greater freedom to negotiate trade deals without Congress looking over his shoulder. With those bartered votes, Bush won that authority by the narrowest of margins.
The president's next act got nowhere near as much attention as his protectionist backsliding. In November he proposed to the World Trade Organization that tariffs on all industrial and consumer goods be phased out, reaching zero in the year 2015. The proposal -- like Reagan's free-trade proposals -- was regarded skeptically, as a rhetorical gambit or a negotiating posture, and it may prove to be nothing more. But textile-state lawmakers were alarmed, and they have come to believe that on free trade Bush is dead serious.
So, incidentally, have the Teamsters. The conservative trucking brotherhood is one of the few unions Bush has actively courted. But in November he stiffed them on one of their highest priorities. He ordered that Mexican truckers be permitted to transport goods from south of the border anywhere in the United States. This, by the way, was another case of Bush finding the sweet spot where political advantage and principle coexist. By moving to open cross-border traffic this way, he infuriated the Teamsters -- who have taken him to court -- but he sent a valentine to the 20 million people of Mexican descent who live in America. 
The point is not that Bush won't do what it takes to be re-elected. He will co-opt and retailor Democratic ideas (as he has done on the creation of a Homeland Security Department and prescription drug coverage), he will temporarily drop issues when the time is not right (as he did on school vouchers) and he will compromise (as he did, for example, by going along with the federalization of airport security). But for all the political tacking, this is a president with a discernible direction, and it is not the middle of the road.
"Bush 43 is exactly where Reagan was, but he stands on Reagan's shoulders," Norquist said. 
When the pollster Richard Wirthlin began working with Reagan, then governor of California, in 1969, he was puzzled by the fact that Reagan consistently polled six to nine points higher than any of the opinion research models predicted. It took Wirthlin a few years to figure out the problem. The forecasting models were weighted heavily toward issues -- whether or not voters felt a candidate held compatible views on a checklist of subjects.
"Issues appeal rationally, but Reagan appealed way beyond the rational dimension," Wirthlin recalls. "He tapped into values." Thus while many voters found Reagan's specific positions too conservative, they voted for him anyway because he seemed to care about the kind of things they cared about, and they generally trusted him to do the right thing. Bush, says Wirthlin, connects in the same way.
Bush's father and Bill Clinton were programmatic presidents. For any problem, they had a five-point plan. Al Gore, of course, was the ultimate wonk candidate, the man of to-do lists, the man who badgered Bush during the final debate to declare his view of "the Dingell-Norwood bill," whatever that was. Bush, though he has a better command of detail than Reagan, is not facile enough to play that game, and when he does let himself get pinned down on the details, he exposes the fact that on taxes or guns or abortion he is more conservative than most voters.
"Bush instinctively, and Rove intellectually and tactically, knew they should not compete issue by issue," said a Republican strategist. "Clinton and Gore had the edge. So you got a values campaign: 'an era of responsibility,' 'leave no child behind' and, of course, 'compassion.' "
As president, Bush has continued to emphasize themes -- encapsulated in slogans, stenciled on backdrops, illustrated by powerful visuals. Matthew Dowd, who runs polling for the Republican National Committee, said Bush's inattention to detail -- so easily mocked -- hurts him not at all with voters. "Voters are pretty sophisticated," Dowd said. "They think nitty-gritty detail is going to be decided by Congress anyway. It's more important to connect on principles and values."
In the alchemy of politics, moreover, stupid can be smart. Presidents who don't pretend to be supervising every detail are less likely to be blamed when details go awry.
Reagan, whose swing voters were Southerners and blue-collar Democrats, sometimes deployed the language of values to stir resentment. Bush, who hopes to add more suburban women and Hispanics to the Republican base, has managed to market fundamental changes as a gentle, centrist agenda.
"Reagan's rhetoric on welfare was the welfare Cadillac cheat," said a senior White House official. "Bush's rhetoric is that welfare saps the soul and drains the spirit." This is probably little consolation to the poor, who face ever more stringent work requirements unaccompanied by money to help pay for child care.
If people basically trust Bush when he professes humanitarian concern on subjects like welfare, prescription drugs, education and retirement -- and so far most seem to trust him -- then he can bring about changes that would have frightened the electorate in Reagan's day.
The best example of this is Social Security. Before he was elected president, Reagan proposed allowing individuals to "opt out" of Social Security. But when, soon after taking office, he sent Congress a proposal to slash the retirement program, the plan hit a buzz saw. He never dared offering legislation to privatize Social Security, although the idea was discussed.
Martin Feldstein, who was chairman of Reagan's Council of Economic Advisers, said they couldn't figure out a way to do it without arousing a panicky backlash among elderly voters. When Feldstein worked with candidate Bush on the design of his tax and Social Security proposals, though, he was impressed that Bush had discerned a new political opportunity that may outweigh the fears of the elderly. Polls showed that younger and middle-aged voters were comfortable with individual retirement instruments like 401(k) programs. Moreover, the anxiety about whether Social Security will be around when they retire, which has always been seen as an argument for shoring up the status quo, is in Bush's mind an argument for inventing something new. 
Thus while the administration is still debating the timing of an assault on Social Security -- are voters ready for it before 2004? How big a setback was the implosion of Enron's retirement plan? -- the president no longer regards Social Security as the lethal "third rail" of American politics. It is likely to be one of the big bets of his presidency.
Bush's thematic approach to tectonic changes in government is not all marketing gloss. Bush is not, at heart, as antigovernment as Reagan was, in part because much about government that antagonized people in the 1980's has been ameliorated. Top tax rates that seemed stifling at 70 percent are now around 40 percent. Absurd excesses of regulation have been reduced, and entitlements like welfare no longer inspire the same anger. And of course the threat of terrorism has awakened, not least in Bush himself, a greater appreciation that government has a purpose.
Thus while Reagan tried to abolish the federal Department of Education, Bush has tried instead to refashion it as an enforcer of accountability in the states and cities where most education decisions get made. (Testing, more than vouchers, has always been Bush's great enthusiasm in education.) 
Whether the rationale is sound management or ideology, though, the results are no less substantial. Private retirement accounts, faith-based initiatives, vouchers, outsourcing and volunteerism all diminish the role of government in favor of the marketplace and individual responsibility.
There is little prospect, of course, that Bush will actually shrink the government. But then Reagan didn't, either. Thanks to the armor of special interests and to the predilection of presidents to do things, Reagan left behind a much bigger federal enterprise than he inherited, including a whole new cabinet department (Veterans Affairs) and 60,000 more employees. Reagan asked Americans to dream heroic dreams, but he rarely asked them to give up anything. President Bush, even with a war on, shows no greater desire to bet on sacrifice.
When he was compiling Reagan's radio addresses for publication, Martin Anderson found himself wondering how often Reagan had discussed abortion. He searched 1,044 scripts and found exactly one speech on the subject. In it, Reagan justified abortion to protect the health of the mother or in cases of rape, thus falling well short of the right-to-life hard line. As governor, he signed one of the most liberal state abortion laws, and as president he did little directly to challenge the essentially permissive state of American law.
Yet Reagan was always treated by the anti-abortion constituency as a kindred spirit. This is another Reagan lesson Bush seems to have taken on board: if you have underlying credibility with the advocacy groups, you do not have to undertake quixotic efforts on their behalf.
Friends say that on abortion, gay rights, school prayer and other culture-war issues, Reagan's sympathy for the religious right bumped up against his hands-off view of government, and against his reading of the public mood. Bush, like Reagan, understands that Americans like a good example, but they won't abide a scold. He has thus managed to champion both "traditional" values and "inclusiveness," and when the two are hard to reconcile -- on gay rights, for instance -- he avoids the issue.
A fine example of Bush's instinct to tiptoe around cultural land mines was his intervention the other day in a Supreme Court case on university admissions. Operating in the backwash of the Trent Lott affair, with Republicans scrambling to demonstrate their empathy for black voters, Bush endorsed "diversity" and denounced "quotas," but in his legal brief he ducked the hard question of whether racial preference is ever allowable. 
Bush's concessions to the culture warriors may be meaningful, but they will not be frontal. He can, and has, cut off aid to family-planning programs overseas. He can, and will, sign a bill outlawing the procedure critics call partial-birth abortion. And he will appoint federal judges whom the right finds congenial. (Asked during the campaign to identify his favorite Supreme Court justices, Bush named Clarence Thomas and Antonin Scalia, exciting conservatives to the point of ecstasy.)
He can also appeal to the anti-abortion movement by restricting new technologies like stem-cell research. In the months before Sept. 11, Bush went through an agonizing public process of deciding, and concluded that stem cells should be treated as human life. As Frum points out, this was the biggest political victory the "pro-life" lobby had enjoyed in many years, but it was accomplished without riling Americans who favor abortion rights.
In promoting his agenda, Reagan had the advantages of a silken tongue (which Bush does not) and a demoralized opposition (which Bush shares). While polls earlier this month showed the first flickers of doubt about Bush's conduct, his 58 percent approval rating is identical to Reagan's when he won his 49-state re-election victory in 1984. Bush has a few other things going for him that Reagan lacked.
First, the national war footing has generated a swell of patriotism and shared anxiety that floats not only a more muscular foreign policy but also much of the president's domestic agenda, at least until now. The president has little hesitation in invoking the war on terror on behalf of just about anything. Second, the economy, while dyspeptic, is suffering in a different way than it did in Reagan's day. In the 1980's Reagan's ambition to reduce the size of government, and particularly the relentless growth of entitlements, was impeded by the high rate of inflation. Inflation drives up the cost of government programs and makes people cling to the security of the federal safety net. Inflation today is the least of the economy's problems. Third, Bush has a friendlier and more cohesive Republican majority in Congress than Reagan had for most of his tenure.
Bush has a firmer hand on his executive branch too. Under Reagan and Bush, the tensions between conservatives and radicals have been personified by divisions among their top advisers. The skirmishes between Colin Powell's State Department and Donald Rumsfeld's Pentagon over the projection of American power had their precursors under Reagan, when Secretary of State George Shultz and Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger clashed. Shultz, like Powell, was sometimes in the position of taming the in-house idealists, and like Powell, he sometimes suffered the slings of archconservatives. Bush, like Reagan, presides over an uneasy coexistence of tax-cut zealots and deficit hawks.
But Bush is undoubtedly Reagan's superior in the executive management of a divided, competitive staff. Reagan delegated all but the biggest decisions. He recoiled from internal conflict and could not bear to fire anyone. (David Stockman, the budget director, unburdened himself to a reporter on the voodoo of Reagan's economics and kept his job anyway.) The Reagan years were marked by angry resignations, endless wars of leaks and back-stabbing. Bush, perhaps by virtue of his business education and experience -- and his years as, in effect, a junior White House staff member to his father -- is more personally engaged in sorting out the issues, maintaining the discipline and culling the misfits. By comparison with that of Reagan's day, the tension between the diplomats and the moralists, between the tax-eliminators and the deficit hawks, between the idealists and the realists, has been contained and synthesized into a common cause. A result is that Bush is less likely than Reagan to be constrained by contention in his own ranks.
There was about Reagan, like it or not, a dream of America and its potential that was often utopian. It was easy to ridicule -- as the first President Bush did with his memorable sneer at the "vision thing" -- but it made Reagan more than the sum of his advisers and his constituencies.
What is Bush's morning in America? He clearly has the instinct to do big things, and barring some failure of leadership -- a serious misadventure abroad, a corroding economy -- he has the license. What does America look like if he succeeds?
Two years ago the question would have seemed ridiculous. We knew America had to be governed from the center. That was the lesson of Bill Clinton's popularity, it was the constraint imposed by a divided electorate and in Bush's case it was the price of a minority victory. Bush had no mandate. But Bush, like Reagan, seems to believe that presidents make their own mandates.
What Bush is striving for, on the evidence of the choices he has made so far, is bold in its ambition: markets unleashed, resources exploited. A progressive tax system leveled, a country unashamed of wealth. Government entitlements gradually replaced by thrift, self-reliance and private good will. The safety net strung closer to the ground. Government itself infused with, in some cases supplanted by, the efficiency and accountability of a well-run corporation. A court system dedicated to protecting property and private enterprise and enforcing individual responsibility. A global common market that hums to the tune of American productivity. In the world, America rampant -- unfettered by international law, unflinching when challenged, unmatchable in its might, more interested in being respected than in being loved.
If he fails, my guess is that it will be a failure not of caution but of overreaching, which means it will be failure on a grand scale. If he succeeds, he will move us toward an America Ronald Reagan would have been happy to call his own. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Burnett/Contact Press Images; Charles Ommanney/Contact Press Images; Gagosian Gallery; Photomontage by Daniel Lee) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SCANDALS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); TERRORISM (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (74%); AL-QAEDA (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); LARRY GAGOSIAN (59%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); YEMEN (92%); KENYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



838 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: MIDSTREAM; 
Can Baby Boomers Afford a Tax Cut on Dividends?

BYLINE:  By JAMES SCHEMBARI; James Schembari is an editor at The Times. His column on the prime earning, spending and striving years appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: jimschem@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
I'M trying to become excited about the president's proposal to cut the taxes on stock dividends, but I'm having trouble. I am no fan of paying taxes and take advantage of every deduction, so the opportunity to pay less is very attractive. My problem is, because it will worsen the deficit, can my generation afford this tax break?
 President Bush unveiled his tax-cut plan this month. The biggest component is the elimination of taxes on dividends, which he said would put about $364 billion into the hands of investors over the next decade. 
 A study on the president's plan by the Tax Policy Center in Washington, a moderate-to-liberal research organization run by the Brookings Institution and the Urban Institute, says, however, that the savings would be more like $123 a year for the average investor under age 65.
The study shows that those under 65 making $40,000 to $50,000 a year would save an average of $31, with that increasing to $306 for those making $100,000 to $200,000. The biggest beneficiaries would be people making more than $1 million. Their annual tax savings would be about $22,700.
The president's total tax plan is expected to increase the deficit more than $50 billion this year alone, and that could hurt baby boomers.
William G. Gale, a senior fellow and economist at Brookings who participated in the Tax Policy Center study, said the increased deficit could eventually force cuts in the social service programs that boomers will soon begin using in large numbers. "It creates a huge debt," he said. "If you look at what we spend money on -- Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security -- it will come right back and hit the baby boomers. I don't see this as a pro-baby boomer tax cut. Somehow we have to pay for this and the big money to cut is in the entitlement programs."
I didn't want to hear that, because I would do O.K. under the dividend tax cut. My tax break would be about $1,500 a year. Being a conservative guy who for decades has had an investment strategy of a person almost twice my age, my biggest stock holding is, I'm embarrassed to say, an electric utility. But every quarter, at just about the time I'm wondering if I have enough to pay the credit card bill in full that month, the utility takes me off the hook by directly depositing $1,100 into my checking account. I'm not too embarrassed to take it.
It is difficult to say how the baby-boomer generation would fare under the dividend tax cut. It is obvious that upper-income people will do better. And since taxes are already deferred on dividends paid on stocks held in retirement plans like individual retirement accounts and 401(k)'s, it is the investors who hold stocks outside of these plans who will benefit the most.
Federal Reserve data shows that about 20 percent of families headed by people in their 40's and early 50's -- baby-boomer years -- own stocks outside their retirement plans, but the study doesn't say if those stocks pay dividends. So at the most, one in five baby boomers would be affected by the tax plan.
"It's not going to do much for the average taxpayer," Mr. Gale said. "The average taxpayer doesn't even get dividends."
Richard Grossarth, 57, a retired owner of a men's clothing store in Monroe, N.Y., gets a few, but he's not as concerned about the dividend tax as he is about the capital gains tax.
Mr. Grossarth owns 10 stocks that pay dividends and can't imagine changing his investment strategy because of the tax cut. He is not buying new stocks these days and is not about to sell stocks that do not pay dividends to buy others that do. 
"If I sold them, I would have capital gains," he said. "I don't think that would make sense. And if I did sell, I would probably use the money to live on."
Joseph M. Murtagh, a financial planner and president of the Source, an investment management firm in Goshen, N.Y., said the best strategy was just to wait, because the nondividend stocks may soon start paying dividends.
Indeed, Microsoft, which has long resisted paying a dividend, announced this month that it would begin paying one. As a shareholder, I was happy to learn that.
"Take time, watch what is occurring, because what will likely happen is that all companies are going to modify their dividend-paying policy," Mr. Murtagh said. "Instead of taking the capital gains hit, wait and see if they increase their dividend."
Tom Trapp, 52, president of Bear Brook Design, a media communications company in Washingtonville, N.Y., said he won't really benefit from the dividend tax cut. All of his investments are in annuities and retirement plans. His worry is the deficit the cut would create. The tax cut, he said, just wasn't worth it.
"A part of me says this is great, but I have employees who have families with young kids," said Mr. Trapp, who has two children himself. "What kind of future are we creating for them? It drives me crazy. I'll be long gone, and my children will be paying for this forever."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Dave Klug) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); DIVIDENDS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); BONDS (70%); MEDICARE (68%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (60%); MEDICAID (57%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (50%) TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STOCKS AND BONDS 

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) SCHEMBARI, JAMES; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003 



839 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
F.C.C. Expected to Extend Satellite Operators' Reach

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
After months of rumors that a decision would be handed down "any day now," the Federal Communications Commission is expected to announce this week that satellite voice and data companies can supplement their services with land-based wireless networks. 
 That outcome would be a victory for satellite operators, led by Craig O. McCaw's ICO Global Communications, over conventional wireless companies like Verizon Wireless and Cingular, which have bitterly opposed the concept since the F.C.C. released a preliminary proposal and asked for public comments nearly a year and a half ago. 
 Lobbyists on both sides say the F.C.C. has concluded that the satellite operators cannot succeed financially unless they are allowed to use some of their allotted spectrum for land-based networks to extend their voice and data services into urban areas and indoor locations where satellite signals are obstructed. 
F.C.C. officials declined to comment. 
Communications analysts and companies involved in the debate also expect the commission to announce that it will reclaim and auction off a portion of the radio spectrum that was reserved for satellite communications but has not been used. Conventional cellular and other wireless companies would be eligible to bid for that spectrum to expand their own land-based networks.
Industry executives predict that the F.C.C. may also discuss its plans to revoke the licenses of satellite companies that have failed to meet certain requirements in the deployment of their networks.
Taken together, the new rules could be a major step in the F.C.C.'s efforts under its chairman, Michael K. Powell, to foster more flexible and efficient use of the radio spectrum. Depending on the details, the rulings could either reinvigorate or hasten the collapse of the ambitious dreams of Mr. McCaw, who made his fortune in cellular telephone networks.
"Spectrum is the gold of the early 21st century," said Robert A. Mazer, a Washington lawyer who represents Constellation Communications, a start-up satellite company that is merging with ICO in an effort to avoid losing F.C.C.-assigned spectrum that it has been unable to use. 
But Mr. Mazer and others cautioned that the new rules could easily become mired in appeals and lawsuits, similar to the commission's bitterly contested effort to reallocate spectrum originally auctioned to NextWave Telecom, a land-based wireless company that went bankrupt. That issue is being decided by the United States Supreme Court.
The most closely watched part of the rules will be the conditions that the commission sets for when and how the satellite operators can branch into land-based operations. The agency has been forced to walk a tightrope between the satellite operators, who argue that they cannot survive without plenty of leeway, and their land-based wireless rivals, like Verizon, Cingular and AT&T Wireless. Engineering the new spectrum arrangements to avoid radio interference has also been a major challenge. 
The conventional wireless companies have argued fruitlessly that the satellite companies have no right to operate on land without first buying spectrum for such services, just as the land-based companies were required to do. As a second line of defense, Verizon and the others have urged the agency to place tough restrictions on the satellite companies, like requiring their customers to have dual-mode phones capable of reaching satellites directly. 
"This is a very important precedent," said Diane Cornell, vice president for regulatory policy at the Cellular Telecommunications and Internet Association, a trade group for the land-based wireless companies. "They are talking about giving away spectrum we paid billions of dollars for." 
Satellite operators, who are regulated by both international and national bodies, do not pay for their right to use the airwaves. That arrangement is an inducement to provide communications to regions so thinly populated or remote that traditional wired and wireless companies cannot afford to serve them. 
But the economics of satellite communications remain risky. Companies like Iridium and Globalstar, which attempted to provide two-way voice and data communications via low-altitude satellites, have gone bankrupt. ICO, which has one satellite in orbit and 10 under construction, has said it would not be able to attract enough investors to complete and operate its $3.7 billion network without clearance to use some of its spectrum for land service.
"All your cost is sunk before you take in any revenue," said Gerry Salemme, a spokesman in Washington for ICO, a London-based company that Mr. McCaw acquired after it went bankrupt in 2001. "It's the worst economics in wireless."
Satellite operators say they have benefited from new technology that reduces the size and power consumption of phones and laptops that can work with their networks. But customers also need to use the devices where satellite connections are not feasible, the companies say.
ICO has proposed that the commission could ensure that land-based services in the satellite spectrum were only "ancillary" by requiring that a satellite system be operating before any land-based service was offered. But the wireless companies represented by Ms. Cornell argue that this would give companies like ICO too much leeway to set up land-based systems that could end up using the more expensive satellite links only as a last resort and for only small portions of their overall traffic.
If that happened, she said, the commission would simply be adding more competitors to the already crowded urban wireless market. The likely result, she said, would be financial losses that would undermine the satellite companies' ability to meet the commission's goal of serving rural areas.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Craig O. McCaw, chairman of ICO Global Communications, with three prototypes of small satellite base stations that would communicate directly with cellphones. Mr. McCaw wants satellite companies like his to gain land-based access. (Gerard Burkhart for The New York Times); Michael K. Powell, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission. (Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE INDUSTRY (91%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); BROADBAND (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (77%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); LAWYERS (63%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; SATELLITES; CELLULAR TELEPHONES 

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (86%); AT&T INC (84%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (84%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 

TICKER: T (NYSE) (84%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (86%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (86%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%)

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



840 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
Crime is soaring in cyberspace, but many companies keep it quiet.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
CYBERCRIME, long a painful side effect of the innovations of Internet technology, is reaching new dimensions, security experts say. Spurred by a tightening economy, the increasing riches flowing through cyberspace and the relative ease of such crimes, technically skilled thieves and rank-and-file employees are stealing millions if not billions of dollars a year from businesses in the United States and abroad, according to consultants who track cybercrime.
 Thieves are not just diverting cash from company bank accounts, these experts say. They are pilfering valuable information like business development strategies, new product specifications or contract bidding plans and selling the data to competitors. 
 "Criminal activity on the Internet is growing -- not steadily, but exponentially, both in frequency and complexity," said Larry Ponemon, chairman of the Ponemon Institute, an information management group and consultancy. "Criminals are getting smarter and figuring out ways to beat the system." 
The number of successful, and verifiable, worldwide hacker incidents for the month of January is likely to surpass 20,000 -- above the previous record of 16,000 in October, as counted by mi2g, a computer security firm based in London. 
Others also offer dire estimates, although the dollar amounts are difficult to verify or compare because the definitions of loss vary so broadly. Part of the challenge in quantifying the problem is that businesses are often reluctant to report and publicly discuss electronic theft for fear of attracting other cyberattacks or at the very least undermining the confidence of their customers, suppliers and investors -- or inviting the ridicule of their competitors.
In one survey of 500 computer security practitioners conducted last year by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Computer Security Institute, a trade group, 80 percent of those surveyed acknowledged financial losses to computer breaches. The computer professionals took part in the survey on the condition that they and their organizations would not be identified. Of the 223 respondents who quantified the damage, the average loss was $2 million. Those who had sustained losses of proprietary company information said each incident cost an average of $6.5 million, while financial fraud averaged $4.6 million an incident.
One of the best known cases of corporate computer crime involved two accountants at Cisco Systems, who after pleading guilty were each sentenced in late 2001 to 34 months in prison for breaking into parts of the company's computer system they were not authorized to enter and issuing themselves nearly $8 million in company stock.
But it is nearly impossible to identify the companies that have sustained the biggest losses, because of corporate reluctance to discuss what anonymous surveys have found to be a growing problem. Computer security experts who help protect these companies say the attacks are hitting major banks, telecommunications companies and other Fortune 500 companies -- with a great breadth of types of attack.
"If people found out how astoundingly large this problem is, they'd be shocked," said James P. Hurley, an analyst with the Aberdeen Group, a technology consulting firm. Mr. Hurley said one client, which he declined to identify, endured an electronic theft worth $500 million last year.
Other security consultants recently recounted numerous examples of electronic thefts, but, like Mr. Hurley, they omitted company names because of confidentiality clauses in their contracts. Some examples, all provided by consultants who had seen the damage, include these:
*Last summer, someone hacked into the treasury system of an East Coast financial services company, and transferred more than $1 million to what investigators presume to have been personal accounts. The company suspects it was an employee because of the inside knowledge required to gain access to the system. The investigation is continuing, but the employee's identity is still unknown.
*In November 2001, a New York brokerage house noticed an intruder in its network from overseas, but did not know the nature of the intrusion. When a security firm tracked him, they saw that he was removing trading information on euros and was using that data to compete with the firm while trading in markets in the Far East. The estimated damage was in the millions of dollars.
*Last spring, hackers broke into a publicly held bank based in the United States and gained access to the bank accounts of wealthy customers. Millions of dollars were transferred overseas. The bank managed to back out of most of the transfers, but total losses, including a security clean-up, were more than $1 million.
The weak economy is partly behind the rise in cybercrime, said Richard Power, global manager of security intelligence for Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, a business consultancy. "In times of economic hardship, crime always increases," he said. "The more that money flows into cyberspace, the more criminal activity there'll be."
Corporations, meanwhile, are struggling to keep pace. With budgets and personnel stretched thin, companies that added many new technologies to their computer systems during the dot-com build-up now find themselves lacking the resources to secure those systems against break-ins.
Part of the problem is that cybercrime is much harder to detect than crime in the actual world.
"The vast, vast majority of virtual crimes right now never get caught or prosecuted, where you have some chance in the real world," said Dan Farmer, chief technology officer of Elemental Security, a computer security firm in Silicon Valley. "It is extraordinarily hard to prove anything using digital evidence," Mr. Farmer said.
Law enforcement authorities acknowledge the difficulty of catching electronic thieves. "The crime is much easier because you have anonymity," said Tim Caddigan, deputy special agent in charge of the Secret Service's financial crimes division. And often, he said, "It's much more profitable for criminals to use the computer," than to steal through more traditional means.
Adding to the difficulty of catching wired thieves is the fact that the authorities are outnumbered and, in many cases, outsmarted by criminals with better computing skills -- although the F.B.I. and the Secret Service are increasing their ranks of investigators with sophisticated computer skills. The number of investigators in the F.B.I.'s cyber division will roughly double in the coming months, to 700, for example, while Mr. Caddigan of the Secret Service said 200 of the Service's 3,000 agents had completed training and more would follow.
Electronic crime is also difficult to detect because it is so often an inside job. Security experts say the fastest-growing type of cybercrime involves the theft of intellectual property -- the pilfering of a company's plans for major projects, for instance, or marketing schedules and budgets stolen by an employee and sold to a competitor.
John Pescatore, an analyst with Gartner, a technology consulting firm, estimates that in 70 percent of computer systems intrusions that resulted in a loss, an employee was the culprit. In many cases, he said, those employees knew the company was headed for difficult times and possible layoffs, and sold information to competitors "either to make sure they got a good job at another place, or just to give themselves a golden parachute."
In other industries, losses have become so widespread that accounting experts are starting to call for fuller disclosure of cybercrimes by corporate victims, saying that customers and shareholders should know more about the losses and risks.
Mr. Ponemon, the consultant, said companies often conceal the losses in their balance sheets. "It'll be recorded in different accounts that wouldn't have the same level of scrutiny as a loss," he said. "It could be classified as a cost of sale, or a product cost, or in shipping or billing disputes and errors, and so on."
Such cover-ups, do not allow for "a clean picture about how expensive it is to have to deal with fraudulent or criminal activities," Mr. Ponemon said. "This is becoming a very material part of the business model, so it deserves its own disclosure. That way, people can make better business decisions -- whether to demand better controls or better technology or different precautions."
Securities and Exchange Commission rules say companies must disclose information that "a reasonable investor needs to know in order to make an informed decision about an investment." Regulators and securities lawyers interpret that rule using various thresholds, as when a loss equals 2 cents a share or 5 percent of net income.
A securities lawyer cautioned against holding companies to a higher standard for disclosing cybersecurity breaches in all cases, lest they attract copycat attacks. "Sometimes it's more socially responsible not to disclose, because it could multiply a company's losses by 20," he said.
But Jay Ehrenreich, senior manager of the cybercrime prevention and response group at PricewaterhouseCoopers, said requiring broader disclosure of cybercrimes "makes a lot of sense, and is something shareholders should demand."
But he does not expect corporations to easily give in to such demands. "A lot of times companies don't want to know what was taken," Mr. Ehrenreich said. "They just want us to find what the problem was and close the door, because there's a cost to finding out what was actually taken."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jay Ehrenreich, a cybercrime investigator with PricewaterhouseCoopers in New York, says broader disclosure of Internet crime is something shareholders should demand. (Librado Romero/The New York Times) Chart: "Crime Wave"The weak economy, the increasing electronic flow of money and the growing sophistication of cybercriminals have led to a sharp increase in computer break-ins and network attacks. WORLDWIDE SECURITY VIOLATIONS Graph tracks the number of worldwide security violations from 1990-2002. REPORTED DIGITAL ATTACKS IN 2002 United States: 26,792Brazil: 5,568Britain: 4,950Germany: 4,621Italy: 2,652 (Sources: CERT Coordination Center; mi2g, a London-based technology security firm) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYBERCRIME (91%); COMPUTER CRIME (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); INTERNET CRIME (78%); PRISONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SENTENCING (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (70%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (64%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SECURITY; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%)

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



841 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Online dating, a hushed subject but a roaring business, goes very public in a marketing battle.

BYLINE:  By Patricia Winters Lauro 

 BODY:
THE battle in the online dating service business has become as competitive as the contest among looking-for-love singles angling for that final rose from "The Bachelor."
 Market leaders like Match.com, a unit of USA Interactive, and Yahoo Personals, are now turning to well-known creative shops and significantly increasing marketing budgets. Their ads are now showing up in prime time on shows like "The West Wing" and "Joe Millionaire," while promotional efforts have paid off in placements like Match.com's on the six-part series on dating appearing on "Today." 
 As the stigma of online dating eases, the business is booming. Last year, the industry's revenues doubled, to $304 million, according to Marketdata Enterprises, a research firm based in Tampa, Fla. 
More than keeping pace, the services' advertising has also ballooned, to $10 million through September last year, up from $2.4 million in 2001, according to CMR, a unit of Taylor Nelson Sofres based in New York. This year, ad spending is expected to at least triple, based on industry estimates.
The online services contend they are changing the way people date, becoming a perfectly respectable way to meet other singles. While that contention has yet to be verified by social scientists, the statistics that can be mustered in its defense are impressive.
In December, 26 million people visited online dating sites, according to comScore Media Metrix, a unit of comScore Networks. And the online personals category became the largest paid-content category on the Internet in the third quarter of 2002, with $87 million in sales, according to comScore Networks and the Online Publishers Association. 
Even Hallmark Cards has four new cards for Valentine's Day linked to Internet dating.
"That we have this many cards on the subject tells us pretty much that it's universal; it's no longer an obscure thing," said Rachel Bolton, a Hallmark spokeswoman. "In the 70's and 80's, for instance, we had a lot of cards about the singles bar scene."
Overcoming the remaining resistance to hunting for dates through the Internet is a major aim of Match.com's new advertising campaign, which started earlier this month.
"We did a lot of consumer research and found out that while we've done a great job of legitimizing the category, we still hear people say 'I think it makes sense, but it's not for me,' " said Melanie Angermann, vice president of marketing for Match.com, the market leader based in Richardson, Texas. "And we decided that instead of dancing around it, we'd attack it head-on in our new advertising."
The result is a new TV commercial, introduced earlier this month, via Match.com's new ad agency Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group. The ad takes place during a wedding ceremony, during which a guest stuns the assembled by actually responding to the preacher's traditional "Speak now or forever hold your peace." His answer: that he uses Match.com. As everyone stares dumbfounded, a woman jumps up to say she, too, uses Match.com, and even found her boyfriend on it.
The spot is running in major cities on shows like "The Bachelorette," "American Idol" and "Joe Millionaire," as part of a media strategy to buy programs that get talked about among singles, especially women. (Match.com believes if women sign up, men will follow.)
An outdoor campaign and three more TV spots -- all featuring confessions for Match.com in public places -- are planned for later this year. Match.com declined to divulge details of those ads, not surprising in an industry where marketing plans can be as closely guarded as a popular single's little black book. Match.com also will not disclose spending, but industry estimates are that it will double its ad budget this year. Through the first nine months of 2002, it spent $9.4 million on advertising, according to CMR.
Yahoo Personals, which comScore Media Metrix ranks second to Match.com in visitors, said its ads play off Yahoo's reputation for fun and technological innovation. A TV spot by Black Rocket in San Francisco, a unit of Havas, that broke over the summer and is still running shows a man and a woman making eye contact in a bar. The man waves shyly, revealing a huge over-sized hand, only to see the woman wave back with her own huge hand.
"It's tongue-in-cheek," said Katie Mitic, the general manager of Yahoo Personals in Sunnyvale, Calif. "But the idea is how do you find the right person? And a consumer insight is that women like to feel it's part science, part magic, that there's an element of fate. There's literally millions of bachelors out there and you could meet him in a week or a month or in six months."
Earlier this month, Yahoo also announced the addition of streaming voice and video for its online dating service, the first in the industry. The service allows users to tape a brief video for potential dates.
Yahoo also will not discuss ad spending, but Ms. Mitic said consumers would see more of it. Yahoo, which according to CMR spent $3.5 million in advertising last year, is also ratcheting up its "buzz marketing strategy." That means gimmicks like hiring attractive women to walk around with computers strapped to their heads.
"Personals is a priority business for Yahoo," said Ms. Mitic.
Another combatant is udate.com, a company based in London that last month awarded an estimated $10 million to $15 million account to Bartle Bogle Hegarty in New York. Prior to awarding the account, udate did only online advertising. Last month, USA Interactive bought udate.com for $150 million in stock.
In all these campaigns, do not expect the online services to reveal any of their flaws, however. One major drawback, according to Marketdata Enterprises, is that about 30 percent of the people using the services are married. And even among those who are legitimately single, there is a pesky lying problem.
"You can lie about your height, your weight, your age," said John LaRosa, the research director at Marketdata who has just completed a study on dating services. "You may be 55 and sending in a photo of when you were 40. It's caveat emptor -- buyer beware."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a commercial, the preacher at a wedding asks the assembled guests to "speak now," and some reveal that they are Match.com subscribers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE DATING SERVICES (95%); DATING SERVICES (94%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (76%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); PUBLISHING (64%) DATING (SOCIAL); ADVERTISING; TELEVISION; INDUSTRY PROFILES; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (56%); HALLMARK CARDS INC (53%); GOODBY SILVERSTEIN & PARTNERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: USA INTERACTIVE; MATCH.COM; YAHOO.COM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%)

PERSON: LAURO, PATRICIA WINTERS 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



842 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
Music via Television Findsa Foothold

BYLINE:  By LISA NAPOLI 

 BODY:
There is already a money-making music alternative to the CD, and it has nothing to with the Internet.
 At a radio station in Midtown Manhattan that is not a radio station, there are no on-air disc jockeys and no commercials. Earnest-looking audiophiles compile playlists on their computer terminals, headphones sealing in the sounds as they work. The classical department is a few cubicles down from the programmers who compile the rap and hip-hop shows. 
 There are three-dozen or so music formats in all, ranging from conventional genres, like easy listening and smooth jazz, to music rarely heard on commercial radio, like electronica and reggae.
The shows created at the Manhattan studios of the station, called Music Choice, are broadcast over television, not radio. Music Choice is one of two national services that deliver digital music programming to a combined 37 million homes via cable and satellite television. The other national service, DMX Music, is based in Los Angeles.
Music Choice's audio is accompanied by simple graphics, which identify the artist and album. On some systems, purchasing the CD for home delivery is possible by simply using the remote control. 
"Typically we play 15 songs an hour, when radio typically plays 8 to 10," said Damon Williams, director of programming for Music Choice. "You hear music that you wouldn't normally hear."
After years of tinkering, televised audio channels like these seem poised for a certain amount of success. While the recording industry struggles with piracy issues created by the Internet, which they blame for rapidly dwindling sales of the venerable compact disc, there are now more delivery mechanisms than ever for music consumption and sales.
Yet some of these delivery systems have yet to demonstrate business viability. Satellite radio services, for instance, are struggling for subscribers because of the high cost of tuners and monthly fees. And many so-called Webcasters are faltering because of prohibitive royalty structures, the high cost of streaming audio and difficulties in attracting advertisers. 
But digital audio over pay television systems seems to have found a foothold, even if it may be only a niche business. 
The industry has come a long way since 1987, when David Del Beccaro founded Music Choice. At that point, cable television was still strictly an analog technology, and would-be customers had to purchase a special receiver, pay for installation and agree to a monthly subscription fee. 
Back then, he said, "we spent tens of millions to acquire 150,000 customers."
The economics are different today. Since 1998, as digital cable has emerged across the country, the need for a separate audio box has vanished, and the cost for the audio channels has become invisible to consumers because they are bundled into the television service's monthly subscription fees. Music Choice is a partnership of influential cable, music and technology companies that include Comcast, Time Warner Cable, EMI, Sony Music, Warner Music, Microsoft and Motorola. The company has been profitable since 1999, Mr. Del Beccaro said.
DMX Music, whose majority owner is John Malone's Liberty Media, also reports being in the black. Its programs can be heard on airlines and in subscribing commercial businesses, as well as in the home. 
Neither Music Choice nor DMX pays for Nielsen ratings, so there is no good gauge of their audience sizes. But one service or the other is part of the programming available in the more than 38 million households that subscribe to digital cable television or satellite television -- and it could be in 85 million homes if all cable customers chose to update their service to digital cable. 
The services pay royalties based on their revenue. That gives them a distinct advantage over most Webcasters, which generally must pay royalties for each song heard by a listener. 
The programmers do not disclose their revenue or the royalties, but it is unlikely that the payments from any of these services make much of a dent in the estimated $700 million that the recording industry said it lost to Internet piracy last year alone.
Executives from Music Choice and DMX say the music industry has been too slow to embrace new technologies. "Their fundamental revenue stream is still, and will be for a very long time, the CD -- that's the business they're in," Mr. Del Beccaro said.
Planning for the future has never been a strong suit of the music industry, said Rick Gillette, vice president of music entertainment for DMX. 
Meanwhile, conventional radio broadcasting is still a powerful medium for the music industry. Listening is just as strong as ever, with 95 percent of the American population tuning in each week, said Bill Rose, an executive with Arbitron, which measures radio audiences. 
What is different, Mr. Rose said, is that in a time-starved world, people are using several media at once. Children are already consuming media differently from adults, he said, and take for granted the alternatives that their elders use with wonder. 
Those alternatives also provide an outlet for music unlikely to be played on commercial radio, whose ownership has become homogenized in the hands of just a few companies. Commercial radio's playlists are focused largely on just five formats: country, pop, solid gold, classic rock and news. 
In December, the artist Moby wrote in his online journal after hearing the Norwegian duo Royskopp on a cable music program: "It seems to be the only place to hear good dance and electronic music on the radio in the states. See, here in the states we have, well, a rather restricted diet when it comes to commercial radio." 
That diet needs to become less restricted if the music industry is to revive itself, Mr. Gillette said. Digital audio services like DMX, he said, could be powerful promotional tools for recording companies, even if the royalty revenues were minimal.
He said he was encouraged that Sony Music had recently reached outside the music industry to find its new president: Andrew Lack, who had been president of NBC.
"New problems need new answers and a whole new way of looking at business," Mr. Gillette said. "Anything you've always done is the first thing you should stop doing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Program coordinators at Music Choice in Midtown Manhattan work on compiling customer playlists, which typically consist of about 15 selections an hour.; Damon Williams, director of programming for Music Choice, with monitors showing three options, rock, pop and opera, among about three dozen for television listeners. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (88%); INTERNET AUDIO (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); STREAMING MEDIA (78%); RAP MUSIC (78%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (78%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (74%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (74%); SATELLITE RADIO (73%); ROYALTIES (72%) MUSIC; TELEVISION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; ROYALTIES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER CABLE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MUSIC CHOICE (CO); DMX MUSIC (CO) 

TICKER: TWC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (50%)

PERSON: NAPOLI, LISA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



843 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Tina Brown, Turning Page, Heads to TV 

BYLINE:  By JIM RUTENBERG 

 BODY:
Tina Brown, television talk-show host in training?
 One year after the collapse of Talk magazine, Ms. Brown is setting off into new territory with a series of prime-time specials on the financial news network CNBC. 
 It is a modest beginning in television. But the CNBC specials are another step along the way in Ms. Brown's slow public re-emergence. Last year, she began a column about her life in New York for The Times of London, and Salon.com, but she has otherwise kept a relatively low profile since the demise of Talk. 
Ms. Brown said on Friday that she would produce four one-hour programs this year in which she would lead discussions with small groups of guests of her choosing.
She will make her CNBC debut on March 20, a few days before the Academy Awards. She said that she had not yet chosen her guests but that the discussion would certainly focus on the Oscar nominees and the general state of the film industry. The series will be called "Topic A with Tina Brown." Ms. Brown said the other three specials would explore a range of topics, from culture to business and politics.
In the days after Talk closed there were rumors that Ms. Brown would become a television host on CNN, working for her friend and fellow Manhattan party fixture, Walter Isaacson, the network's (departing) chairman. The New York Post reported last February that she was seeking to do a contemplative talk show a la "The Charlie Rose Show" on PBS, a description, it seems, that could roughly apply to the CNBC specials.
Ms. Brown's lawyer, Robert B. Barnett, who negotiated her deal with CNBC, said she "has had an enormous number of offers from broadcast and cable television, radio and print outlets," but he declined to name her suitors. He also declined to divulge the terms of her contract.
Ms. Brown said she had settled on CNBC because its audience of upscale viewers was in line with the people she had addressed not only at Talk but also as the editor of The New Yorker, and Vanity Fair before that.
She said CNBC's offer was also appealing because its president, Pamela Thomas-Graham, was willing to let her try her hand at television in just a handful of appearances.
"The great thing about it is that it's a limited situation," she said. "This is a really nice way to have a good time evolving an interest in television and deciding whether I feel comfortable doing it -- see if it is something that is fun to do."
The network, owned by General Electric, has another tempting feature that could relieve the pressure on an untested television talent like Ms. Brown: a relatively small audience. 
Its average prime-time audience of about 250,000 people in 2002 was much smaller than those of its rivals at Fox News Channel, CNN and even the third-place MSNBC.
Its audience is in fact 36 percent smaller than it was in 2001, and CNBC, which was the No. 1 source for information on cable during the Internet boom, has struggled to regain its footing in the gloomy economic climate.
Its executives have said they have been able to maintain their advertising revenue, however, by convincing marketers -- many of them in the financial industry seeking to reach wealthy viewers -- that CNBC has not lost its core business audience. Rather, they say, they have lost average Americans who were lured to the stock market in the late 1990's and have since either left or been wiped out by it.
Ms. Thomas-Graham said Ms. Brown's specials would be in keeping with CNBC's strategy of diverting its programming schedule away from heavy stock market coverage while appealing to a high-income audience. It has been trying new sorts of programs, like the recent documentary on the troubles of AOL Time Warner.
She added that she expected Ms. Brown to choose her guests from an A-list of friends.
"This format is going to be terrific for CNBC, a continuation of programming that's branded toward people who are smart, curious and interested in a more sophisticated take on the issues," she said.
Ms. Graham and Ms. Brown said they would consider whether to increase the frequency of the program after the four had been produced.
Even with her column and her occasional television program, Ms. Brown would seem to have plenty of time on her hands. But, she said, she is not seeking to take on too much more than this right now.
"I'm really enjoying my life in a slightly lower gear now," she said. "For 22 years I've been at the other extreme, racing from one magazine to the next. This is a good mix of things, which is not necessarily 24/ 7."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tina Brown plans a modest entry into television, with four prime-time specials set to run on CNBC. (Getty Images)(pg. C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (68%) TELEVISION; MAGAZINES 

COMPANY: SALON MEDIA GROUP INC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CNBC (CABLE NETWORK); TALK (MAGAZINE) 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: CHARLIE ROSE (58%) RUTENBERG, JIM; BROWN, TINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



844 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Patents; 
The Viagra counterpart for women is on its way, and it addresses a clinical condition new to the popular lexicon.

BYLINE:  By Sabra Chartrand 

 BODY:
VIAGRA, the drug that used professional athletes and a retired senator to become a household word, may soon have a counterpart for women. A pharmaceutical company has patented a topical cream as a treatment for a condition it calls female sexual arousal disorder.
 If sexual dysfunction among women does not yet have a universal name, it is because the phenomenon has only recently caught the attention of the medical establishment. The elimination of taboos on male impotence, and the economic success of Viagra, have helped with that. Now most pharmaceutical companies see a huge potential market for drugs for women, and are racing to develop them. In 1999, The Journal of the American Medical Association reported that 43 percent of women between 18 and 54 had experienced some sort of sexual dysfunction. 
 That number includes women with known physical ailments that can affect sexual function, like heart disease or hormone imbalances. In fact, part of the problem for researchers is reaching a definition of female sexual dysfunction -- but they are eager to do so because some anticipate a $6-billion-a-year market. Still, it may be several years before treatments for women appear on drugstore shelves.
A lot of the research starts with remedies that have worked for men. That is the case in the patent awarded to NexMed Inc., a pharmaceutical and medical technology company in Robbinsville, N.J. It won a patent last fall for a cream based on a drug already used in pellets and shots to treat erectile dysfunction.
Dr. James L. Yeager, the NexMed senior vice president for scientific affairs, said Food and Drug Administration approval of the cream was "at least three years away."
As with men, the companies are trying to treat a breakdown in the body's physical reaction to sexual stimulation. The NexMed patent points out that men and women typically experience four sexual stages that include "desire, excitement, orgasm and resolution." The cream for women is designed to help those whose bodies do not trigger an increase in blood flow to sexual organs that is necessary for the excitement stage.
In its patent, the inventors define female sexual arousal disorder as the persistent or recurrent inability to attain, or to maintain, sufficient sexual excitement, which causes personal distress.
"Arousal disorder is definitely something you see in postmenopausal women due to lack of hormones," Dr. Yeager explained. "But it's also present in premenopausal women. The typical woman in our study was premenopausal, married, with one to two children, between 35 and 40 years old."
"These women say they can have intercourse, but nothing happens, they don't get aroused," he continued. "We don't know why. We think it has something to do with the action of vasodilation, or blood vessel dilation, gone awry. It's not psychological."
The patented cream uses the same active ingredient in the shots and pellets for men, a chemical compound called prostaglandin. The patent describes the compound as "derivatives of certain unsaturated fatty acids." Prostaglandin is found in the body, where it stimulates smooth muscles in the intestines and respiratory system, as well as in the reproductive system. One compound, called prostaglandin E.sub.1, has been used to treat heart disease, strokes, ulcers and organ rejection, the patent says, and it notes that prostaglandin has also been used specifically for women before -- for inducing labor, controlling postpartum bleeding, even for terminating pregnancy.
Starting with an already available drug has meant "the safety of this is well-defined and understood," Dr. Yeager said. So NexMed just needed to know whether the same drug could increase blood flow to women's sexual organs, too.
"In female anatomy, it dilates the blood vessels that feed the labia," Dr. Yeager said, "and these are highly proliferated with secretory cells, and you need increased blood flow for increased secretion and increased engorgement."
"The idea was," he added, "would the prostaglandins, if properly delivered, increase vasodilation so you go through the cascade of events that lead to excitement and orgasm?"
The newly patented formula contains prostaglandin E.sub.1, as well as a thickener, an acid buffer to balance pH and prevent skin irritation, and an agent to enhance absorption into the skin. It can be mixed into a cream, lotion or gel.
"We want to keep the dose low for safety, but we want rapid penetration into the tissue, because if you want to apply it, you don't want to wait forever for it to work," Dr. Yeager said. He said women should need wait only five or 10 minutes for a dab of the cream to take effect.
"Of course, they'll need to engage in some sexual activity," he added. 
Dr. Yeager and two colleagues, Nadir Buyuktimkin and Servet Buyuktimkin, received Patent 6,486,207. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); PATENTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); MENOPAUSE (89%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); MEN'S HEALTH (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); HEART DISEASE (72%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (71%); APPROVALS (64%); US FDA APPROVALS (52%) SEX; INVENTIONS AND PATENTS; WOMEN; PROSTAGLANDIN (HORMONE); HORMONES 

COMPANY: APRICUS BIOSCIENCES INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%) NEXMED INC 

TICKER: APRI (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (82%)

PERSON: CHARTRAND, SABRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



845 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
Editors and Lobbyists WageHigh-Tech War Over Letters

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE 

 BODY:
Newspapers and political organizations are engaged in technological one-upmanship over "AstroTurf" -- letters to the editor that look like authentic grass-roots responses from readers but are not.
 Groups like the Republican National Committee and Planned Parenthood are using Web sites and e-mail lists to help disseminate form letters to publications across the country. With a few keystrokes and mouse clicks, individuals can send preprogrammed letters under their own names to editors. Some Web sites even preselect local publications, depending on the person's ZIP code and address. 
 Jim Dyke, a spokesman for the Republican National Committee, said the committee is proud of its outreach efforts. "You want to make it easy for them to participate," he said. "That is a good thing."
Lisa Boyce, a spokeswoman for Planned Parenthood of Wisconsin, said, "If an editor receives 10 letters that may be the same, they at least know there are 10 people that are concerned about the issue and would take the time to send a letter." 
The people who edit the letters pages disagree, generally believing that letters should be the work of those who sign them. Armed with Internet search engines and e-mail lists of their own, they are mapping Web sites and alerting each other about the form letters appearing in their mailboxes. 
"We type phrases into Google all the time," said Susan Clotfelter, the letters editor at The Denver Post. "We hate to be fooled." The Post published at least two form letters last year: one in support of the budget proposal of President Bush and one in support of the terrorism stance of Senator Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota.
Organized letter-writing campaigns have been around for decades. But the Internet has sped up both their scope and pace. At any time, editors are being bombarded by at least two or three campaigns covering any range of topics, among them immigration, school prayer and politics in general. The large campaigns are easier to spot because many identical letters appear at once. It is the isolated letter that editors have to keep an eye out for.
The editors issue alerts and queries on a 600-member e-mail list run by the National Conference of Editorial Writers. Last week, for example, an editor from Nebraska posted a questionable letter about the Pledge of Allegiance and the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Within minutes, editors from Wisconsin, Tennessee, Illinois and Nebraska responded, saying they had received the same letter.
"It's instant communication among us," said Lynnell Burkett, the editorial page editor of The San Antonio Express-News. "It's extremely helpful, every day, several times a day."
Despite these efforts, some form letters still sneak into print. One letter praising President Bush, distributed by the Republican National Committee at the www.gopteamleader.com site, has appeared in more than 20 papers since Jan. 8, including The Boston Globe, The Cincinnati Post, The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, The Press-Democrat of Santa Rosa, Calif., and The Star Press of Muncie, Ind. The letter begins, "When it comes to the economy, President Bush is demonstrating genuine leadership."
Several editors said the letter had slipped through partially because it seemed specifically tailored for letters pages. "It was timely," said J. R. Hill, an editorial writer for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram. "It was short. We didn't need to do a lot of heavy editing. It stuck to basically one point."
"We were burned," she said.
Editors say some readers simply do not understand the ethical issues of sending a letter written by someone else. "They had no idea that they were bending any sort of rules whatsoever or that they were trying to put one over on us," Ms. Clotfelter said. "I e-mailed back and forth with one woman who was distressed that we wouldn't print her letter because it was really how she felt."
Others defend their use of form letters. "I've seen the same thing from the other side," said Trevor D. Carlson, who signed one of the pro-Bush form letters to The Press Democrat.
Editors say the groups are becoming more sophisticated and the letters harder to spot. Last week, The Wisconsin State Journal of Madison received a number of letters in support of abortion rights that referred to the 30th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, the Supreme Court decision recognizing a constitutional right to abortion.
The editors were suspicious. But no two letters were exactly alike. A few technical errors in some of the later e-mails, however, showed that they had come from www.ppwi.org, operated by Planned Parenthood of Wisconsin.
At its Web site, users were encouraged to mix and match paragraphs from about 10 form letters. They could send their newly created letters to any of a number of publications in Wisconsin.
The complexity and the creativity of the site surprised Tim Kelley, the paper's editorial page editor. "Maybe you can call them genuine letters because they are encouraged to cut-and-paste," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 28, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about efforts by newspaper editors to use Internet technology to weed out form letters from political organizations misstated the surname of an editorial writer for The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, who discussed a form letter from the Republican National Committee that appealed to many papers. She is J. R. Labbe, not Hill.

GRAPHIC: Photo: One letter written by the Republican National Committee has appeared this month in more than 20 papers, including these Web versions, under a different name each time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (91%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WRITERS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ETHICS (75%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); SEARCH ENGINES (66%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (50%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); TERRORISM (50%); RELIGION (50%); CHURCH & STATE (50%); BUDGETS (50%) NEWSPAPERS; ETHICS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LETTERS; MAGAZINES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ELECTRONIC MAIL 

COMPANY: DENVER POST CORP (59%); GOOGLE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (59%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (59%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%); TOM DASCHLE (50%) LEE, JENNIFER 8 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



846 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Arizona Awakens to Drought as Lakes Shrink and Harm Spreads 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: GLENDALE, Ariz., Jan 24 

 BODY:
The weather was mostly sunny and pleasant across much of Arizona today, just as it has been for the better part of eight years. That is not such a good thing.
 A persistent drought in rural Arizona and large parts of most other Western states is bearing down on Arizona's largest population centers, Phoenix and Tucson. Cities where green golf courses, swimming pools and shopping mall fountains have long been taken for granted are worrying for the first time that a shortage of water may end the days of unbridled growth. They are facing hard decisions about water use as the state confronts the drought's long-term effects on farms and forests, including dwindling crops, a growing threat of devastating wildfires and a worrisome infestation of tree-killing beetles. 
 This month, Salt River Project, the company whose dams and reservoirs provide the Phoenix metropolitan area about 75 percent of its water, announced that it was cutting deliveries by a third. This was the first time since 1951 that Salt River, a 100-year-old company, had rationed water. Several reservoirs have fallen so low that Indian ruins, some estimated to be 800 years old, have been exposed for only the third time in a century. Weather forecasters do not expect them to be submerged soon.
In Tucson, where the main water source is the Colorado River, city officials are storing river water in wells for drier times. Smaller cities are also doing so.
Farmers and ranchers throughout the West have long grappled with cyclical water supplies. In some states, drought has led to fights over water rights and financial losses to farmers and ranchers. Summer wildfires have been made more voracious by a steady buildup of dead trees and underbrush. This week, the Senate approved $3.2 billion to help farmers and ranchers offset drought losses.
In Arizona, the drought has done the most damage in sparsely populated areas that have no access to the Salt River Project reservoirs or to water from the Colorado River, which is shared by seven states and Mexico. These outlying areas of forests, farms and ranches rely on surface water and groundwater, which are slowly drying up. For several years, farmers have planted less and ranchers have sold livestock to avoid rising feed costs and having to watch animals die of dehydration.
"The high country has been devastated by a lack of water," said Joe Sigg, chief state lobbyist for the Arizona Farm Bureau Federation. "In other parts of the state, farmers have less water to use. This year we're going to see more suffering. The longer this goes on, the more serious it's going to get."
Now, Arizona's major cities, where 80 percent of state residents live, are also feeling the pinch, raising fears that another dry year could worsen an economic downturn and bring mandatory water restrictions, which other Western cities have already imposed. Denver, for example, bans outdoor watering, artificial waterfalls and fountains. In Santa Fe, N.M., vehicles may be washed only once a month, and swimming pools must be covered when not in use to limit evaporation.
Arizona, one of the fastest growing states, has been slow to limit water use, with Flagstaff the only city to impose restrictions. Even with the Salt River Project cut, Phoenix has only a voluntary program, asking residents to reduce use by 5 percent. Last year was a tie for Phoenix's driest year on record, with just 2.8 inches of rain.
"People only now are beginning to make the connection, that 'the drought actually affects me,' " Rob Melnick, director of the Morrison Institute for Public Policy at Arizona State University, said of Phoenix and Tucson residents. He said developers were growing concerned about water supplies for new subdivisions, and economic development officials were worried that the drought might scare away businesses.
"No one is pulling the panic button yet," Mr. Melnick said, "but we're hearing discussions about water now in circles where water wasn't discussed a year ago."
Until this year, Phoenix and Tucson were largely spared water concerns. They had an ample supply from the Colorado River and the Salt River Project, which stores water in six reservoirs on the Salt and Verde Rivers.
But water experts say lower-than-normal snow packs have reduced water levels in the Colorado, and none of the Salt River Project reservoirs are full. The largest, Theodore Roosevelt Lake, stood at 13 percent of capacity this week, one of its lowest levels. Another, Horseshoe Reservoir, was dry. Reservoirs on the two river systems combined were at 27 percent of capacity.
"It's conceivable that they could get even lower," said Charles E. Ester, manager of water resource operations for Salt River Project. "And it's not inconceivable that we could run out of reservoir water."
Even at this early stage, signs of drought are visible around Phoenix. Frank Martin, a farmer who raises vegetables in a 20-acre field here, a suburb west of Phoenix, said he had changed his planting schedule to favor crops that use less water, like lettuce, over thirstier crops, like corn. He is also bracing for his own economic downturn.
"This was a pretty drastic measure," Mr. Martin said of the Salt River Project cut, which he predicted would reduce his annual revenue by a third. "I'm not so much concerned about this year. But next year, man, if things progress the way they are, it'll make a bunch of difference."
While Phoenix and Tucson are beginning to confront the drought, the forested regions of Arizona are facing a new problem, one that could help produce a summer wildfire season worse than last year's, when a record number of square miles burned in the state.
Trillions of bark beetles are lying dormant in the trees of the state's 3.3 million acres of ponderosa pine and pinon juniper forests. The drought has left many of the trees dehydrated, without enough sap to protect them from the beetles.
Tom DeGomez, director of the University of Arizona Extension Forest Health Program, said the beetles destroyed more than 600,000 acres of pines last year, the worst outbreak ever, and could make the wildfire devastation "10 times worse" this year by creating more fuel. The beetle feeding season begins in April, and even without the beetles, the National Interagency Fire Center is predicting an "above normal" fire season.
Gov. Janet Napolitano, a Democrat who took office this month, said she was concerned that cities were not doing enough to conserve water.
"I'm not satisfied," Governor Napolitano said in an interview, adding that in a meeting on Thursday she told Arizona mayors to make water a top priority. The governor also said she had instructed state water officials to assess supplies and plans for conservation.
"This is a long-term problem," Ms. Napolitano said, "and it's going to occupy a fairly large place on our plate."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Roosevelt Lake, the largest of six reservoirs supplying water to Phoenix, is only 13 percent full. The land in the foreground is normally under water.; Frank Martin, who farms in Glendale, a Phoenix suburb, switched to crops that use less water. (Photographs by Jeff Topping for The New York Times) Chart/Map: "Running Dry"Phoenix and its near neighbors get about 75 percent of their water from reservoirs on the Verde and Salt Rivers, but water levels are low, leaving the city concerned about supply. Circle size represents the number of gallons. RESERVOIRSPercent full as of Friday. Horseshoe Dam: 0% fullBartlett Dam: 35%Stewart Mt. Dam: 93%Mormon Flat Dam: 94%Mormon Flat Dam: 88%Theodore Roosevelt Lake: 13% full (Source: Salt River Project) Map of Arizona highlighting the Verde and Salt River watersheds. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (91%); RIVERS (90%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); DROUGHT (90%); WATER RIGHTS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (88%); WEATHER (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); CITIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (75%); ANIMALS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); LOBBYING (72%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); GOLF (71%); RETAILERS (71%); WATER QUALITY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); LIVESTOCK FEED (60%) WATER; DROUGHT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RESERVOIRS 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (94%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (94%) ARIZONA, USA (98%); WEST USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (79%) ARIZONA; WESTERN STATES (US); TUCSON (ARIZ); PHOENIX (ARIZ); COLORADO RIVER; ROOSEVELT LAKE (ARIZ)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



847 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: AFGHANISTAN; 
U.S. Expands Afghan Aid For Maternal and Child Health

BYLINE:  By JUDITH MILLER 

 BODY:
The Bush administration will spend $5 million this year to rebuild and expand the largest women's hospital in Kabul and to create four satellite teaching clinics for maternal and child health in other parts of Afghanistan, officials said yesterday.
 Officials said the Department of Health and Human Services and the Pentagon were joining forces to improve Kabul's Rabia Balkhi Women's Hospital and to open the clinics. 
 The commitment is the administration's latest effort to address the health needs of Afghanistan's 25 million people, and particularly Afghan women and children, who international health surveys show have among the world's worst health and greatest needs. 
The additional money for women's health is the result of a visit that Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, made to Kabul last October. "You cannot see suffering on that scale without concluding we need to do everything possible to help the Afghan people rebuild their public health infrastructure," he said in an interview.
After his trip, Mr. Thompson worked with Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell to promote a special women's health initiative, officials said.
Since October 2001, the Bush administration has committed $840 million in aid to help rebuild Afghanistan, following the country's 23 years of war, civil strife and Taliban rule. American officials have come to realize that stabilizing Afghanistan is impossible without addressing the vast development needs of the country, one of the world's poorest.
Afghan women, surveys show, are experiencing what health officials call "catastrophic" death rates associated with pregnancy and childbirth. A survey released last December by the Centers for Disease Control and Unicef found that Afghanistan had one of the world's highest maternal mortality rates -- 1,600 per 100,000 births. In the United States, the rate is 12 per 100,000. 
At meetings in Washington last December, Ferozudeen Feroz, Afghanistan's deputy public health minister, said that 70 percent of Afghanistan's primary health care clinics could not provide even basic maternal and child services, and that 90 percent of hospitals lacked equipment to perform Caesarean sections. More than 25 percent of children die before their fifth birthday, and 40 percent of child deaths are due to such preventable causes as diarrhea and respiratory infections.
"The modernized hospital and these teaching clinics will prepare a new generation of doctors, nurses and midwives to perform critical birth and child-care procedures, allowing them to go throughout the country helping mothers and children," Mr. Thompson said.
Officials said the reconstruction of the Kabul women's hospital would be completed this year. Rabia Balkhi hospital admits nearly 36,000 patients each year and delivers about 40 babies a day.
The World Bank and other United Nations agencies estimate that it will cost roughly $15 billion over the next 10 years to rebuild Afghanistan. The United States, which pledged $297 million at a conference on the reconstruction of the country in Tokyo last January, has already met its first annual aid commitment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); WOMEN (78%); TALIBAN (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (72%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (72%); TRENDS (70%); CHILD CARE (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); MIDWIVES (68%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (66%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TERRORISM (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FOREIGN AID; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; WOMEN; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HOSPITALS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: TOMMY THOMPSON (57%) MILLER, JUDITH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%) AFGHANISTAN; KABUL (AFGHANISTAN)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



848 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Granada Journal; 
Dreaming of Barges, in the Conquistadors' Wake

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: GRANADA, Nicaragua 

 BODY:
Signs of centuries of tradition abound in this city, from horse-drawn carriages and cobblestone streets to quaint pastel-hued homes built around vine-draped courtyards. As one of Spain's first New World outposts, this was a bustling hub of Central America, where life and commerce thrived on the shores of Lake Nicaragua.
 If Gabriel Pasos has his way, it will reclaim that role. 
 Mr. Pasos is convinced that Granada's future is reached by canal, and he has proposed building one that would take barges, yachts and sailboats along the lake, down the San Juan River and to the Caribbean. 
Some might think he was beaten to the punch a century ago by the Panama Canal. But what Mr. Pasos calls his EcoCanal would revive a natural waterway the Spanish Empire pioneered 300 years earlier.
"This is an old city with a future, one created by Spain because it had the link to the Caribbean," said Mr. Pasos, whose words tumble out as quickly as his ideas. "This is a commercial project, not a white elephant. We are recovering the navigational history of this city. This would revitalize the city and make it more connected to the global market."
Granada has always embraced its shores, which look out on the hemisphere's second-largest lake. The smaller lake on which Managua lies is polluted and forsaken. But here dozens of swimmers bob in the water or boat out to one of the Isletas of Granada, about 360 islands created by lava spit from a nearby volcano. It has also embraced its culture, with dancers and musicians performing on Friday nights in the town square.
But like generations of fortune-seekers drawn to the tropics, many people here grew up with bolder dreams of again mastering nature and geography with a canal. "It was once said three things could save Nicaragua: a canal, quinine and mosquito nets," Mr. Pasos said. "But a canal is first. Where there is a canal, there is wealth."
Although several people, including Ulysses S. Grant, considered Nicaragua for an isthmian crossing, Mr. Pasos has something different in mind. His project aims to provide a route for Nicaraguan businesses to ship their imports and exports directly, rather than first trucking them to and from ports in Costa Rica or Honduras.
Nicaragua's urban centers are on the Pacific coast. But 80 percent of the country's trading partners are on the eastern seaboard in the United States or in Europe.
Moving Nicaragua's yearly coffee harvest to the closest port, for example, costs about $5 million, not counting trucks or goods lost to hijackers or bandits, Mr. Pasos said. A canal could reduce that cost.
The Spanish had a similar idea when they arrived, in 1524. They followed the route 125 miles along the San Juan River and then 95 miles along Lake Nicaragua. The spoils of empire passed through here and the town prospered. Unfortunately, so did English and French pirates, who looted the city three times. Earthquakes in colonial days also restricted navigation. 
The last fortune was made in the mid-19th century, when Cornelius Vanderbilt ferried tens of thousands of gold miners from the East Coast to California via Nicaragua, cutting hundreds of miles off previous routes and earning him $1 million a year. Soon, the American military adventurer William Walker arrived, taking over the city and then burning it to the ground as he retreated.
The city was rebuilt to resemble its earlier glory, but construction of the Panama Canal shrank its commerce.
When President Jose Santos Zelaya explored the possibility of building a canal to rival Panama's with European partners in 1909, the United States invaded. The marines stayed until a more compliant Nicaraguan government was installed.
Mr. Pasos says that his proposals are modest. Tim Coone, the EcoCanal's technical director, said it would involve dredging the river to a uniform 6.5 feet deep and building three locks to bypass rapids. The $50 million project would be privately financed, and Mr. Pasos believes the project can be sold to investors.
Mr. Coone said that four barges a day would be enough to carry all of Nicaragua's domestic commerce, and that the cost of shipping a container to New York would be cut in half, to about $1,000. Combined with the country's low manufacturing wages, it could increase local production.
Mr. Pasos is a businessman whose family owns a paper factory and the stately Hotel Alhambra by Granada's central square. His ancestors came to Granada in the 19th century seeking their fortune, and his grandfather bought waterfront property.
"He thought the land was going to be worth a fortune because of hotels and docks," Mr. Pasos said. Eventually he sold it.
Mr. Pasos and his partners have a five-year concession from the government to explore their route. The idea has been hailed not only by local businessmen and policy analysts, it has also attracted interest from international development groups. While it may turn out to be a pipe dream, some political and economic analysts say that it could work.
However, Costa Rican officials worry that it could harm the San Juan River, which forms a natural border between the two countries. 
Mr. Pasos said that the lake could easily accommodate the barge traffic, covering most of the route, and that the dredging of the river would be minimal. He said it was in his interest to minimize environmental damage since his plans also called for attracting yachts and recreational boaters.
The idea of creating a canal persists in the Pasos family's lore, he said, after one relative tried in the 1870's to negotiate a canal treaty with the Americans. "Since I was a child, this was always talked about," he said. "This is in my blood."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 3, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article last Monday about Granada, Nicaragua, one of Spain's first New World outposts, which is pinning its economic revitalization hopes on a new canal, misstated the ranking of the adjoining body of water, Lake Nicaragua. It is the largest lake in Central America, not the second-largest in the hemisphere.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gabriel Pasos believes a waterway to the Caribbean could again make Granada, Nicaragua, the bustling hub it was in the days of the Spanish Empire. The city has many reminders of those heady days. (Mario Lopez for The New York Times) Map of Nicaragua highlighting the proposed barge route: A proposed EcoCanal would give Granada access to the Caribbean.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); LAKES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); MAMMALS (78%); CITIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); TRENDS (70%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); COFFEE (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); DANCERS (64%); HIJACKING (64%); COFFEE FARMING (63%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (63%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CANALS 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID; PASOS, GABRIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NICARAGUA (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); SPAIN (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (88%); EUROPE (79%); PANAMA (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONDURAS (79%) NICARAGUA; GRANADA (NICARAGUA); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



849 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Russians, Still Rich but Now 'Respectable,' Are Back in Davos 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
The Russians are coming, but quietly. And that is just how some of them seem to want it to be.
 A decade ago, before the financial crisis of 1998 ended the stampede of Western investors looking for a slice of post-Soviet riches, Russian executives attending the annual World Economic Forum in this Alpine resort carved out quite a reputation. They were flashy high-rollers and hard-partiers, whose tentacles spread to the heights of political and economic power. 
 These days, said Anatoly Karachinsky, a Russian software executive, "my American friends say they look at Russia as a normal country and that's fine; we are integrated into the world economy."
Mikhail Khodorkovsky, the 39-year-old chief executive of Yukos, Russia's second-biggest oil producer, said that a decade ago, Davos's night spots were "all something new" for Russians. 
"These days, Moscow is one of the liveliest cities in Europe, and we are all 10 years older now," said Mr. Khodorkovsky, who is possibly Russia's richest man. "So anybody who wants to go out and party and have a good time can do so in Moscow. And they come here for other reasons."
Those reasons, mainly, are to talk and schmooze and convince the world that after defaulting on its debt in 1998 and bamboozling Western investors, Russia now has a youthful economic elite that has changed.
But the gates are not wide open to this by-invitation event. In 1996, the number of Russian participants here reached a high of 76. After the crash of 1998, it fell to just half that. Since then, it has been climbing back and reached 52 this year -- dwarfed by an overwhelming American and Western European presence among the 2,000-plus participants. 
"If we opened the door, we would have about 100 Russian business participants," Klaus Schwab, the forum's founder, said in an interview. "But we are very restrictive, and we try to invite only those who have a good record in terms of corporate governance and so on."
Indeed, the Russian participants -- both from politics and business -- were met this year with a broadside from Amnesty International. "There are human rights issues that business can't ignore -- arbitrary detention, appalling prison conditions, unlawful killings, disappearances, gross violations in Chechnya and pervasive corruption everywhere," said Irene Khan, Amnesty's leader.
"We are not asking companies to divest from Russia, or disinvest, but to influence human rights through their own policies and practices," she said.
Naturally, the barons of Russian capitalism are not enthusiastic about such reminders of a not-too-distant past when so-called oligarchs used political influence -- and by Western standards, highly dubious maneuvers -- to wrest control of vast slabs of Russia's previously state-owned assets. Mr. Khodorkovsky, for instance, was reported to have won control of the multibillion-dollar Yukos company for a relatively modest $159 million loan to the state. In 1999, he succeeded in muscling Kenneth Dart, an American billionaire, out of big stakes in Yukos subsidiaries by shifting assets to offshore subsidiaries.
In several conversations, Russian executives bridled at any hint that the history of the post-Soviet 1990's has somehow set them apart from the mainstream of global business. Indeed, they argued, recent developments in the United States have given them ammunition for a counterattack. With the accounting scandals at Enron and elsewhere, supposed paragons of American corporate virtue have fallen from the moral high ground. 
"There is much less suspicion than there used to be," Aleksandr E. Lebedev, a 43-year-old banker, said of the attitude toward Russian business. "It turned out that some Western countries were not at all better." 
And these days, said Ruben Varanian, 34, a prominent financier, Russians engaged in business "want to be respectable."
That does not mean that they do not party anymore. On Saturday, Mr. Khodorkovsky had a party for fellow industrialists at one of Davos's upscale hotels.
A formal $70-per-head dinner here to discuss Europe's ties with Russia was oversubscribed in what the Russians saw as a sign of growing interest.
Moreover, Russian business seems more assertive in part because it has a story to tell of economic reform, partly repaid debt and growth far outpacing that of other European countries or the United States. Big companies are looking beyond Russian borders to expand.
Furthermore, having made millions, some executives have apparently concluded that the best way to hang on to their wealth is to draw up rules of good behavior.
Still, worries remain. "Has Russia dealt with corruption?" Mr. Khodorkovsky said. "No it hasn't. Is it a problem? Yes, it's a problem.But can it be said that Russia is the most corrupt country in the world? Not at all. There are many countries in Europe that are a lot more corrupt than Russia." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (84%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); DIVESTITURES (67%); FALSE IMPRISONMENT (64%); TRENDS (64%); ETHICS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (64%); CORRUPTION (60%) FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ETHICS; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM 

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%)

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN; SCHWAB, KLAUS 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



850 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2032 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES; 
Powell on Iraq: 'We Reserve Our Sovereign Right to Take Military Action'

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a speech today by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, as transcribed by the Federal Document Clearing House, a private transcription service: 
 I've been here for just over a day, long enough to speak and meet with a number of you; long enough to hear directly and from others much of what has been said about the United States over the last two or three days; about whether America can be trusted to use its enormous political, economic and, above all, military power wisely and fairly. 
 I believe -- no, I know, with all of my heart -- that the United States can. I believe no less strongly that the United States has earned the trust of men, women and children around the world. Let's just go to Afghanistan. Ten thousand American soldiers are in that country helping to create conditions of security. A new government, a new representative government, is in place. We see new roads, new hospitals, new schools, where girls can attend and gain the skills they will need to lead productive, meaningful lives. . . . 
The American troops who are there went there in peace, working alongside now thousands of troops from more than a dozen countries, and they're all working together to help train Afghan police and military forces that will take their place, and as soon as our troops are needed no longer, they will depart.
Afghanistan's leaders and Afghanistan's people know that they can trust America to do just this, to do the right thing. The people of Bosnia, the people of Kosovo, of Macedonia, they too know that they can trust us to do our jobs and then leave. . . .
The same holds true for the people of Kuwait. Twelve years ago, we helped liberate their country, and then we left. We did not seek any special benefits for ourselves. That is not the American way. . . .
More than half a century ago, the United States helped to rescue Europe from the tyranny of fascism that had led to World War II. We stayed to help Europe regain its vitality. We supported and continue to support a strong, united Europe and we congratulate Europeans on the recent enlargement of the European Union. . . .
Now, I am aware, as everyone in this room is aware, that Americans and Europeans do not always see things the same way in every instance. . . . This is hardly a new development. 
Henry Kissinger, decades ago, wrote a book on the Atlantic alliance, and he called it "The Troubled Partnership." I am told that later Henry had second doubts about the title, when he found that some bookstores were placing it on a shelf reserved for books about marriage counseling.
But maybe the bookstore owners knew what they were doing, because problems with some of our friends across the Atlantic go back a long time, more than two centuries by my count. In fact, one or two of our friends we have been in marriage counseling with for over 225 years nonstop, and yet the marriage is intact, remains strong, and will weather any differences that come along, because of our mutual shared values. . . .
On occasion, our experiences, our interests, will lead us to see things in a different way. . . . When we feel strongly about something, we will lead. We will act, even if others are not prepared to join us, but the United States will always work, will always endeavor, to get others to join in a consensus. . . .
When we talk about trust, let me use that as a bridge to one of the major issues of the day, Iraq. Let me try to explain why we feel so strongly about Iraq, and why we are determined that the current situation cannot be allowed to continue.
We are where we are today with Iraq because Saddam Hussein and his regime have repeated violated the trust of the United Nations, his people, and his neighbors, to such an extent as to pose a grave danger to international peace and security.
The . . . Security Council recognized this situation and unanimously passed Resolution 1441, giving Iraq one last chance to disarm peacefully after 11 years of defying the world community.
Today, not a single nation, not one, trusts Saddam and his regime. And those who know him best, trust him least. His own citizens, whom he has terrorized and oppressed; his neighbors, whom he has threatened and invaded. Citizens and neighbors alike have been killed by his chemical weapons. That is why Resolution 1441 was carefully crafted to be far tougher and far more thorough than the many resolutions that preceded it. Fourteen-forty-one places the burden squarely on Iraq to provide accurate, full and complete information on its weapons of mass destruction. . . .
This is not about inspectors finding smoking guns. It is about Iraqis' failure -- Iraq's failure -- to tell the inspectors where to find its weapons of mass destruction.
The 12,200-page declaration Iraq submitted to the United Nations Security Council on Dec. 7 utterly failed to meet the requirements of the resolution, utterly failed to meet the requirements of being accurate, full and complete. . . .
This past week, United Nations Inspector Blix and International Atomic Agency Inspector ElBaradei went to Baghdad to deliver the message that Iraq's cooperation has been inadequate. Iraq's response did nothing to alter the fact that Baghdad still is not providing the inspectors with the information they need to do their job. . . .
The support of United States intelligence and the intelligence of other nations can take the inspectors only so far. Without Iraq's full and active cooperation, the 100-or-so inspectors would have to look under every roof and search the back of every truck in a country the size of California to find the munitions and programs for which Iraq has failed to account for.
After six weeks of inspections, the international community still needs to know the answers to key questions. For example, where is the evidence? Where is the evidence that Iraq has destroyed the tens of thousands of liters of anthrax and botulinum we know it had before it expelled the previous inspectors? This isn't an American determination.
This was the determination of the previous inspectors. Where is this material? What happened to it? It's not a trivial question. We're not talking about aspirin. We're talking about the most deadly things one can imagine that can kill thousands, millions of people. We cannot simply turn away and say never mind. . . .
What happened to nearly 30,000 munitions capable of carrying chemical agents? The inspectors can only account for 16 of them. Where are they? It's not a matter of ignoring the reality of the situation. Just think, all of these munitions, which perhaps only have a short range if fired out of an artillery weapon in Iraq, but imagine if one of these weapons was smuggled out of Iraq and found its way into the hands of a terrorist organization that could transport it anywhere in the world.
What happened? Please, what happened, to the three metric tons of growth material that Iraq imported, which can be used for perdition, early, in a very rapid fashion, deadly biological agents? Where are the mobile vans that are nothing more than biological weapons laboratories on wheels? Why is Iraq still trying to procure uranium and the special equipment needed to transform it into material for a nuclear weapon?
These questions are not academic. They're not trivial. They are questions of life and death, and they must be answered.
To those who say why not give the inspection process more time, I ask, how much more time does Iraq need to answer these questions? It is not a matter of time alone. It is a matter of telling the truth, and so far Saddam Hussein still responds with evasion and with lies.
Saddam should tell the truth and tell the truth now. The more we wait, the more chance there is for this dictator, with clear ties to terrorist groups, including al Qaeda, more time for him to pass a weapon, share technology, or use these weapons again. . . .
Tomorrow, Chief Inspectors Blix and ElBaradei will make their report to the United Nations Security Council. My government will study their report carefully. We'll study it with gravity, and we will exchange views on the findings that are presented with other members of the Council. We're in no great rush to judgment tomorrow or the day after, but clearly time is running out. There is no longer an excuse for Iraqi denial of its obligations. We must have Iraq participate in the disarmament or be disarmed. . . .
Saddam Hussein's hidden weapons of mass destruction are meant to intimidate Iraq's neighbors. These illegal weapons threaten international peace and security. These terrible weapons put millions of innocent people at risk.
There's more than that. Saddam's naked defiance also challenges the relevance and credibility of the Security Council and the world community. When all 15 members of the Council voted to pass U.N. Resolution 1441, they assumed a heavy responsibility to put their will behind their words.
Multilateralism cannot become an excuse for inaction. Saddam Hussein and others of his ilk would like nothing better to see the world community back away from this resolution instead of backing it with their solemn resolve. We will work through these issues patiently and deliberately with our friends and with our allies. These are serious matters before us. Let the Iraqi regime have no doubt, however, that if it does not disarm peacefully at this juncture, it will be disarmed down the road.
The United States believes that time is running out. We will not shrink from war if that is the only way to rid Iraq of its weapons of mass destruction. We continue to reserve our sovereign right to take military action against Iraq alone or in a coalition of the willing. . . 
It is our hope, however, it is our will, that we can do this peacefully. It is our hope. We will it to happen that Iraq will participate in its disarmament. . . . But it is also our hope that the international community will stand behind the elements of 1441, and as a great coalition we will deal with this problem once and for all.
North Korea is another example of a country where trust is at issue. Over the past nine years, the international community engaged North Korea in good faith with nuclear agreements which we now know Pyongyang violated. At the same time, North Korea's policies have dragged its people into a dark, cold, hungry hell. . . .
And so in consultation with South Korea and Japan, the United States was ready last summer to pursue a bold approach with Pyongyang. The approach would have entailed political and economic steps to improve the lives of the North Korean people and move our relationship with the north toward normalcy. It was then that we discovered that the North had been pursuing a covert uranium enrichment program in egregious violation of its international obligations. When confronted with the bald facts, Pyongyang admitted what it had been doing.
The United States is wiling to talk to North Korea about how it will meet its obligations to completely dismantle its nuclear weapons program, but this is not just a matter between the United States and North Korea. Pyongyang's behavior affects the stability of both the immediate region and of the world, and that's why the I.A.E.A. Board of Governors deplored in the strongest terms North Korea's actions.
Once again, we are working with our allies and others in the region and across the international community to address, through diplomacy, our common concerns over North Korea's programs.
The United States has no intention of attacking North Korea. President Bush has said that repeatedly, and we are prepared to convey this in a way that makes it unmistakable to North Korea. At the same time, we keep all of our options on the table. Meanwhile, the United States has been the world's biggest donor of humanitarian assistance to North Korea, and we will continue to contribute to their humanitarian requirements and needs.
Let me be clear: the United States stands ready to build a different kind of relationship with North Korea once Pyongyang comes into verifiable compliance with its commitments. The North must be willing to act in a manner that builds trust. . . .

GRAPHIC: Photo (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); WORLD WAR II (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); MARRIAGE (68%); WRITERS (63%); BOOKSTORES (63%); TERRORISM (59%); HOSPITALS (52%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%); COUPLE COUNSELING (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%)

PERSON: POWELL, COLIN L (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (52%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); SWITZERLAND (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (93%); KOSOVO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



851 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: 7 Families Sue Administrator Of 9/11 Fund 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
In the most sweeping challenge yet to the federal fund intended to compensate relatives of Sept. 11 victims, the families of seven victims who worked at Cantor Fitzgerald have filed a lawsuit accusing the fund's administrator of acting illegally and unfairly, thereby shortchanging the families of all New York victims.
 The lawsuit calls the administrator, Kenneth R. Feinberg, autocratic and arrogant, and accuses him of having "run roughshod" over legislation governing the the Sept. 11 Victim Compensation Fund. It also says Mr. Feinberg has "alienated and disenfranchised the very constituency he was appointed to serve." 
 And it says that the fund violates New York law by calculating awards based on after-tax projections of lost income, discriminates against unmarried victims and imposes an illegal cap that could leave some high-income families with as little as one-tenth of what they should be awarded under the law establishing the fund. 
The lawsuit, which was filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan on Saturday, details many misgivings that have been circulating for months among some families and companies that lost relatives and employees in the attack on the World Trade Center.
If successful, the lawsuit could force Mr. Feinberg, whose title is special master of the fund, to pay out hundreds of millions, if not billions, of dollars more than the $4 billion to $5 billion the fund is expected to cost taxpayers. He would also have to review, and possibly recalibrate, the 154 awards that have already been offered to decedents' families. Those awards have totaled $240 million, an average of $1.56 million per family.
The failure of the suit could also work against Mr. Feinberg and the fund because some families may agree that its formulas calculate awards that are too low. Those families might then decide to sue the airlines, airport-security companies and other entities that have been cited as bearing some responsibility for allowing the hijacking of the four jetliners involved in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
But against the current backdrop of impending war and economic malaise, the tide of public opinion could also shift in favor of Mr. Feinberg and against the families for seemingly blurring the lines between grief and greed.
Reached at his home yesterday, Mr. Feinberg said he had not seen the suit. "I know nothing about it," he said, "and I have no comment. After I read it, I will turn the complaint over to the Department of Justice."
The lawsuit does not seek to overturn the statute that created the compensation fund as part of an airline bailout package after Sept. 11. Nor does it seek damages. Instead, it challenges the rules of the fund and the formulas Mr. Feinberg has come up with to determine monetary awards. It also seeks to create a single class of the approximately 2,800 victims who died at the World Trade Center. 
It does not include those people who died in the planes that crashed into the Pentagon and in Pennsylvania. 
The lawsuit was filed by John F. Cambria, managing partner of the New York office of Salans, an international law firm. The seven Cantor employees named in the suit were of varying ages and work experience. Their annual salaries ranged from less than $50,000 to more than $1 million.
Some of the lawsuit's arguments echo those made in a September report on the fund's shortcomings that was prepared by Cantor; the New York law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom; and the economic consulting firm of Chicago Partners. They also mirror arguments made either formally or informally by other companies that lost employees in the trade center attack.
Pamela S. Falk, a professor at the City University of New York who has no connection to the suit, said, "The court will have to weigh a strong and sympathetic case by the victims that they have not been fairly compensated against a longstanding tradition in U.S. law to give deference to government administrators."
And Perry Binder, a professor at Georgia State University in Atlanta, said that while the lawsuit may be technically correct, the courts may decide that Mr. Feinberg has not been unreasonable or unfair. But the real question, Mr. Binder said, was whether Congress would amend a hastily drawn and flawed statute.
"We all should have seen this lawsuit coming," he said.
The first of the four major areas of contention in the 30-page suit concerns taxes. Under New York law, pretax earnings are used in computing wrongful death awards. But Mr. Feinberg uses after-tax earnings, the complaint charges. As a result, while the survivor of a victim who made $225,000 a year should stand to receive $4.48 million under New York law, the fund would offer $3.35 million.
The second concerns the rate at which single people spend money. In computing wrongful-death awards, New York law does not differentiate between married and unmarried decedents. But according to the complaint, Mr. Feinberg calculates that a single decedent with an annual income of $70,000 spent 60.8 percent of that income, while a married decedent spent 17.4 percent because married people tend to spend less and can avail themselves of their spouses' income.
The complaint also charges that Mr. Feinberg computes income levels by averaging the years 1998 through 2000, and ignores the annualized earnings of 2001, which were presumably higher in part because of the strength of the local economy, particularly Wall Street, in the early part of the year. It accuses Mr. Feinberg of using national, not New York, statistics in calculating the growth rates of annual compensation and also says that he ignored stock options and other forms of compensation beyond salaries and bonuses.
Finally, the complaint says that Mr. Feinberg has "played a cat-and-mouse game" when it comes to figuring awards for victims who earned more than $231,000 a year.
The plaintiffs' lawyer, Mr. Cambria, said Mr. Feinberg has been loath to offer awards of more than $5 million or $6 million even though under his formula, a mother of two children who lost a 35-year-old husband should be offered $20 million. 
Mr. Cambria stressed that his high-income clients -- as well as the hundreds of others who died on Sept. 11 -- do not expect to receive awards of quite that magnitude. But still, he said, they felt that the numbers were far too low, and unfair.
"Some of what he has said sounds like he views his job as the sentry at the federal treasury," Mr. Cambria said. "But it's not his job to balance the budget, or bring this project in under a certain number. It's his job to carry out this statute passed by Congress."
Mr. Cambria said that his clients did not want to be interviewed because of privacy concerns and personal grief. But in a statement released by Mr. Cambria, one widow, who was not identified, said: "My husband worked a second job to support our children and me, and now he's gone. The amount of money we'll get if Feinberg's rules stay the way they are now is unfair. The simple fact is that we need more help."
Mr. Feinberg and the federal government have 60 days to respond to the complaint, Mr. Cambria said. But given the fact that the deadline to apply to the fund is Dec. 21, 2003, and that other legal matters related to Sept. 11 are still pending, Mr. Cambria said that he anticipated an expedited resolution.
He suggested that the best solution would be a settlement that adjusted the formulas worked out by Mr. Feinberg, who Mr. Cambria said also wanted to do right by the families.
"We believe in the fund," Mr. Cambria said. "I think the fund is a good thing. And at the end of the day, the amount of money between the way Feinberg wants to do it and the way the statute requires it -- that delta is, in terms of the federal budget or other Congressionally mandated programs, very insignificant. But to my clients, it's life or death. It's the rest of their lives."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); FAMILY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); DAMAGES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); HIJACKING (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); BAILOUTS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); AIRPORTS (67%); AIRLINES (67%); AVIATION SECURITY (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



852 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-6

Powell Nearly Dismisses U.N.'s Report on Iraq
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell came close to dismissing a crucial United Nations report on Iraq weapons, and said the United States would go to war alone if its divided European allies would not join the fight. The Bush administration will study the findings of the report, but Mr. Powell suggested it would be useless to give the inspectors more time. A1

Poised to Hit First and Alone
The United States appears ready to carry out its new doctrine authorizing pre-emptive attacks on hostile states and terrorists who represent potential threats. While the administration would prefer to have the support of the United Nations, it has put the world on notice that it is prepared to act on its own. A12

U.S. Offers Turkey $4 Billion
The United States, seeking to ensure Turkish military cooperation in any war against Iraq, is offering at least $4 billion to compensate Turkey for economic damage it might suffer as a result of playing an active role in an American-led coalition. A14

Australia Sends Forces to Gulf
Prime Minister John Howard of Australia decided, despite growing opposition there, to contribute about 2,000 defense personnel to the American-led forces assembling near Iraq. A10

U.S. Spy Plane Crashes
A United States spy plane crashed 30 miles south of Seoul, injuring the pilot and four Koreans on the ground. The pilot, the only person on board, ejected and landed several miles away. The cause of the crash was under investigation. A15

Blair's Popularity Waning
Prime Minister Tony Blair's tough talk on Iraq and his steadfast loyalty to President Bush have gained him acceptance in the United States and an invitation to Washington this crucial week, but they have cost him popularity at home and hard-won influence in Europe. A12

Israel Clamps Down
Two days before the Israeli elections, Israel's defense minister said that the army was weighing a reoccupation of the Gaza Strip. Its statements came hours after soldiers killed 12 Palestinians in the deepest raid into a densely populated city in more than two years of conflict. A3

Taiwan Strait Travel Eased
A Taiwan airliner picked up passengers at the international airport in Shanghai and returned to Taiwan, breaking a 54-year freeze on commercial aviation across the Taiwan Strait. A3

Protests Grip Ivory Coast
Mobs throwing stones attacked the French Embassy and army base in Ivory Coast as thousands marched in an explosion of anger over a peace accord they said France had imposed to the advantage of rebels. A4

Tibetan Monk Appeal Rejected
A Chinese court has rejected the appeal of a prominent Tibetan monk whose death sentence for bombing and separatist activities had touched off a world outcry. A4

NATIONAL A16-22

Surveillance Network Takes Aim at Bioterror
The government is building a computerized network that will monitor the health of people in eight big cities. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is to lead the multimillion dollar effort, which will try to spot disease outbreaks by tracking doctor reports, emergency-room visits and sales of flu medicines. A1

Arizona Cities Feel Drought
A persistent drought in rural Arizona and large parts of most other Western states is bearing down on Phoenix and Tucson. The cities are facing difficult decisions on water use as the state confronts the drought's long-term effects. A16

Coverage for Small Business
President Bush is planning a new initiative to help small businesses obtain health insurance. The proposal faces opposition from consumer groups and governors because the insurance would be largely exempt from state regulation. A21

Divisive Budget Measure
Lawmakers from both parties are predicting that many of the provisions the Senate inserted into its spending bill will be altered or stricken entirely because House Republicans are vowing to adhere closely to the $389.5 billion spending cap requested by President Bush. A21

Democrats Turn to Governor
Gov. Gary Locke of Washington will become one of few governors ever chosen to give the nationally televised response to the State of the Union address. A16

Gates Pledges $200 Million
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is giving $200 million to identify critical questions about the leading causes of death in developing nations and to create a competition to entice scientists to solve them. A16

Protest Against a Bishop
More than 200 people demonstrated outside St. Joseph's Cathedral in Manchester, N.H., to call for the resignation of Bishop John B. McCormack. A21

Clean-Up Duty in Pacific
The Fish and Wildlife Service is concerned about the responsibility of caring for Johnston Atoll in the Pacific and the potential liability from the radioactive dump there. A20

EDUCATION

More Privacy for Students
Colleges across the country have been competing with off-campus housing in a high-priced competition for students who are concerned with residential amenities. The colleges are creating new housing in which the single bedroom is the mainstay. A1

Mayor Names Superintendents
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg will announce the 10 regional superintendents for his overhauled Department of Education. At least four are widely respected superintendents who oversee relatively high-performing community school districts. B3

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

4 Bronx Teenagers Missing; Hope for Survival Dims
A search of the icy waters and small islands off City Island in the Bronx turned up no trace of four teenage boys who vanished Friday night after leaving a party and apparently shoving off into Long Island Sound in a fiberglass rowboat. B1

Suit Against 9/11 Fund
The families of seven victims who worked at Cantor Fitzgerald have filed a lawsuit accusing the fund's administrator of acting illegally and unfairly, thereby shortchanging the families of all New York victims. B1

Accident Victim Remembered
Nadine Wunsch, 21, an au pair from Germany who was fatally struck by a minivan as she was walking in Times Square, was remembered for her way with children and her timidity about the city. B1

Neediest Cases B6

SPORTSMONDAY D1-14

Tampa Bay Wins the Super Bowl
The Buccaneers beat the Oakland Raiders, 48-21, in Super Bowl XXXVII. Dexter Jackson was named the most valuable player D1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Cloned Cows and Cheese
Scientists in New Zealand reported that they have created cows that produce milk with higher than normal levels of protein, which would speed the process of making cheese. A20

OBITUARIES A23

ARTS E1-10

Uncertainty Over Big Exhibit
Questions exist as to whether the Museum of Modern Art's temporary home in Long Island City, Queens, will be able to handle the 4,000 daily visitors expected for "Matisse Picasso," an eagerly anticipated exhibit that opens on Feb. 13. The museum has 25,000 square feet of space in Long Island City; in Manhattan, it has 85,000. E1

Comedy Theater Is Closed
A New York City buildings inspector ordered closed the home of the Upright Citizen's Brigade in Chelsea because of an inadequate rear exit. The closing, in November, displaced dozens of comedians scheduled to perform. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Complaint Against Newspapers
The Justice Department signed a consent decree with New Times Media and Village Voice Media, two newsweekly chains that it had accused of dividing markets when they closed competing papers in Cleveland and Los Angeles last October. The department is expected to file a complaint and a competitive impact statement. C1

Music Stores Offer Downloads
Six of the largest music retailers plan to announce that they are joining forces to sell music that can be downloaded from the Web. The effort is motivated in part by the two-year decline in compact disc sales. C2

Hopes for Reconciliation
The president and chairman of the media giant Viacom are barely speaking, people who know them said. Board members are eager for a peace treaty. C1

New Investors to Lead Kmart
Kmart will be largely under the control of two investors, Edward S. Lampert and Martin J. Whitman, when the company emerges from bankruptcy protection, according to a reorganization plan. C2

Wireless Expansion Expected
The Federal Communications Commission is expected to announce that satellite voice and data companies can supplement their services with land-based wireless networks. C6

Disguised Letters to the Editor
Newspapers and political organizations are engaged in technological one-upmanship over letters to the editor that are mass e-mailed to members of organizations, who sign them to make them appear like authentic grass-roots responses. C10

Fight for Authors Is Seen
The Penguin Group confirmed that it was naming Ann Godoff, as the president and publisher of a new book imprint. Her new job sets up a battle for some of her authors. C2

New Movie Magazine Planned
The publisher of Maxim plans to launch a new magazine for young male movie viewers in May. C10

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Fighting school resegregation; dust off those recycling bins; Verlyn Klinkenborg on the troubling news from the publishing world.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E9
Crossword E10
Weather B8
Metro Diary B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); ARMIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (89%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (88%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); BOMBINGS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (76%); TERRORISM (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (71%); AIRPORTS (70%); AIRLINES (70%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (66%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (65%); CIVIL AVIATION (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TONY BLAIR (50%); JOHN HOWARD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (71%) XIZANG, CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (98%); TAIWAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (93%); TURKEY (93%); ISRAEL (93%); AUSTRALIA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); CHINA (92%); TIBET (92%); FRANCE (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



853 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Falling Into The Gap 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
Adolfo Jesus Recio suffers from asthma, depression and unemployment. His left hand was badly injured in an accident and is now almost useless. He panhandles in the middle of a busy street in the shadow of the downtown Miami skyline.
 No one pays much attention to Mr. Recio's hazardous pursuit of a handful of dimes and quarters. We've closed our eyes to poverty in the United States. Government aid these days goes to the plutocrats, and the poor are being left further and further behind. 
 "I eat from the garbage cans in back of Wendy's and in back of McDonald's," said Mr. Recio. "You have to know what you're doing when you do that. I had a friend a few years ago who died when he ate some food from a dumpster. He was hungry and he ate it. He didn't know they had put poison on it to keep out the vermin." 
Mr. Recio pointed toward a highway overpass. "I sleep down there, on a cardboard box under the bridge."
Miami is the poorest big city in the United States -- poorer than Newark, poorer than Detroit, poorer than any city with a population of 250,000 or more. Most of the poor are working, and many have more than one job. But the economy is lousy and the city is teeming with immigrants willing to work for extremely low wages, even for pay below the minimum wage. So jobs are hard to find and wages across the board are rock-bottom.
"People are living on the edge, paycheck to paycheck," said Judith Gatti, director of the Daily Bread Food Bank. She rattled off the categories of people needing food assistance: poor and working poor families, elderly men and women whose government checks are inadequate, mentally and physically handicapped people, battered women, people struggling with H.I.V. and AIDS, the homeless. She said 43 percent of those helped by the food bank are children.
Over the past few days I met with several people who are working full time and still have trouble feeding themselves and their families. Celestine Hardie is a 49-year-old certified nurse's aide who makes $8.50 an hour working the overnight shift at a nursing home. She then works three hours each morning (at $6.50 an hour) delivering sandwiches for a Subway franchise. She just barely makes it. She keeps her budget from caving in each month by eating at the nursing home and at Subway.
Ms. Hardie said that if she were to receive a windfall of some sort, she'd celebrate by treating her children and grandchildren to a dinner at Red Lobster.
At least Ms. Hardie is working. What is really troubling as you drive or walk around the poorest neighborhoods of Miami are the legions of men and women, many of them young, who are out of work, hungry and filled with the dread of what the next day might bring. A young woman named Naomi Sanchez said her brother had turned to selling drugs and been murdered, and that her best girlfriend had become a prostitute. She said she was unemployed and was on her way to another friend's house, where she hoped she'd be able to get something to eat.
The poverty in Miami exists in a startling juxtaposition to great wealth. Just a few minutes' drive from the panhandling turf of Adolfo Jesus Recio are the sparkling shores of Miami Beach and the gateway to the pristine environs of Fisher Island, an exclusive enclave that, according to the 2000 Census, is the wealthiest community in America. Fisher Island is off limits to everyone except residents, invited guests and whatever employees are needed to keep them safe and comfortable. It is accessible only by ferry. If Mr. Recio showed up on the dock and tried to board the ferry, he'd be angrily hustled away.
The Miami area is the most extreme example of the economic inequality that is becoming more and more evident throughout the U.S. If the gap between the folks at the top and those at the bottom continues to grow it will at some point undermine the social cohesion of the nation. Anyone who thinks it's a good idea for the pampered elite of Fisher Island to stockpile more and more in the way of luxuries and privilege while increasing numbers of Miamians are going to bed hungry should think again. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (89%); FAMILY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); POOR POPULATION (76%); ASTHMA (73%); TRENDS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (62%); SENIOR CITIZENS (62%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: DAILY BREAD FOOD BANK INC (53%)

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) MIAMI (FLA); FISHER ISLAND (FLA)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



854 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: We Are Individuals, Not Categories 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
While Hispanics have graduated to America's largest minority, they have failed to make the grade in grasping our common language, English (front page, Jan. 22). 
 Of the 21.3 million immigrants living here today who don't speak English well, 14 million are Hispanic. The inability to integrate economically, academically and socially into our society because of inadequate English has stranded far too many Hispanics in a workplace ghetto of low-wage, menial jobs, even for those who held more professional positions in their native lands. It is also a major factor in the high school dropout rate for Hispanics, which stands at 27.8 percent. 
 When will the lunacy end and the literacy begin?
Until we get serious about providing adequate resources for newcomers' English classes, immigrants, especially Hispanics, will continue to be marginalized to a second-class status.

MAURO E. MUJICA
Chairman, U.S. English
Washington, Jan. 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (73%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%) POPULATION; HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

PERSON: MUJICA, MAURO E 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



855 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Titans Still Gather at Davos, Shorn of Profits and Bravado 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
When the Swiss police blocked off this Alpine village against a band of antiglobalization protesters on Saturday, one of the globe-trotting capitalists stuck outside was Sir Howard Stringer, the chief executive of the Sony Corporation of America.
 As he trudged up a snow-dusted hill, looking for an alternative route into the World Economic Forum, Sir Howard mused that the demonstrations seemed almost beside the point at this year's gathering of chief executives, prime ministers and those who carry their cellphones. 
 The global economy, he said, remains on the ropes, while the preparations for war in Iraq have transformed the conference, once a showcase for the high-technology ambitions of companies like Sony and Microsoft, into a forum for criticism of the United States and its foreign policy.
"How do you separate the protesters outside from the hostility inside?" said Sir Howard, who is a repeat visitor to the conference. "For the first time, the demonstrations seem peculiarly redundant." 
The reversal of fortune seems especially notable for the leaders of American technology, Internet and media companies. Fresh-faced moguls like Michael S. Dell of Dell Computer and Stephen M. Case, recently of AOL Time Warner, used to hold court here, swapping views on panels with world leaders like Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain.
Now, most maintain lower visibility, steering clear of high-flown discussions about technology and mankind to meet with customers, prospective customers and the occasional reporter, to whom they convey the by-now familiar message that the economic climate is still frigid.
When they do venture out, they are sometimes taken aback by the themes that dominate the conference. Scott G. McNealy, the chairman and chief executive of Sun Microsystems, found himself on a panel about how to secure the world's information infrastructure from attack.
"I suppose you could ask, 'What good is it to have Web browser access when your building falls down?' " said Mr. McNealy, who would rather discuss the wonders of Java software than the evils of terrorism.
Like its peers, Sun has suffered through the downturn, reporting heavy losses and laying off employees. Mr. McNealy said he was encouraged that the company reported a 6 percent increase in sales, and smaller-than-expected losses, in the most recent quarter.
But he declined to predict when things might recover, saying, "People are only guessing as to what's going to happen."
William N. Joy, the software designer with whom Mr. McNealy founded Sun in 1982, was more blunt. "What if the reality is that people have already bought most of the stuff they want to own?" he said.
Famous in Silicon Valley for his unconventional views, Mr. Joy does not stick to a corporate script. But those executives who do expressed little optimism about the health of the economy.
"It's not deteriorating, but it's not recovering either," said Carleton S. Fiorina, chief executive of Hewlett-Packard.
Ms. Fiorina, whose company supplies the wireless pocket PC's handed out to the conference participants, said she thought the technology industry would never regain the momentum it had in the 1990's, when its annual growth rate was four to five times that of the broad economy.
In good times, Ms. Fiorina said, it might grow at twice the rate of the economy. She added that Hewlett-Packard, which is still digesting its acquisition of Compaq Computer, could grow 7 to 9 percent a year.
"Technology is more woven into society," she said. "It is becoming a more mature and stable industry."
John T. Chambers, the chief executive of Cisco Systems, said his clients had shown no signs of resuming their technology purchases. Like Sun, Cisco has been devastated by the sharp cutbacks in corporate spending on computer networks, routers and other equipment.
"The risk-reward factors are more conservative than I've ever seen in my business career, which is a nice way of saying that C.E.O.'s are being very cautious in their spending this year," Mr. Chambers said at a panel discussion. He predicted that gains in productivity brought about by technology would propel the United States back to robust growth within five years. For now, though, "it's a 'show-me' economy," he said.
Technology heavyweights have not lost all their cachet. People still avidly track Bill Gates, Microsoft's co-founder, who is a regular here. But these days, Mr. Gates emphasizes his philanthropy over his company. Those looking for an update on the software industry did not get it from his panel, which was devoted to "Science for the Global Good."
Founders of Internet start-ups were scarce. A few turned up for a panel called "The Dot-com Boom: How did we get it so wrong?" Composed mainly of the companies that survived the bust, it seemed less a post-mortem than a group therapy session.
"Was it really a bust?" asked Shelby W. Bonnie, chairman of CNET Networks, an e-commerce service. "A lot more people are using the Internet than before the boom. We changed the way people behave."
Kevin P. Ryan, the chief executive of DoubleClick, an online advertising business, said companies like his were still growing, although at a much slower rate than in the boom days. Mr. Ryan said his colleagues had to accept that the spotlight had swung away from their industry.
"We're all basically $300 million to $400 million companies," he said. "That's pretty small in the scheme of things."
The Internet companies, at least, are represented. The media and entertainment industries, once mainstays of the World Economic Forum, are notable mostly for their absence. In part, that is a result of the revolving doors at the big media companies. Past participants like Mr. Case of AOL Time Warner and Jean-Marie Messier of Vivendi Universal no longer have their old jobs. Rupert Murdoch of the News Corporation sent his son James, who oversees the Star TV network in Asia.
Sir Howard of Sony had a simpler theory of why many of the tycoons stayed away. "The two themes this year are rebuilding trust in business and the war in Iraq," he said. "That's not exactly cheerful."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sir Howard Stringer (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (88%); TRENDS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (74%); LAYOFFS (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); IRAQ WAR (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); ETHICS (68%); TERRORISM (67%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); JAVA PROGRAMMING (63%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (61%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; ETHICS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: AOL INC (68%); SONY CORP OF AMERICA (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%) WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (68%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (68%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (68%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (53%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: HOWARD STRINGER (90%); MICHAEL DELL (57%); STEVE CASE (57%); TONY BLAIR (50%) LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (92%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%) DAVOS (SWITZERLAND); IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



856 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: WRITERS ON WRITING; 
Variations for Four Hands On a Theme by Tocqueville

BYLINE:  By PETER JENNINGS and TODD BREWSTER 

 BODY:
It's hard for many people to imagine two authors writing together. What happens when they disagree? What if one likes long sentences, the other short? 
 Writing teams in other fields have often found such unions nearly unbearable: think of the cold distance that the librettist William Gilbert kept from his composer colleague Arthur Sullivan, or how Richard Rodgers endured years of trouble with the often unreliable and irascible Lorenz Hart. But for us, co-authorship has been a surprisingly comfortable process dependent upon one thing: amity. When we met almost nine years ago, put together by an ABC news executive to whom we shall forever be in debt, we became friends first, then co-authors. We are still friends first. That's why we can be co-authors. 
 Journalism is perhaps the only kind of writing that could endure this sort of arrangement calmly. Does Stephen King write with a partner? Does Scott Turow dream of a superstar union with John Grisham? Of course not. 
To be believable, fiction requires the obsessive stream of a single hellbent imagination. Biography is already a twosome: the author and his subject have an intimacy that would only be interrupted by the presence of a co-author. But journalism is almost by definition a group endeavor. 
Where fiction may conjure the image of a lonely figure huddled in a garret, writing essentially for himself, journalism is a gregarious and public affair closely wrapped up with its audience and generally enhanced by the reporter's willingness to grapple with the input of his colleagues. Just about every journalist spends much, if not all, of his career at a newspaper, a magazine or in broadcasting. And it is there, in that quintessential journalist's environment known as the newsroom, that reporters pass ideas back and forth, challenging one another's assumptions, substituting fresh reporting for the stale until in a moment of harmony (forced as much by deadlines as by agreement) they settle upon the story. Only after much seasoning and kneading of the reputation does one emerge to take on this process on his or her own. Even then, as we've learned, it helps to have a partner.
When we set out nearly three years ago to do "In Search of America," our newest book, we joined a grand tradition in journalism. All literary works of any depth aim at taking the reader on some kind of trip: after all, what better compliment can be paid about a book than to say that one came away from reading it feeling transported? But the journey book is a classic form of the reporter's craft, and the trip to take stock of a nation, particularly a nation as changeable as the American nation, has always had its own special appeal. It was Thomas Jefferson who declared that each generation should invent America anew, shaking off the dead hand of the past. 
Throughout American history it has fallen to journalists (in the moment) and historians (a little later) to tell us what each generation of Americans has become.
Those of us who undertake the challenge to redefine America work in the shadow of some stunning past achievements: in recent decades Richard Reeves, John Steinbeck, and Luigi Barzini (to name a mere few) all told us something important about the America of their time. Still, any modern American journey book must suffer the inevitable comparisons to the great Frenchman Alexis de Tocqueville, who came here along with his partner, Gustave de Beaumont, in the 1830's and a few years later produced the standard to which all who wish to take the pulse of America aspire. 
Tocqueville's "Democracy in America" gently summed up the American character with several hundreds of pages of deftly rendered brush strokes. If you don't believe us, do a computer search through America s major newspapers and see how often he is quoted even today. It is truly astonishing. 
One of the requirements of the journalist's profession is that he or she be prepared to be surprised.
One can certainly go out on a journey with the mind already cast toward what he will find, but he should be ready to have such notions challenged or be fairly accused of not having taken a journey after all. When Tocqueville set out, he was ostensibly researching the penal system in America, which, by emphasizing reform over punishment, had captured the interest of the French. (Even then, America was a place that respected second chances.) But well before he landed, he also had it in his mind to expand his scope to take in the rise of democracy. 
What Tocqueville found both pleased and, as an aristocrat, disturbed him. He worried that in its obsession with the democratic ideal, America appeared vulnerable to creating a new form of oppression, the tyranny of the majority. 
We were inspired to take on America as a subject after our last book, "The Century," led us to a keen sense of some late-20th-century trends that seemed to be undermining national identity: globalization, the Internet, the end of cold war politics, the growing worldwide acceptance of democracy and market economics. How would Americans define themselves when so much of the rest of the world began thinking and acting, well, like Americans?
The answer, as we found, is just as Americans always have defined themselves: around an essential set of ideas and values, chief among them the sacredness of freedom. Other peoples might be beginning to practice such ideals, but only Americans actually define themselves by them. 
One of the biggest differences between our journey and Tocqueville's is that we took television cameras along. Our work differs most dramatically from other writers in the way that we have conceived our journalism as at once both literary and filmic. 
"The Century" and "In Search of America" were each the basis for an ABC News television series. Tocqueville would have been stunned by the technology, but he would have found much in television to confirm his 19th-century judgments about American exceptionalism: even then he saw Americans as interested in a common form of culture, one that provided the glue to unite them, which appealed to the taste of the masses and that at times even bordered on the vulgar. Democratic peoples, wrote Tocqueville in a characteristic display of understatement, have only a mediocre esteem for erudition. 
We found that the key to succeeding in both media is to respect their separate strengths. A documentary script that pretends toward literature is a failure. Anyone who has ever read a successful script will marvel at its conciseness and invisibility: a few hundred words chosen well but with an ear to how they sound more than how they read and to how successfully they relate to the picture on the screen. There is an immediacy to television that print can never match and a reflective quality to print that stirs the imagination in a way that television never comes near. 
Paradoxically we have television to thank for the glorious opportunity we have recently enjoyed: that is, to extend our vision to both the screen and the written page. We would not be the first to observe that television is America's electronic town green and that those journalists who appear on it are sometimes granted a special exalted position in American life. A generation ago Walter Cronkite was known as the most respected man in America. That level of honorific seems to have been exclusive to his extraordinary appeal. But we are mindful that even today, in the era of cable, when America's news sources have multiplied, television gives us a stage and a responsibility. 
Sometimes the fame can get in the way; many more times it is an advantage. Rather than your having to find the story, the story comes to you. One day, reporting for our latest book, we were getting into our car at a parking lot at Gettysburg, when a man, noticing the more famous of us, approached with a challenge. "Are you sovereign or are you global?" he demanded. We wondered at first if he was referring to some piece of local lore, and so we just nodded and started to drive off. 
Then it dawned upon us that the scene we had just witnessed was a grass-roots expression of our very thesis: a Michigan truck driver, as it turned out, taking his family on a visit to one of America s great Civil War battle sites even as he worried that the country he so loved was under a threat posed by the seductive nature of internationalism. We turned the car around and went back for a longer conversation. For a journalist or two in search of America, it was a moment worth savoring. 

Writers on Writing
Articles in this series are presenting writers' exploration of literary themes. Previous contributions are online: nytimes.com/books/columns

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Jennings, left, and Todd Brewster collaborate on books and television reporting. (Michael Nagle for The New York Times)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); LITERATURE (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (52%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; SURVEYS AND SERIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (58%); STEPHEN KING (52%) JENNINGS, PETER; BREWSTER, TODD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



857 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Turn to Governor for Their State of the Union Response 

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
When President Bush finishes the State of the Union address Tuesday, the Democrats will nudge to center stage a relatively obscure governor from the West to say that the drums of war should not drown out the worst economic crisis in a half-century for state governments. 
 The governor, Gary Locke of Washington, already has a small niche in history as the first Chinese-American to hold a state's highest office. Now he will become one of few governors chosen to give the nationally televised response to the president's message to Congress. 
 Governor Locke, the son of Chinese immigrants, grew up in public housing in Seattle and went to Yale, in part, on affirmative action scholarships. So his biography may be more powerful than the message he plans to deliver in a bit more than 10 minutes Tuesday night. 
Mr. Locke said in an interview that he planned to contrast President Bush's proposal to cut dividend taxes with Democratic plans to "help out everyday people who are struggling." 
He noted that 1.5 million jobs had been lost since the recession began two years ago and that many states were awash in red ink. The president's plan to eliminate taxes on stock dividends will only make the problem in the statehouses worse, Mr. Locke said. 
On foreign policy, the Democrats are unlikely to depart much from president's chosen path, people who are helping to draft Governor Locke's speech say, except to urge more backing from traditional allies before going to war. 
Mr. Locke said, "We think there are clear distinctions between the Democratic approach and the president's."
Usually, party leaders in Congress give the opposition response. But the governors, who provided Democrats with one of the few bright spots in the last election by picking up 4 seats for a total of 24, have been pressing for more say in the national political message.
Mr. Locke noted that 53 percent of Americans lived in states governed by Democratic executives. Last fall, the Democrats won governor's races in big states like Pennsylvania, Illinois and Michigan and also in Republican strongholds like Kansas and Wyoming. But they lost in two big states, Florida and Texas, where they thought they had a real chance. 
Governors have also been a productive bench for both parties -- producing four of the last five presidents.
Last month, Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader in the Senate, agreed to let the governors pick someone to give the response speech from among their ranks. They chose Governor Locke, 53, who was elected to two terms by wide margins and is chairman of the Democratic Governors' Association.
Republicans in this state say Governor Locke has been a failure, overseeing the collapse of a dynamic economy while not delivering on promises to improve transportation.
"Locke is a really an odd choice for the Democrats," said Chris Vance, chairman of the state Republican Party. "Normally, you want to highlight somebody who's been a success. By any measurement, Gary Locke has been a failure as governor."
Certainly, the state is struggling. Washington is facing a $2.5 billion deficit on a two-year budget of $25 billion and has one of the highest unemployment rates in the nation, 6.8 percent. The state has been hammered by the dot-com collapse and huge layoffs by the Boeing Company, which has moved its corporate base to Chicago but still builds most of its airplanes in the Puget Sound area. 
Nationwide, the states are projecting budget deficits of $60 billion to $80 billion over the next two years, with California's shortfall alone making up half of that. The Democratic governors have requested direct aid from the federal government to help with the deficits, arguing that much of the red ink was caused by new federal burdens for domestic security and medical aid for the elderly. 
Despite the problems in Washington State, Governor Locke was popular until recently, but now some polls show his approval rating declining. He won election twice by nearly 20 percentage points, campaigning as a business-friendly centrist and focusing on education. 
This month, the governor surprised many in his own party by pledging not to raise taxes to make up the deficit and by asking for deferral of two voter-approved measures to raise teachers salaries and reduce class sizes. 
Mr. Locke said he had not decided whether to run for a third term next year. But he has already drawn a Democratic challenger, Phil Talmadge, a former state Supreme Court justice.
The governor rarely appears on national television talk shows, and prefers to spend his weekends with his wife, Mona Lee, a television documentary producer, and their two small children, Emily and Dylan, in their house in Seattle. He has said he may one day leave politics to become a "soccer dad" for his children. 
Mr. Locke is not known as a dynamic speaker. When asked how he felt approaching Tuesday's speech, the biggest political moment of his life, he said, "Yikes!"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Gary Locke of Washington will give the response to the State of the Union address. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); IMMIGRATION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); DIVIDENDS (67%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOVERNORS (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); CHINESE-AMERICANS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); GARY LOCKE (90%); TOM DASCHLE (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); LOCKE, GARY (GOV); EGAN, TIMOTHY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) WASHINGTON (STATE)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



858 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: White House Letter; 
The State of the Union and the Turn of a Phrase

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

 BODY:
The White House released a photograph of Michael Gerson last week, which may have been the last time that anyone outside the Bush administration got a good look at the chief speechwriter at a very big moment. 
 Mr. Gerson, the pencil-chewing evangelical Christian who put the evil in the "axis of evil," is making final revisions to the State of the Union address that President Bush is to deliver to huge expectations, and great trepidation, tomorrow night. By Friday, when Mr. Gerson was staring at no fewer than 75 calls from reporters, he responded by going underground, saying he did not want to talk. 
 But lots of former White House speechwriters did. Conversations over the weekend with a half dozen of them from past Democratic and Republican administrations turned up the following consensus: 
This is the most historically important State of the Union speech that any of them can remember. The president has an onerous task in convincing Americans why he should go to war with Iraq. He also faces a sharp political problem because events -- most urgently the United Nations weapons inspectors' report due today -- are forcing him to talk about Saddam Hussein when polls show that Americans want him to focus more on the economy. 
And, not least, all the speechwriters said they wished they were writing this State of the Union address themselves.
"You spend a lot of time for any president making small moments sound historic, whether or not they deserve it," Jeff Shesol, a former speechwriter for Bill Clinton, said. "Very few speechwriters in very few times are presented with genuinely pivotal moments, when so much seems to hang on the president's words." Mr. Bush is going to have to make his case in a "disciplined and linear and persuasive fashion," he said. "It's certainly a great test."
Anthony R. Dolan, the former chief speechwriter for Ronald Reagan who wrote Mr. Reagan's first and last State of the Union addresses as well as his "evil empire" speech about the former Soviet Union, acknowledged that there was tension between the domestic political need to talk about the economy and the inevitability of reacting to today's weapons inspection report and the military buildup in the Persian Gulf.
"But it is exactly the sort of tension that makes for a great speech," said Mr. Dolan, who is now an adviser to Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld. "If it's done properly, it leads to a kind of creative flourish that can solve both problems."
Mr. Dolan called the State of the Union "the mother of all speeches" and said that White House debates about the proper mix of foreign and domestic policy were as old as the speech itself. 
"There's always this wild thing going on of, 'Can we put foreign policy first? Do we put it at the back? Do we mix it in with the domestic agenda?' " he said. "Everyone tries everything, but then it always falls into a time-honored ritual, which is domestic first."
Mark W. Davis, who wrote President George Bush's speech to a joint session of Congress in September 1990 that laid out the case for what became the Persian Gulf war, said that this speech had to tackle larger problems than simply driving Saddam Hussein from Kuwait.
"We're going into something much bigger and more protracted than pushing someone back across a line," he said. "We're involved in the task of changing a government and in some ways a society." The balance for the president "is to find some way to get people sufficiently alarmed about the emerging threats to this country, but not so alarmed that they lose confidence in the future," he said. "That's a very delicate task."
Administration officials say that Mr. Bush met with Mr. Gerson and his team of speechwriters in mid-December to outline the goals and tone that he wanted for the address. The speechwriters prepared a two- to three-page outline, which they presented to Mr. Bush when he returned from a holiday at his Texas ranch early this month. Mr. Gerson then hammered out a first draft of the speech, given to Mr. Bush on Jan. 17, a Friday, allowing him the weekend to review it. More drafts followed, and revisions are expected up until the last minute. 
Administration officials and Republicans close to the White House say that the speech, which will be watched as intensely overseas as it is at home, sparked no roiling internal debates about guns and butter, or whether Mr. Bush should focus more on the economy or Iraq. 
"I think that's a false dichotomy, because the stock market and investments are on hold until he resolves this anyway," said David R. Gergen, a former chief speechwriter for Richard M. Nixon who also worked in the Ford, Reagan and Clinton White Houses. "And if he successfully resolves the Iraq crisis there will be overwhelming support for him in the Congress, and that will smooth the way for passage of most of his economic programs. In my judgment, his Iraq policy is his economic policy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush went over a draft of his State of the Union address with Dan Bartlett, left, the White House communications director, and Michael Gerson, the chief speechwriter. (The White House) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); POLITICS (76%); INSPECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (72%); RELIGION (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (67%); IRAQ WAR (67%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (70%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (51%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (55%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



859 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: BRITAIN; 
Blair Pays a Price at Home For Supporting Bush on Iraq

BYLINE:  By WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Tony Blair's moralizing diplomacy, his tough talk on Iraq and his steadfast loyalty to President Bush have gained him acceptance in the United States and an invitation to Washington this crucial week, but they have cost him popularity at home and hard-won influence in Europe.
 In opinion surveys of the British public, a majority have been questioning his aggressive posture against Iraq and faulting him for being too subservient to the United States. Britons also increasingly accuse him of becoming distracted from the problems that affect their daily lives, like poor transportation, inattentive health services and rising street crime. 
 Mr. Blair, who has sent 26,000 troops to the Persian Gulf, reiterated his position in an interview with David Frost on the BBC this morning. He made arguments for the need to disarm Saddam Hussein and to limit additional inspection time before action might be taken to weeks rather than the months being sought by other European leaders. 
In the hours that followed, the network conducted a call-in survey on whether viewers had been persuaded of the need to go to war, and 66 percent said no. A poll in The Sunday Times of London recorded 68 percent giving the same response to the question, "Has Tony Blair convinced you Saddam Hussein is sufficiently dangerous to justify war?"
Abroad, Mr. Blair's projection of Britain's power in the world through its alliance with America is undercutting his parallel desire to leverage the country's power in its own region.
"The Europeans do not see Britain as a trustworthy partner anymore," said Charles Grant, director of the London-based Center for European Reform. "Nobody wants to be seen holding hands with us in public -- we're not kosher, we're not nice people to deal with."
Despite this damage to his popularity in Britain and across Europe, Mr. Blair shows no signs of easing off, and in recent weeks he has faced down critics of his robust embrace of America within his party, the country's diplomatic corps and his own cabinet. He regularly speaks of shared trans-Atlantic values, praises the United States as "a force for good in the world" and denounces anti-Americanism as "a foolish indulgence."
In response to charges that he is Mr. Bush's obedient lapdog, Mr. Blair has said that if Mr. Bush had not acted on Iraq, Mr. Blair would have urged him to do so.
An American official who sees Mr. Blair frequently said the Bush administration put high stock on his efforts to sway European opinion. "For us, he is the Dutch boy with his finger in the dike," the American said. On Friday, Mr. Blair will fly to the United States for an Iraq strategy meeting with Mr. Bush at Camp David.
Asked why the prime minister was acting so forcefully on an issue that other European leaders were more tentative about, a Blair adviser said: "Last September, iron was put in the souls of Bush and Blair. They both realized that the big risk now was rogue states with weapons of mass destruction, or Al Qaeda with them."
Though Mr. Blair was once caricatured as a leader who measured his policies by their popular appeal, another quite different phrase now arises in comments by analysts and officials. "He is a conviction politician," said the American official. "When he gets going, you can tell he really believes in the rightness of what he is doing."
Writing in today's Observer, Andrew Rawnsley, a columnist, commented on this shift in how Mr. Blair was perceived. "A man so often in the past depicted as mesmerized by focus groups has supported the United States against the grain of opinion among both the voters and within his party," he wrote. "It is one of the many ironies of his situation that the very same people who used to revile him for being enslaved to opinion polls now lambaste him for not listening to the public."
The most frequent explanation Mr. Blair gives for his actions is the simple statement that it is the "right thing" to do. Friends point to his deeply held religious belief as the source of this sense of certainty and cite it as a reason that he gets on well with Mr. Bush, who also credits faith with inspiring his policies.
Charles A. Kupchan, professor of international affairs at Georgetown University and director of European studies at the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington, said he believed that Mr. Blair was making a mistake in appearing to turn his back on Europe in favor of the United States. But Mr. Kupchan asserted that there was no doubting that Mr. Blair was acting out of principle rather than pragmatism.
"I think one can conclude by a process of elimination that Blair is motivated by sincere conviction," he said, "because his stance is seriously imperiling his fortunes at home and perhaps irreparably damaging his relations with the European Union, and no prime minister is going to run those risks unless he deeply believes that attacking Iraq is the right thing to do."
When he came to power in 1997, succeeding a Conservative Party with suspect loyalties to Europe, Mr. Blair set out to establish Britain as a leading player on the Continent while maintaining Britain's traditional alliance with the United States.
Mr. Grant said he had watched Britain's influence on the Continent grow measurably during Mr. Blair's first five years in office. "But it is striking to me in the past year how that influence has gone down and gone down rapidly," he said. "The political elites on the Continent, whether right or left, think that on Iraq, Blair is just sycophantically pro-American and not even using his influence to try to restrain Bush."
James P. Rubin, a visiting professor at the London School of Economics who was an assistant secretary of state during the Clinton administration, said Mr. Blair signaled his moralizing instincts soon after coming to power in 1997.
"He saw Kosovo as a matter of right and wrong, and a lot of people at the Foreign Office did not share that kind of thinking," Mr. Rubin said. "British foreign policy in the Balkans until then was to see all sides as bad guys, but Blair didn't.
"So his first major act as a foreign policy figure was to change British foreign policy, and he did it on the principle of right and wrong."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Demonstrators yesterday at an air force base in Fairford, England, that has been used by American bombers. (Agence France-Presse); Prime Minister Tony Blair has angered many Britons by sending 26,000 troops to the Persian Gulf. (BBC, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); POLITICS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (66%); TERRORISM (62%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; TERRORISM 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%) HOGE, WARREN; BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) INDIAN OCEAN (71%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (98%); EUROPE (95%); IRAQ (94%); ENGLAND (79%); GULF STATES (73%) IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



860 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: DIPLOMACY; 
In One Hand, U.S. Offers Turkey $4 Billion for War Aid; in Other, a Demand for Reform

BYLINE:  By ALAN FRIEDMAN and THOMAS CRAMPTON, International Herald Tribune 

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
The United States, seeking to ensure Turkish military cooperation in any war against Iraq, is offering at least $4 billion to compensate Turkey for economic damage it might suffer as a result of playing an active role in an American-led coalition.
 "If Turkey helps us in the war, we want to help Turkey with the economic consequences of its role in that war," a senior American official said today. 
 Separately, a top international financial official said today that Washington was offering "at least $4 billion, and possibly a great deal more over a period of three years."
Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is considered to be the leader of Turkey's governing Justice and Development Party, confirmed that the $4 billion aid figure had been discussed, but said the amount was inadequate. 
"Some words are going around about $2 billion plus $2 billion," Mr. Erdogan said in an interview today. "These types of amounts with this type of crisis will not solve Turkey's problems."
The offer of aid, which has been repeated in recent days during meetings between officials from the United States and Turkey, is part of a carrot-and-stick approach by Washington to guarantee Turkish participation.
Washington has been seeking the use of military bases and other facilities that would allow the United States to use Turkey as a staging point for a possible attack into northern Iraq. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell discussed the issue of military bases with the Turkish prime minister, Abdullah Gul, here on Saturday. Diplomats have also indicated that Washington is thinking of placing 15,000 American troops in Turkey as part of its military strategy against Iraq.
The Turkish leadership is worried about the domestic political fallout that could result from being seen as too pro-American by a largely antiwar Muslim population.
Ankara, already grappling with a deeply troubled economy, is also worried about billions of dollars of damage to its economy, especially in the tourism sector, that its involvement in a war could bring. 
Washington is also telling Mr. Gul that within the next few days, Turkey must push through critical economic reforms, including radical cuts in public spending, to persuade the International Monetary Fund to disburse a $1.7 billion installment of the fund's package for Turkey.
According to the senior American official, President Bush wrote a private letter to Mr. Gul, delivered on Jan. 24, in which Mr. Bush described Washington's need for Turkish cooperation in the war against Iraq.
In that letter, Mr. Bush also underscored the importance of Ankara's first satisfying the fund's conditions before a compensation package with the United States could be agreed to.
"Without your commitment to the I.M.F. program," Mr. Bush wrote, according to the American official, "the benefit of any assistance package" from the United States would be lost.
Mr. Bush was seeking to drive home to the Turkish leader the same message that was delivered recently by Anne Krueger, first deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund: that Turkey should not expect special favors or American largesse unless it sticks to the the fund's program.
According to a document written by United States Treasury officials in preparation for talks between Turkey and the United States, both the International Monetary Fund and the Bush administration have concluded that Turkey is in violation of its fund commitments and needs to take emergency action to get back on course.
The document says Turkey "is now seriously off-track with respect to its I.M.F. and World Bank programs."
The document, classified as "for official use only -- market sensitive," was authenticated by a senior American official attending the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum here in Davos.
The official emphasized that American financial compensation for potential damage to the Turkish economy was separate from International Monetary Fund aid. Nonetheless, he acknowledged that the aid was linked to Turkish military cooperation in a war against Iraq. "The discussion of supplemental assistance has always been in the context of military cooperation against Iraq," the official said. "That's the purpose of the assistance."
The behind-the-scenes diplomatic pressure from the Bush administration comes as Turkey must refinance a hefty $3 billion in short-term debt on Feb. 5.
A key to gaining investor support for the refinancing at affordable interest rates would be Turkey's completion of a letter of intent this week with the International Monetary Fund that would unlock the disbursement of $1.7 billion.
Important issues highlighted by the confidential document included meeting a primary budget surplus target of 6.5 percent of gross national product.
Ankara's proposal to deal with the situation as expressed in a draft letter of intent submitted to the International Monetary Fund on Jan. 22 was "not sufficient" the document states.
"The U.S., the I.M.F. and its other major shareholders -- as well as the markets -- need to see convincing evidence of the government's willingness and ability to implement strong economic policies," the document states. "The time to do so is limited."
Raising more detailed concerns about Ankara's draft letter of intent,
the document written by the Treasury officials warns that the plan to raise a 6.5 percent primary surplus "falls seriously short." "The cumulative effect of revenue and spending measures are not enough to meet the target," the document states. "Many are ad hoc and temporary."
As for longer-term structural measures, the United States government document warns that the letter of intent contains almost no commitments to conditions on structural measures.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters in Istanbul yesterday deplored war with Iraq. Turkish leaders are reluctant to buck public opinion by overtly aiding the United States. (Lynsey Addario/Corbis Saba, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MILITARY BASES (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); TERRORISM (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TRENDS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%) ;INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

PERSON: ABDULLAH GUL (89%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) ERDOGAN, RECEP TAYYIP; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GUL, ABDULLAH (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (88%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (73%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) TURKEY (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%) TURKEY; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



861 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Dust Off Those Recycling Bins 

 BODY:
It is a small company with a large and mostly unknown name, Hugo Neu Schnitzer East. But the New Jersey company may have provided a turning point for New York City's embattled recycling program. By offering to pay the city more than $5 a ton for its recyclable plastics and metal -- a bid the city has applauded but not yet officially accepted -- Hugo Neu improved the likelihood that the program for plastics, suspended as a cost-cutting measure by Mayor Michael Bloomberg last July, will return next summer. 
 By contrast, the next-best bid would have required that the city pay more than $67 a ton to remove the recyclables, which is in line with past history. The city maintains that it saved $40 million by halting the special collection of glass and plastics -- although William Thompson Jr., the city comptroller, and others dispute that there were significant savings. Still, Mr. Bloomberg's action focused attention on the costs of recycling, whatever its long-term benefits to the environment and economy. 
 The mayor even wanted to eliminate metals recycling but compromised with the City Council. The Council, buttressed by experts in recycling, argued that the city had more to lose by rolling back. Among other things, it would have squandered all those years invested in inculcating the recycling habit in New Yorkers, who for the most part are comfortable pitching stuff in the regular trash unless persuaded to do otherwise.
The mayor also alarmed environmentalists when he gave the job of designing a cost-effective recycling program to a task force with little expertise on the subject. Hugo Neu may now have relieved that panel of some of its hard work. But large challenges remain. Recycling glass is more complicated than recycling metals and plastic, and so far no one has stepped forward to save the day. Potential new markets for recycled glass, like wine bottling and road paving, need to be explored, as they were for paper and metal.
Meanwhile, all of this must be accomplished by a Sanitation Department that is struggling to collect and dispose of 11,000 tons of residential garbage daily. More work will obviously be needed to arrive at a comprehensive plan for recycling, and the mayor should consider finding an expert with a track record to do it.
If and when the city signs with Hugo Neu, the contract is likely to be for just five years, which may be enough for the company but not nearly long enough to encourage the kind of industry investment that could make recycling profitable and competitive for the long haul. Recycling's prospects now, however, seem better than they have in months. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); RENEWABLE PLASTICS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); CITIES (77%); BUDGETS (75%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); WINERIES (50%) WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; EDITORIALS; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; PLASTICS; METALS AND MINERALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: HUGO NEU SCHNITZER EAST (CO) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



862 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: DIPLOMACY; 
POWELL, IN EUROPE, NEARLY DISMISSES U.N.'S IRAQ REPORT

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER and ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell came close to dismissing a crucial United Nations report on Iraq weapons today on the eve of the report's publication, and said the United States would go to war against Iraq alone if its divided European allies would not join the fight.
 While Mr. Powell promised that the Bush administration would study the findings of the report when it is submitted on Monday, he indicated that it would be useless to give the weapons inspectors more time. 
 Bringing the case for military action to a deeply skeptical audience of political, business and religious leaders at a conference in the Swiss Alps, Mr. Powell said Saddam Hussein of Iraq had "repeatedly violated the trust of the United Nations, his people and his neighbors." He renewed an administration contention that Mr. Hussein had ties to Al Qaeda terrorists. Excerpts, Page A8. 
His remarks at the conference, the annual World Economic Forum, deepened a sense of inevitability among people here about a conflict. Speaking after Mr. Powell, King Abdullah of Jordan said the prospects for a peaceful resolution were fading.
"We are a bit 'too little, too late' to see a diplomatic solution," said the king, whose land borders Iraq. "Let us hope that whatever happens between Iraq and the international community is as quick and painless as possible."
Though the United States had hoped to forge a consensus among its allies, Mr. Powell said, the lack of a coalition would not deter the Bush administration. "When we feel strongly about something, we will lead, we will act, even if others are not prepared to join us," he said.
By promising to study the report and consult with other members of the Security Council before acting, the secretary made a modest concession to the qualms of Europeans about what many here describe as Washington's stampede toward war.
But he also recited a litany of failures and unanswered questions in Iraq's cooperation with the inspectors, who have been looking for biological, chemical and nuclear weapons in Iraq for two months.
"To those who say, why not give the inspection process more time, I ask, how much more time does Iraq need to answer these questions?" Mr. Powell said.
"We're in no great rush to judgment tomorrow or the day after, but clearly time is running out," he said. "We will not shrink from war if that is the only way to rid Iraq of its weapons of mass destruction."
Mr. Powell's speech is part of a campaign by the White House, culminating in President Bush's State of the Union address on Tuesday, to rally public opinion at home and abroad. While the secretary did not produce new evidence of Iraqi weapons, he insisted that the burden of proof was on Mr. Hussein, not the inspectors, to give an accounting of Baghdad's munitions.
Administration officials declined to say what time line they have in mind for a decision about any invasion.
European diplomats suggested that they would continue to press for more time for the inspectors. Speaking on the ABC News program "This Week," Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign policy chief, said that if Hans Blix, the head of the chemical and biological weapons inspection team, asked the Security Council for more time when he submitted his report on Monday, he should get it.
"I don't think that we are talking about an infinite amount of time," Mr. Solana said. "Time has been given to Saddam Hussein before. So we are talking about a question of weeks, perhaps months."
Speaking on French television, the French foreign minister, Dominique de Villepin, called for an extension of the inspections for "several weeks, or for a few months."
Asked for evidence to back up Mr. Powell's assertion that Mr. Hussein has "clear ties" to Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups, Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff, said on "Fox News Sunday" that the Iraqi leader "has had a history of a relationship with terrorist organizations in the past, and it would be horrible if his weapons of mass destruction got into the hands of terrorists."
Mr. Card was asked on another program, the NBC News "Meet the Press," about reports that the United States was prepared to use nuclear weapons if need be against Iraq. He answered, "Should Saddam Hussein have any thought that he would use a weapon of mass destruction, he should anticipate that the United States will use whatever means necessary to protect us and the world from a holocaust." 
Even as the administration struggles with its allies, it is also facing pressure at home to go slow in confronting Iraq. 
Mr. Powell's speech did little to change the view of the Democratic leadership in Congress that Mr. Bush is acting in "a very precipitous way," as Senator Tom Daschle, the minority leader, put it today on the CBS News program "Face the Nation."
There was little indication that Mr. Powell had changed the minds of people at the World Economic Forum, which assembles a rarefied fraternity of government leaders, business executives and other notables. The audience applauded the loudest for those who rose to condemn American policy.
Still, at a meeting marked by relentless antagonism toward Washington, Mr. Powell offered a muscular, unapologetic and at times emotional defense of the nation's exercise of power.
"I don't think I have anything to be ashamed of, or apologize for, with respect to what America has done for the world," he said in response to a question asking why the United States always falls back on the use of "hard power" instead of the "soft power" of diplomacy.
Mr. Powell noted that the United States had sent its soldiers into foreign wars over the last century, most recently in Afghanistan, without having imperial designs on the territories it secured.
"We've put wonderful young men and women at risk, many of whom have lost their lives," he said, his voice growing hoarse. "We've asked for nothing but enough land to bury them in."
At other moments, his tone was more conciliatory. He acknowledged the split between the United States and two key European allies, France and Germany, which last week said they would oppose military action now. Mr. Powell likened it to the bumps in a marriage.
"One or two of our friends, we have been in marriage counseling with for over 225 years nonstop," he said. "And yet the marriage is intact, remains strong, will weather any differences that come along."
Still, the speech laid bare stark differences in how Europe, Arab nations and the United States view the threat from Iraq.
King Abdullah said he was "concerned that we are being diverted onto another track" by the crisis in Iraq, distracting attention from the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as the main hurdle to regional peace.
That theme was taken up by Prince Turki al-Faisal al-Saud, a member of the Saudi royal house, who said American policy -- seen in the Arab world as pro-Israel -- was the principal reason for Arab hostility toward Washington.
A poll of the audience conducted during a panel debate found that 81 percent believed a war with Iraq was inevitable. Fifty-six percent said it would drag on for six months and ignite urban warfare in Baghdad.
Earlier, the former archbishop of Canterbury, George Carey, confronted Mr. Powell, saying the American insistence on military power had created "a credibility gap of trust in American politicians, and it's a very grave problem."
A Dutch banker, Hubertus Heemskerk, seemed to speak for many in the audience when he challenged Mr. Powell to produce evidence of Iraq's transgressions before going to war. 
"I think the evidence is there, the evidence is clear," Mr. Powell replied. He said the United States would present more evidence of Iraqi weapons programs "in the days and weeks ahead." 
The White House may not be helped by the International Atomic Energy Agency, which assisted in weapons inspections in Iraq, and said today that it would not produce a "smoking gun" in its report.
Mr. Powell, however, argued that Security Council Resolution 1441 placed the onus on Iraq to "come clean" by disclosing its weapons, rather than obliging the inspectors to root out arms in a country "the size of California." 
"This is not about inspectors finding smoking guns," he said.
The British head of Amnesty International, Irene Khan, was applauded when she questioned whether the Iraq threat "risks provoking a massive humanitarian and human rights catastrophe."
Mr. Powell said the United States was "sensitive to the plight of the Iraqi people, not only in case of conflict but also right now."

GRAPHIC: Photos: King Abdullah of Jordan speaking at the Davos forum yesterday.; Iraqi soldiers guarded United Nations headquarters in Baghdad yesterday as inspectors inside prepared to head out for visits to possible arms sites. (Photographs by Associated Press)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); ACCOUNTING (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); BURDENS OF PROOF (63%); EVIDENCE (61%); MOUNTAINS (55%); RELIGION (55%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; PUBLIC OPINION; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); AL-QAEDA (83%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%) UNITED NATIONS; AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) LANDLER, MARK; COWELL, ALAN; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); ABDULLAH (KING) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); ALPS (57%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (95%); IRAQ (95%); JORDAN (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%) IRAQ; JORDAN; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



863 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2164 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: STRATEGY; 
Serving Notice of a New U.S., Poised to Hit First and Alone

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
One year after President Bush declared Iraq to be part of an "axis of evil," the United States appears ready to carry out its new doctrine authorizing pre-emptive attacks on hostile states and terrorists who represent potential threats to the United States.
 While the Bush administration would prefer to have the broad support of United Nations Security Council members before it invades Iraq, it put the world community on notice today that it is fully prepared to act on its own. 
 "Multilateralism cannot become an excuse for inaction," Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said today, referring to the uphill battle to achieve a consensus at the Security Council. 
He later added, "We continue to reserve our sovereign right to take military action against Iraq alone or in a coalition of the willing."
The United States has long reserved the right to strike first to defend American troops and territory against imminent threats. But experts say the pre-emption policy is remarkable for several reasons. 
Since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, the Bush administration has turned pre-emption from an option into a cardinal principle of its foreign policy. It has also made the case for pre-empting threats that are not immediate, but merely prospective, as in the case of Iraq.
Importantly, the administration has talked about pre-emption in a very public way. Pre-emption is no longer a contingency to be discussed behind closed doors, but is advertised in strategy documents, proclaimed in presidential speeches and noted on the White House Web site.
Senior Bush administration officials emphasize that pre-emption is just one of several ways to cope with terrorist threats and the dangers posed by the spread of nuclear, biological and chemical arms. They say the doctrine is needed to deter potential adversaries from developing weapons of mass destruction and to reassure the American public, shaken by the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, that the government will protect them.
"The 9/11 attacks gave Americans a sense for the first time that they are vulnerable, and they have an expectation that their government will take action to reduce and eliminate threats," said a senior administration official.
"There is also a deterrent element for the bad guys," the official added. "And quite frankly we have to tell the rest of the world community that the world is different, that this is going to require some new measures and that they are probably going to have to act pre-emptively, too."
But the doctrine has many critics, Republicans as well as Democrats. However the Iraq issue is resolved, they say the administration's very public declarations that it has the right to initiate military action has exacerbated the strains between the United States and its allies, particularly because it comes amid unease over the unilateralist streak in administration policy and the United States role as the world's sole military superpower.
"It is not clear to me what advantage there is in declaring it publicly," said Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser who served the first President Bush, said of the pre-emption policy. "It has been common knowledge that under some circumstances the U.S. would pre-empt. As a declaratory policy in tends to leave the door open to others who want to claim the same right. By making it public we also tend to add to the world's perception that we are arrogant and unilateral."
Zbigniew Brzezinski, President Jimmy Carter's national security adviser, said the doctrine might "stimulate excessive anxieties" about American policy. 
"The image you get of America in the polls abroad is an America that is admired for what it is domestically but increasingly viewed with apprehension for how it conducts itself internationally," Mr. Brzezinski added. "I don't think that is good. I am a great supporter of American power. We are the essential element of global stability. But our power is not so enormous that we can afford progressively to lose the element of legitimacy of that power."

The Precedent
Echoing Ideas Of Another Time
The principal themes in the Bush administration's national security strategy echo arguments made by staunch conservatives a decade ago.
When Vice President Dick Cheney was defense secretary during the administration of the first President Bush, his aides drafted a document, known as the Defense Planning Guidance, which included many of the provocative themes that the current administration has embraced. The Cheney aides involved in the effort included Paul D. Wolfowitz, now the deputy defense secretary; I. Lewis Libby, now Mr. Cheney's chief of staff, and Zalmay Khalilzad, now the White House envoy to the Iraqi resistance.
The draft document argued that the United States should be prepared to use force if necessary to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons. It argued that the goal of American policy should be to maintain United States military primacy and discourage the emergence of a rival superpower. It argued that military coalitions should not necessarily be based on formal alliances but rather on ad hoc assemblies of nations, a practice that meant Washington would not necessarily be bound by the view of its allies.
The draft document stimulated an intense debate when its existence became known, and Mr. Cheney's aides rushed to tone it down.
"The ideas were seen as controversial because they were coming from the Defense Department," one United States official recalled. "And Bush senior was not too comfortable in thinking in those kind of terms."
It was far from clear during the 2000 election campaign that the administration of George W. Bush would revive that agenda. Condoleezza Rice, the president's national security adviser, even argued during the campaign that if Iraq and North Korea developed weapons of mass destruction they could be deterred.
"If they do acquire WMD weapons of mass destruction their weapons will be unusable, because any attempt to use them will bring national obliteration," she wrote in an article in Foreign Affairs in 2000.
Several factors seem to have accounted for the change. As president, George W. Bush and his top aides have turned out to be more conservative than his father and his advisers.
The attacks of Sept. 11 have also transformed American policy. Mr. Bush developed a more aggressive strategy for contending with threats to the United States and gave hard-liners in his administration a fresh opportunity to press their old agenda of ousting Saddam Hussein.

The Changes
Efforts to Pinpoint And Prevent Threats
Mr. Bush's first State of the Union address was an early sign of the impending changes, casting Iraq, Iran and North Korea as part of an "axis of evil," nations whose pursuit of weapons of mass destruction made them a "grave and growing danger."
Mr. Bush followed with a speech at West Point in June in which he argued that deterrence and containment were no longer adequate and vowed to "take the battle to the enemy."
The more elaborate expression of the doctrine is in the administration's National Security Strategy, issued in September. The initial draft was prepared by the staff of the National Security Council but rejected by Mr. Bush, who insisted on a document that would more directly reflect his own principles and which would be in his own voice. 
"Sept. 11 has had a transforming effect on people's thinking," a Bush administration official said. "There is a recognition that in this new era you need to do more beforehand, that it is much better to be proactive to prevent threats from emerging. What the strategy document does is provide a framework for planners and foreign policy."
The document made clear that pre-emption was just one way of dealing with potential threats, but it gave more weight to it than before. It emphasized the need for taking "anticipatory action" even if there was some uncertainty about the timing of the enemy's plans. 
Experts say Mr. Bush was not talking just about pre-emption in the narrow sense, when an attack seemed imminent, but of the possibility of preventive war to stop threats before they materialize.
In the case of Iraq, Bush administration officials have justified the threat to invade on the grounds that it is implementing United Nations Security Council resolutions. Some have argued that Iraq is, therefore, not a case of pre-emption but an effort to enforce the will of the international community.
But experts say the spirit of the pre-emption policy is driving the Bush administration's Iraq policy. A full-scale invasion and occupation of Iraq is not the only way to enforce the United Nations resolutions and, as Mr. Powell made clear today, the administration is prepared to act in the face of allied objections and without the explicit authorization of the Security Council.

The Debate
Differing Views Of Deterrence
As the United States has begun military preparations for an attack on Iraq, the pre-emption policy has fueled a wide-ranging debate. One major argument for the policy, administration officials say, is the possibility that a state like Iraq might give weapons to terrorists, who would use them to attack the United States. 
A devastating attack might be carried out, but United States authorities would not know who sponsored it. So, the only way to ensure that the United States is defended to is go to the source: the weapon-producing state itself. 
"Containment and deterrence goes back to an era when the only use of force we worried about was one in which the use of force could be directly associated with a country, and that country had an address," Mr. Wolfowitz said. "The whole thing that terrorists introduce is that you not only do not see the threat coming but you do not know where it came from."
Critics, like James B. Steinberg, the deputy national security adviser to President Bill Clinton, say Iraq and other countries would be taking a huge risk by giving such weapons to terrorists because the plot might be uncovered. As a result, they say, there is no reason to think they would not continue to be deterred.
In an October letter to Congress, the Central Intelligence Agency said Iraq was unlikely to sponsor a terrorist attack in the United States with weapons of mass destruction as long as the United States did not attack it.
Another argument for the policy is that by using the threat of force to compel Iraq to disarm voluntarily or taking military action against Baghdad if it refuses, Washington will deter hostile states from pursuing weapons programs or supporting terrorists.
"Whichever way it comes out, disarming Saddam of his weapons of mass destruction, demonstrating to people who are trying to follow in his tracks that the world will ultimately cause you to fail, is a very good demonstration," Mr. Wolfowitz said.
Critics say the administration has undercut that message by declaring a policy that is too sweeping.
The administration, they say, has targeted Iraq because it is weak militarily but has all but ruled out force in the case of North Korea, which the C.I.A. says probably has one or two nuclear weapons. Nor is the administration threatening Iran, which is trying to develop nuclear weapons but is caught up in an internal debate over its policy toward the West. The doctrine of pre-emption, they say, applies to only one of the three "axis of evil" states. 
"I think one of the mistakes associated with the articulation of the policy is the very fact that it was made a policy," said Joseph P. Hoar, a retired four-star Marine general and the former head of the United States Central Command. "Pre-emptive strikes have always been a possibility for the U.S. government. It is just that it was never made a declaratory statement of policy."
"I am sometimes concerned that the neo-conservatives in Washington are very quick to play the military card," General Hoar added.
Responding to criticism that it has put too much emphasis on pre-emption, Ms. Rice emphasized in an October speech that Washington had understood from the start that pre-emption could only be undertaken with great caution. The speech came at a time when the United States was striving to mobilize support in the Security Council for its Iraq policy. 
"The number of cases in which it might be justified will always be small," Ms. Rice said of pre-emption during the speech. "It does not give a green light to the United States or any other nation to act first without exhausting other means, including diplomacy. Pre-emptive action does not come at the beginning of a long chain of effort. The threat must be very grave."
As Mr. Bush prepares for his second State of the Union address, however, officials have signaled that the administration believes it is at the end of that chain in the case of Iraq and is prepared to shed the mantle of multilateral action if it must and act alone.
As Mr. Powell said today, "We will not shrink from war if that is the only way to rid Iraq of its weapons of mass destruction." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HIJACKING (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); ARMED FORCES (69%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) ;UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (86%) GORDON, MICHAEL R; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003 



864 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: CORRESPONDENT'S NOTEBOOK; 
Hard Times: The Arts vs. the Iron Fiscal Fist

BYLINE:  By JOHN ROCKWELL 

 BODY:
Peter B. Lewis recently exercised his philanthropic muscle by threatening Thomas Krens, the director of the Guggenheim Museum, with the loss of his job unless he sharply cut his budget. That bold move has been applauded not only by corporate hard-liners but also by the art establishment and the art press. The feeling seems to be that Mr. Krens, apparently disliked for his expansionism, his arrogance and his curatorial taste, has been put in his place.
 But others argue that Mr. Lewis crossed the line that properly separates boards from administrators. If he did, he has a lot of company these days, here and abroad, at institutions supported by public and private money. 
 There is no question that Mr. Lewis has the leverage to turn his wishes at the Guggenheim into reality. And he may yet have the ability to force the resignation of the board of trustees of Case Western Reserve University in his hometown, Cleveland, which he has sought to do by withholding further gifts to a wide range of local arts and educational institutions that he previously supported. 
Mr. Lewis is chairman of the Guggenheim board and has been its most generous benefactor. He had already given $50 million and pledged $250 million to the now abandoned Frank Gehry museum building in Lower Manhattan. Once Mr. Krens fell into step with his chairman's marching orders, Mr. Lewis gave another $12 million to sort out the museum's deficits. But Mr. Krens remains on notice.
Although Mr. Lewis's tough love, as he has described it, might seem an extreme case of nonprofit board activism, it is by no means isolated. There is always someone -- a board, politicians, state fiscal watchdogs -- looking over the shoulders of the artistic and administrative leadership.
A hardly comprehensive list of recent examples in which governing boards have taken aggressive action includes: Nicholas Payne's forced resignation as director of the English National Opera in London, Udo Zimmermann's resignation as director of the Deutsche Oper in Berlin, the decision not to renew Simone Young's contract as music and artistic director of Opera Australia in Sydney, David A. Ross's departure from the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, William Forsythe's angry resignation from his Frankfurt Ballet and Christoph Marthaler's dismissal as director of the Zurich Theater (since rescinded, but Mr. Marthaler must boost attendance).
Every case was different, but all reflect concern for the financial health of institutions that the board translated into firings or forced resignations or insistence on budget cuts resisted by the artistic leadership to the point of resignation.
This list doesn't take into account the many ways in which artistic or administrative directors have been forced to cut costs and compromise their ambitions at the behest of their boards, like the recent cutbacks and canceled repertory at the Chicago Lyric and San Francisco Operas. Short of the cancellation of previously announced operas or exhibitions, this kind of board pressure seems so routine or so embarrassing to the staff directors that it often isn't reported. Sometimes the administrators have so internalized the boards' concerns for fiscal responsibility that they make cuts without prompting.
Arts institutions are usually known to the public by the personality of their staff leadership. Often that leader is an artist, or one who shapes artistic policy: it was George Balanchine's New York City Ballet, with Lincoln Kirstein hovering in the administrative background and a shifting panoply of board chairmen and presidents now forgotten. It was Kurt Masur's New York Philharmonic, until the board forced him out.
But whether the staff leadership is artistic or administrative, as with Joseph Volpe at the Metropolitan Opera now, it must still report to and establish a relationship with a board. Such balances of power shift with the giddy rises and vertiginous falls of capitalist economic cycles. It's a lot easier for a hard-nosed board to tolerate a leader like Mr. Krens, with his bold expansionist ideas, when the money flow seems endless. (Remember fantasies about the Dow at 40,000?)
In good times or bad, there is always a relationship that must be maintained and cultivated by both sides. Sometimes staff leaders can enlist a few key board members who believe in them and support them through every crisis and cyclic curve. One thinks, for example, of the San Francisco Opera and Kurt Herbert Adler, its longtime general director in the 60's and 70's, and his support from his board chairman Robert Watt Miller. Sometimes the board leader is so powerful and sophisticated that he or she really runs the institution: indirectly, through personally chosen staff leadership, or even directly, as Bruce Crawford did at the Met as chairman, then general manager, then chairman again. (He is now chairman of Lincoln Center.)
In bad times, however, without the steady hand of a Miller or a Crawford, board members can get nervous: they have ultimate responsibility for the financial health of the institution; it's their watch and their fiduciary responsibility. If they begin to fear that some combination of poor management or risky artistic policies or falling attendance and donations threatens the very life of the institution, presumably they are forced to act.
But how? Mr. Lewis's threats represent a rarely invoked extreme. Behind-the-scenes pressure seems a more civilized way of handling things, without the grandstanding, along with fiscal common sense from the artistic side.
In this country boards are generally made up of wealthy people who have earned or inherited their money. A business mentality prevails. If capitalism's down cycles are a self-purging mechanism, allowing corporations to lay off workers, stem union demands, trim costs and -- if bankruptcy is declared -- escape creditors, then a similar mentality often seems to prevail on nonprofit boards.
What conclusion can be drawn from this eternal square dance between the powers of money and the powers of art? Artistic directors can't be slaves to money, but they can't be defiantly unrealistic, either.
Subsidy is not entitlement, but neither is a board position. Board members come into their positions not as rewards for long-ago family donations or merely because they've been successful. They have a responsibility to their communities and to their institutions to balance the budget but also to present the best work of which the artistic leadership -- leadership they hired -- is capable. Ultimately attendance will rise and donations increase if the public is excited by the art.
To be sure, there has to be a place for common business sense to halt excess, to staunch financial hemorrhaging or to forestall such a crisis before it occurs. Mr. Lewis clearly felt he'd arrived at just such a place at the Guggenheim and at Case Western. But hard times should also be an occasion for a board, once satisfied that the staff is doing the best it can administratively and artistically, to dig deeper into its own pockets.
Tough love can be just that: love as reality, not illusion. But sometimes it can be, or seem to be, arrogant and mean and philistine. I am not speaking here of Mr. Lewis's actions, but of a tendency that always creeps into the open during hard times.
Boards lose faith in the visions of the leaders they once hired to have those visions. If upon proper reflection they decide that the visions are no longer feasible, then maybe better to fire the leadership or force it to resign. But more often than not, renewed support and reflection and compassion serve an institution better than toughness, loving or otherwise. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); THEATER (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); MUSIC (66%) CULTURE; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS; FINANCES; ART 

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM (NYC) 

PERSON: ROCKWELL, JOHN; KRENS, THOMAS; LEWIS, PETER B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



865 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2250 words

HEADLINE: Even in the Age of Prozac, Some Still Prefer the Couch 

BYLINE:  By ERICA GOODE 

 BODY:
Four days a week, Rachel H. takes the subway uptown, waves to the doorman in the large prewar apartment building where her psychoanalyst keeps his office, lies down on a burgundy leather couch and begins to talk.
 Ms. H., a 33-year-old graduate student, has heard all the jokes. She has listened patiently to friends who tell her she would be better off taking Prozac or trying yoga or leaving New York altogether to escape her obvious "dependency" on her analyst. She has endured teasing and incredulity. "Don't you think that's so last century?" asked one woman. 
 Yet Ms. H. is not bothered by this lack of enthusiasm. 
After spending six years and about $60,000 on analysis, she says, she is less self-destructive, more responsible, more productive and more successful in her work. She has more compassion for others. She understands, in ways that have grown more layered and complex, her own strengths and limits and those of the people close to her.
In the last quarter century, psychoanalysis has been declared dead many times over. Psychoanalysts, once dominant in psychiatry, now stand on the sidelines of a field where drug treatments and brief forms of talk therapy are the rule. Thanks in large part to Woody Allen, Freud's talking cure has become shorthand for costly self-indulgence with no obvious benefit. And many psychiatrists barely hide their disdain for what they regard as an outmoded approach to treating mental disorders.
Yet thousands of Americans -- it is not known exactly how many -- continue to seek out psychoanalysis. Like Ms. H., they believe that the arduous, uncertain and often emotionally painful dissection of mental life such treatment entails offers something they can find nowhere else.
"Obviously I think it's an incredibly valuable thing that I'm doing. Otherwise, why would I do it?" said Ms. H., who spoke on the condition that her last name not be used out of concerns for her privacy.
"You have to see things for what they are, and I think that's essentially all that it's about," she said. "It's about lifting the veil, seeing relationships and seeing yourself, so that you can begin to make choices that will not lock you into an unhappy future and an unhappy life."
In its heyday in the 1950's and 1960's, psychoanalysis attracted a wide swath of the intellectual elite, along with many middle class patients who, backed by generous health insurance plans, were referred to psychoanalytic treatment as the best psychiatry had to offer. 
Experiences on the couch, good or bad, provided routine fodder for dinner parties. And the language of classical psychoanalytic theory -- the unconscious, the Oedipus complex, the superego and the id -- became firmly embedded in the culture.
Yet most psychoanalysts now acknowledge that analysis was practiced far too broadly and that its effectiveness, particularly as a treatment for severe mental illnesses like schizophrenia and manic depression, was greatly oversold.
"Many analysts thought that psychoanalysis was the treatment of choice for virtually every mental disorder," said Dr. Kerry J. Sulkowicz, the chairman of the public information committee for the American Psychoanalytic Association, which held its winter meeting in New York last week. "We've learned that that's not the case."
Today, pharmacology and focused, short-term psychotherapies predominate in the treatment of mental illness. Psychoanalysts are more cautious about whom they will treat on the couch. And those who seek their help represent a far smaller and more select group.
According to a survey conducted in 2001 by the psychoanalytic association, analytic patients in the United States are typically well educated, well-off financially, white and 30 to 50 years old. Some are mental health professionals, trying to understand themselves better in order to better help their patients. But business people, artists, writers, academics and others also find their way into analysis.
Many have tried other forms of talk therapy and have been dissatisfied with the results. Some have taken, or continue to take, antidepressants or other psychiatric drugs and have found that while helpful, the medications have not solved their problems in forming intimate relationships or in avoiding destructive behavior patterns. Still others remain stubbornly committed to the notion that their emotional difficulties are rooted in the unconscious rather than in the ebb and flow of brain chemicals.
"I had this really strong conviction that my problems were psychological, and I wanted to deal with them psychologically," said Patrick Cody, 40, a communications consultant in Washington who spent 10 years in analysis, which he sought out after experiencing depression and severe panic attacks.
In an era of managed care, most patients pay out of their own pockets for their treatment, which typically involves three to five sessions a week, at fees varying from $10 a session at a psychoanalytic training clinic to more than $200 a session at a Park Avenue practice.
But time is often a bigger issue than money.
"I don't have a problem with patients' affording fees," said Dr. Henry Bachrach, a researcher and analyst at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute. "But I can't get to see them four times a week, because I can't ask them to give up their livelihood."
Hollywood portrayals to the contrary, studies suggest that few people enter analysis for casual reasons.
In a 2002 survey of 342 American analysts conducted by Dr. Norman Doidge, an assistant professor of psychiatry at the University of Toronto, most said that many of their patients in analysis suffered from multiple longstanding psychiatric disorders like anxiety, depression, sexual dysfunction and pervasive personality problems.
About 80 percent of the 940 patients reported on in the survey had received other treatment before analysis. Eighteen percent were taking psychiatric medication.
At the same time, three-quarters of the analysts' patients were steadily employed at the start of analysis, Dr. Doidge found. And they were mentally tough enough to survive the rigors of treatment on the couch -- an experience that bears some similarity to immersion in a sensory deprivation tank and that Dr. Bachrach described as "putting you on the stove and turning up the heat."
Psychoanalysis itself has undergone profound changes in the last decades.
In Argentina, France, Germany, Finland, Canada, especially in Quebec, and other countries, Freud's legacy continues to thrive. Psychoanalysts are held in esteem and patients are plentiful. In some cases, the cost of psychoanalytic treatment is underwritten by national insurance.
But in the United States, the scientific and economic events that have transformed psychiatry have squeezed psychoanalysts to the margins. Most analysts' caseloads include only a few full-fledged psychoanalytic patients, the rest arriving once or twice a week for less intensive psychotherapy. The American association, the largest of the psychoanalytic organizations, counts roughly 3,500 members, 700 of them in New York. The average age of the association's membership is 62.
Once rulers, analysts now more often find themselves supplicants, mounting public relations campaigns to improve their image and reaching out to attract more candidates for psychoanalytic training and to forge better relationships with other psychiatric disciplines.
This is not always an easy battle, as was evident in the focus groups assembled as part of a "strategic marketing initiative" undertaken by the association in 2000. Asked to describe their psychoanalyst colleagues, the mental health professionals who participated in the groups used adjectives like "arrogant," "elitist," "uninvolved," "cultish" and "insular."
The public was no more helpful. Freud's name still rang a bell. But the marketing effort found that the only thing most Americans knew about psychoanalysis was that it took a long time and that it involved a couch. Asked what kind of mental health professional they might look to for treatment, no one mentioned an analyst.
Still, much of the tarnish that clings to psychoanalysis derives from an earlier time, when rigid neo-Freudian orthodoxy was the rule.
"I think there's been a shift in the last 15 years," said Dr. Robert Galatzer-Levy, an analyst in Chicago. "There was a time that if people deviated from whatever was at that point standard, they risked being thrown out of the analytic community."
Now, Dr. Galatzer-Levy said, "the ideas get heard, they get discussed, they get debated, they are often integrated with one another."
In fact, few analysts these days adhere to a strict Freudian model, though most subscribe to the basic tenets of psychoanalytic theory, including the importance of unconscious fantasies and conflicts, the influence of childhood experiences, the centrality of the relationship with the analyst as a replaying of other important relationships in the patient's life.
Most talk to their patients, rather than sitting silently. Many are willing to divulge information about their personal lives: whether they are married, for example. Many exercise eclecticism in treating patients, drawing upon different theoretical perspectives. And many endorse the use of medication, in some cases prescribing it themselves.
At one time, analysts were required to have medical degrees. But social workers, psychologists, art therapists and other mental health professionals have now joined the ranks of those who pursue the four years of training or more that becoming a psychoanalyst requires.
At its best, Dr. Galatzer-Levy said, what analysis has to offer is change that is far deeper than what may be achieved in the 6 to 20 sessions of therapy covered by most insurance plans, change affecting "the way people think and feel about things, the way they act in the world."
Some of that change may take place after the last psychoanalytic session has ended.
In one of the first tightly controlled studies of the effectiveness of psychoanalytic treatment, Dr. Peter Fonagy, a professor of psychoanalysis at University College London, found that adult patients with borderline personality disorder, given psychoanalytic treatment in a partial hospital setting, showed significantly more improvement than a control group that received no formal psychotherapy.
But Dr. Fonagy also found that the patients receiving psychoanalysis continued to improve in the 18 months after the treatment, progress he believes occurs "when you face new problems and you are then able to deal with them in a superior way."
Patients who have had good experiences in psychoanalysis also describe substantial personal growth.
For Mr. Cody of Washington, the fruit of his treatment has been emotional maturity, he said, a lessening of fear, a greater ability to control his emotions, an ability to laugh off criticism where he once would have rankled.
In his analysis, Mr. Cody said, there were "periods of great stagnation but also periods of great benefits."
"There would suddenly be one session where things popped open," he said. "Every time that happened, I'd say, 'That's worth $3,000.' "
Ms. H. said that in the course of her sessions on the couch she had examined every aspect of her life, from her fears of abandonment to her perfectionism to her repetitive dreams of running through city streets to save her brother from an attack by urban guerrillas.
She has learned, she said, that "the truth is mutable, the story changes."
"You might hold your parents responsible for some of your unhappiness and then later on that becomes incredibly unimportant," she said.
Yet Mr. Cody and Ms. H., like many others in analysis, have moments of doubt and disillusionment, and lingering questions that may never be fully answered: How much growth would have taken place anyway, with time and life experience? How much of what has been accomplished in 10 years could have been accomplished in 4 or even 2?
Dr. Doidge, in his survey, found that the average length of analysis was 5.7 years.
In an address to the psychoanalytic association last week, Dr. Owen Renik, a training analyst at the San Francisco Psychoanalytic Institute and Society, said that keeping patients in analysis "for years or even decades" when no improvement was taking place represented an egregious -- and common -- ethical violation by psychoanalysts.
"Too many analysts keep too many patients too long in treatment in the absence of any evidence that it's helping," Dr. Renik said later in a telephone interview.
Analysts, he added, often rationalize why they are keeping a patient in treatment, but actually may be delaying the end of the analysis out of a desire for financial gain, an unwillingness to admit defeat or other unconscious motives.
Those whose time on the couch has been less than positive could add other breaches to the list: Analysts so psychologically damaged themselves that they make their patients worse, not better. Analysts who allow the transference to become a pseudo love affair that replaces relationships in the real world. Analysts who are unable to admit their mistakes.
Dr. Bachrach of the New York institute said it was no surprise that analysis could cause damage.
"If it can do a lot of good, it can also do a lot of harm," he said.
Yet in a world of quick fixes and glib explanations for human behavior, analysis still symbolizes a commitment to complexity and deeper understanding.
"It is a question of values," Dr. Bachrach said, "of what you want and what you expect out of life."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Time is often a bigger obstacle than money in analytic treatment, said Dr. Henry Bachrach, an analyst. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. F9) Chart: "On the Couch"In one survey conducted in 2001 by the American Psychoanalytic Association, 950 psychoanalysts from 36 states answered general questions about 2,791 of their patients. GENDER56% FEMALE44% MALE ANNUAL INCOME10%: UNDER $40,00030%: $40,000 TO $100,00060%: OVER $100,000 AGE15%: 29 AND YOUNGER24%: 30 TO 3931%: 40 TO 4922%: 50 TO 598%: 60 AND OLDER REASONS FOR REFERRAL TO THERAPIST50%: RELATIONSHIP PROBLEMS18%: WORK/SCHOOL6%: GRIEF26%: OTHER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIDEPRESSANTS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (73%); YOGA (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%) MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; PSYCHOANALYSIS 

PERSON: GOODE, ERICA; BACHRACH, HENRY (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



866 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: DESIGN REVIEW; 
A Goal for Ground Zero: Finding an Urban Poetry

BYLINE:  By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
Sometimes we actually do acknowledge poets to be legislators of the world. One of those rare moments may be here. As early as tomorrow, officials of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation are expected to choose one or two designs for the next phase of planning the future of ground zero. What if the decision were up to you? 
 Which poet would you choose? What design, if any, attains the level of poetry in the ancient Greek sense: the connective tissue that binds stray pieces of memory, experience and anticipation into a civilization's fabric? What rhyming couplet might even transcend the separation of death? 
 Public officials will be criticized no matter what they decide. People protested the Eiffel Tower, too. If it were up to me, I would pick the pair of latticework towers proposed by the Think group. It is a work of genius, a towering affirmation of humanism in modern times. 
The Think team -- whose principals include Shigeru Ban, Tokyo; Frederic Schwartz, New York; Ken Smith, New York; and Rafael Vinoly, New York, and as consultants, Arup, London; Buro Happold Engineers, Bath, England; Jorg Schlaich, Stuttgart, Germany; William Moorish, Charlottesville, Va.; David Rockwell, New York; and Janet Marie Smith, Baltimore -- have titled their proposal the World Cultural Center.
It calls for two frameworks of steel lattice to be erected in approximately the same locations as the original towers. The new structures would straddle the footprints of the old towers without touching them, to respect the sacral dimension of the two squares. They would form the infrastructure for a vertically organized complex of cultural and educational buildings, including a conference center, concert hall, library and an interpretive museum about the events of 9/11.
The towers have a Jack and the Beanstalk quality, as if they linked the earth to an aerial world high above. The individual buildings of this sky city would be designed by different architects. The plan also designates four areas as potential sites for one or more separately designed memorials: two below ground level, contained within the footprints, and one in each tower at the penthouse level. The framework itself appears made up of stars connected at their points: symbols of birth or resurrection.
This is a work of abstraction. It does not impose literal meanings on the viewer. Yet implicitly it embodies the theme of metamorphosis. From towers of steel, the World Trade Center has shifted shape, first into towers of light and now into towers of air. Memory is their invisible structural core. The exposed metal framework of the two structures evokes the origins of tall building design in engineering works of the 19th century. They suggest that the urban center, too, is changing shape, still in transition from the industrial city of a century ago to today's cultural crossroads. The towers themselves would be integral to this progress. They would help lift New York out of the provincialism that has afflicted its cultural life in recent decades.
I agree with those who feel that New York would gain by restoring the totemic image of the twin towers to the skyline, if not in their original form. Think's proposal is the only one of the new designs that would accomplish this. Perhaps for that reason, a nighttime rendering of the project has been the overwhelming preference of foreign newspapers and magazines. Perhaps they are trying to tell us something.
Concept, however, not image, drives Think's design. The plan's fundamental strategy is to secure investment in the public realm during the limited period that federal dollars will be available to rebuild Lower Manhattan. The towers themselves would be for noncommercial uses. In the present era of architectural tourism, however, it is reasonable to assume that they would benefit New York's economy.
Construction would be phased, starting with the two tower structures, the memorial and new parks. Commercial development would be added around the perimeter of the site as the market demands. But the elevation of the public realm is the design's most emphatic statement.
It is a powerful polemic to make at a time when city planning and civic amenities have become increasingly privatized. Making the concept work would be a challenge, especially in an era of heightened concern for building security. New circulation systems would have to be devised to ensure public access and prevent the towers from becoming fortresses.
But this is a legitimate challenge for the city to take on at this moment in urban history. And it is a cultural challenge as well as a technical one. Think's design recognizes a need for new forms of social space amid urban density. Let's go up there and see what they might look like, the design proposes. What have we got to lose but our boredom?
One of the greatest strengths of the Think project is its potential to expand the concept of culture to include the public realm. Too often, especially in urban developments, "culture" is shorthand for some consumerized version of high art: a museum, a concert hall. In the contemporary city such boundaries don't hold up. Infrastructure is culture. Engineering is culture. So are sustainable design, street life, the expectant atmosphere in airports, the work of window dressers and especially the relationships among these overlapping categories of experience.
The thresholds between public and private space; the transitional areas between transportation systems; the irregularities in the cityscape that occur where, for example, Broadway slices through the Manhattan grid: these are part of a city's spatial texture. There is no reason to believe that cities have exhausted their potential to realize new types of public space. Who says landscape since Olmsted has to be all downhill? Why can't it go up, up, up?
The beauty of the matrix idea is that the building's program is not locked into a particular set of uses, so it can evolve. Think turns into an asset what had been considered a handicap for the teams working on this round of designs: the lack of a real client with the authority to prescribe a specific program and the power to make it stick.
The Think group claimed much of that authority for itself. But it has paid close attention to wishes expressed by the survivors of the attack, the families of those who were lost, the local community and the public at large. More important, the design is sufficiently flexible to include, in institutional form, the educational process that has been unfolding globally for the last 17 months. If this plan moves forward to the next stage of development, the architects and public officials should begin by analyzing this extraordinary story. Then they should build upon it. 
Like Wall Street, or the Pentagon, ground zero is a metonym. Initially its meanings were almost strictly emotional: shock, anger, fear and pain. Soon the connotations began to expand. The term now signifies a complex pattern of actions undertaken by individuals and groups around the world who seek to comprehend the deeper historical meanings of 9/11. This pattern has become a phenomenon in itself. It recalls an idea that in the 20th century was called the open university or the museum without walls: a network of learning, a free-floating space open 24/7 and accessible to all. The price of admission is curiosity, periodically boosted by the desire to survive.
The topic is "Globalization and Its Discontents," to borrow the title of a book last year by the economist Joseph E. Stiglitz. It is as complex and diffuse as the communication that sustains it. Educating ourselves about globalization is a poetic undertaking. We are seeking to make coherent pictures from pieces of history, science, economics, art and politics circulating through the atmosphere since the end of the cold war.
The ground zero design process has also been an adventure in public education. Last year many New Yorkers learned what a building program is. People learned to recognize retrograde architectural aesthetics as a byproduct of cultural isolationism. They learned how to derail an official design process that was headed toward disgrace.
By rights, the official design process might have embraced the task of educating the public in the larger issues of globalization. The process might even have taken on the task of educating the officials responsible for running it. Better late than never. These two learning tracks have now converged. The public has, in effect, created the program for ground zero. It has created a school. 
Think has created a schoolhouse: an open, flexible framework to support the pursuit of ideas. The framework itself is an eloquent statement of the values that should guide that pursuit. We are an open, modern, enlightened, humanistic democracy, these soaring structures announce. And we can do even better than retaliate against attack by enemies. Each time we look up at the sky, we can remember that our values are more resilient than theirs.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A computer rendering of the Think group's proposal for the World Trade Center site. (Think/Stan Ries Photography)(pg. E1); The Think group's proposal for a transportation center along Greenwich Street, which would include a system of subway mezzanines. (Think)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POETRY (90%); WRITERS (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); TERRORISM (63%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP; THINK (CO) 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (75%); GERMANY (71%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



867 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: ON THE GROUND: In Tokyo; 
Clean Streets and Subways That Run on a Schedule

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

 BODY:
So you're not going to Shanghai.
 Tokyo may not have China's buzz. But it is the locomotive for an economy that accounts for more than half of Asia's economic output, and it is a world center of fashion, cuisine, design and consumer electronics. 
 Signs may look like hieroglyphics to visitors, but Tokyo has immaculate streets and subway trains are so dependable they come and go according to printed schedules. Even late at night, in the worst part of town, it would take considerable ingenuity for a visitor to be mugged.

AIRPORT
Compared with the dazzling new airports of Seoul and Hong Kong, NARITA AIRPORT looks, well, like bellbottoms and sideburns. Its claim to a superlative is that it charges the world's highest landing fees.
But Narita works. As the main port of entry to Japan, its two terminals handled a record 24.5 million travelers last year. Immigration and baggage handling work so predictably well that within an hour of landing a new arrival can be in the bowels of the airport, boarding a train for Tokyo Station. Taking the Narita Express train is the simplest and only reliable way to get downtown in one hour. At a cost of about $25, it also avoids that hard-to-explain $170 cab fare from the airport, a receipt that will flash like a big red bulb over an expense account.
Narita's distance from Tokyo makes a two-hour flight to Seoul stretch into a seven-hour pilgrimage, when measured from hotel door to hotel door. So bring along a lot of reading material or laptop battery power.

HOTELS
A two-minute walk from the red- brick Tokyo Station is a new business hotel alternative, the TOKYO AT MARUNOUCHI FOUR SEASON HOTEL (011-81-3-5222-7222, $415 to $1,017). In a downtown lodging scene dominated by mastodons, this 57-room gem opened last fall, occupying six floors in a glass-sheathed high rise. Its gray stone, dark wood and minimalist decor evoke the elegant style of a Manhattan boutique hotel, but without the attitude. The triple-paned windows let guests forget they are in the heart of one of the world's largest cities. The French-Japanese fusion cuisine draws many outsiders to EKKI (5222-7222, $175 for dinner for two with wine and service charge included), the house restaurant on the seventh floor. (Calls to Tokyo from the United States must be preceded by 011-81-3; phone numbers have eight digits.)

RESTAURANTS
"If you are a foodie, Tokyo is paradise," said Andrew Smithers, a British economist who has been coming here for 35 years, as he settled into a sushi lunch recently with friends at a private upstairs room in SHIMADAZUSHI (3501-0411, $150 for lunch for two). "Not only is the Japanese food better than anywhere else, but it is probably true of the French and the Italian as well. Standards here are superb."
He described a lunch that was a discreet parade that started with usuzukuri (white fish sliced thin like carpaccio), then square cuts of dark red tuna, then octopus, blue fish and sushi, all washed down with cold beer or hot green tea. "An English guest thought the tuna was so delicious that he burst into tears," Mr. Smithers recalled. "The mama-san was not surprised in the least. She thought that was the proper response."
Situated in the Nishi-Shinbashi district, about a 10-minute walk from the Imperial Hotel, Shimadazushi is best found by calling the restaurant and having a map sent by fax.
For a noisy food spectacle, try INAKAYA (3405-9866, $200 for two with beer -- and don't forget to call for the map) in the Roppongi entertainment district.

ENTERTAINMENT
For a downtown visitor, the simplest entertainment is to walk out your hotel door. Stroll around and through the Imperial Palace gardens. At mealtime, walk along the edge of the elevated JR line. Below the tracks is a long succession of noodle shops, beer dives and French bistros. At any hour, walk the Ginza, Japan's upscale shopping district, to ogle the latest fashions, the store window displays, the pulsating electronics and the elegantly turned out Tokyo residents.
After sunset, businessmen traditionally make beelines to hostess bars, establishments concentrated in, by descending order of price, Ginza, Roppongi and Kabukicho. For a price, scantily clad young women will engage in -- talk. If you find it degrading to pay a woman to laugh at your jokes, keep in mind that the formula has proved so successful that about 100 "host" bars have opened in Kabukicho, catering to Tokyo's affluent professional women. Whether you are male or female, once your backside sinks into the soft velour cushion, an invisible meter starts running.

LOCAL LORE
Despite the business gloom hanging over Japan, Tokyo boasts one obvious sign of dynamism. This year twice the annual average of commercial real estate comes on the market. As this horizontal city goes vertical, the building crane could be the municipal bird.
O.K., Shanghai probably has more.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A remote-controlled train runs past a new office block in Tokyo. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); TRAINS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); AIRPORT OPERATION (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (69%); IMMIGRATION (53%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (51%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%) EAST CHINA (90%) JAPAN (93%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%) TOKYO (JAPAN); JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



868 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: ON THE ROAD; 
In-Flight Selling of Food Gets High Marks in Test

BYLINE:  By Joe Sharkey; On the Road appears each Tuesday. E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
I THINK I've seen the future of airline food in the coach cabin, and guess what: It ain't too bad. 
 As was noted in this space three weeks ago, two airlines, America West and Northwest, decided to test the idea of selling food on flights that no longer offer free meals. Other major carriers, with the possible exception of Continental Airlines (which maintained most in-flight free-meal service when competitors cut back or eliminated theirs last year), are considering a similar move, or toying with alternatives like selling food at gates. 
 America West conducted the most extensive testing over a three-week period that ended Sunday on a total of about 250 of its flights out of Phoenix. The first week's selection was snack boxes for $3. The next week, hot lunches and breakfasts were offered for $5. Last week, they rolled out a hot dinner menu for $10. 
On a flight from Phoenix to Raleigh-Durham, N.C., last Wednesday, Joette Schmidt, the vice president for customer and in-flight service at America West, happened to be sitting in a coach seat across the aisle from me. She was poring over a thick stack of survey forms filled in by passengers who had been asked to evaluate the experiment.
"Over all, we know one thing at this point, that we have customer acceptance on the concept," she reported. "The surveys are overwhelmingly positive. Even if they didn't purchase a meal on a particular flight, over 80 percent indicated that they would in the future."
Yes, I know there are people out there saying: "Honey, get a load of this baloney! Airlines used to give you meals for free; now they're charging for them, and claiming that customers like the idea." 
Yet it appears to be true. Among the reasons are that a good number of passengers evidently dislike purchasing take-out food in the airport and lugging it through security and onto the plane. Also, some passengers evidently dislike even more the prospect of airplane cabins becoming redolent with the sights, smells and spills of other people's take-out favorites. Further, many passengers understand that advance-purchase domestic air fares are as low as they can go, that airlines continue to lose billions a year, and that free full-meal service in domestic coach seats is not likely to return.
"We heard from so many customers that they don't have the time" or the desire to buy food in airports to carry on, Ms. Schmidt said. "They're saying, 'We understand airline economics; we want you to stay in business; we want you to keep our ticket prices low, so just give us the option to buy something on board.' "
On my four-hour flight to Raleigh, I had the chicken Kiev, which came on a china dish with a baked potato, green beans, a tomato and mushroom salad, bread sticks and a big Cadbury chocolate bar. The other choice was beef tenderloin, with comparable accompaniments. Now, I'm no food critic, but I do know the difference between good grub and granola, and I'm here to tell you that the America West $10 dinner was better than any meal I've had in a first-class seat on a domestic flight in the last 18 months. 
According to the passenger surveys, those who opted to buy the America West meals liked the food. Among those who did not buy, many said they would if they had known about the option in advance. Others wanted more selections, including cheaper dinner prices, and perhaps a kid's meal. Some said that paying by credit card would be good. One guy just wasn't happy at all, however. "Serve only cold food! The plane stinks like a lousy diner from the hot meals," he scrawled on his form. 
To my surprise, none of the America West flight attendants I spoke to at airports or on the plane expressed a complaint. "At first I thought I was going to be embarrassed selling food, but the passengers liked it so much that it was no problem," one said. Another was relieved that take-out packaging might be reduced. A women's soccer team recently brought pizzas on a flight, "and we could barely find a place to stack the empty boxes," she said. The for-sale meals fit on the standard food cart, and the dishes and trash can be stowed easily, another said. 
No one really knows yet whether this idea will actually fly on a wide scale. Northwest will continue its food-sale tests through Feb. 15, on 12 flights a day (out of a total of 1,500), said Kurt Ebenhoch, a spokesman. Northwest's test-menu items, like America West's, are prepared by LSG Sky Chefs, the big airline caterer, which has been aggressively promoting the idea. Caterers have been badly hurt as airlines eliminate meals on many flights.
America West executives are evaluating the passenger response and the logistical questions, Ms. Schmidt said. Can the system handle expanded selections, or will the limited menus be enough? Can credit cards be processed on board? Is there a way to let customers buy meal vouchers when they book reservations without making it look like some kind of back-door fare increase?
If the airline decides to approve the idea, "it will probably be a phase-in, with simple items first, 45 days or so forward," Ms. Schmidt said. There is no rush, she added. 
"The traveling public, particularly the frequent traveler such as the business traveler, realizes right now that airlines need to be focused on core competencies, such as, let's get you there safely, on time, and hopefully with your luggage with you. They're saying, 'Do that; give me value for what I pay for.' Anything else, like food, is a customer-service option." 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); TICKET SALES (66%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA WEST AIRLINES 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%)

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (70%); DURHAM, NC, USA (55%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



869 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Are Tempting Taiwan By Dangling Economic Fruit 

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 27 

 BODY:
Chinese officials have stepped up their charm offensive against Taiwan in recent days, dangling the fruits of closer economic ties and muffling their threat to bring Taiwan back to the motherland by force. 
 On Sunday, in a step described here as encouraging but minor, a charter plane from Taiwan landed in China for the first time in 53 years, to ferry Taiwanese businessmen home for the Chinese New Year holidays. But in accordance with Taiwan's restrictions on direct links, the plane had to detour and touch down in Hong Kong en route, wasting several hours of flying time. 
 In a special briefing for reporters today, a Chinese official said that China's recent stance toward Taiwan was "extremely moderate" and that "stabilizing the situation in the Taiwan Strait" was vital to China's broader goals of improved ties with the United States and economic progress. 
China's friendlier tone reflects an emerging view among scholars here that so long as Taiwan can be dissuaded from declaring independence, which could mean war, time may be on Beijing's side. Taiwan's once robust economy has faltered in the last few years, and its growth appears to be increasingly linked to the mainland. Chinese officials hope that closer economic and personal links will gradually lead to a political accommodation similar to the "one country, two systems" formula applied to Hong Kong when it rejoined China but kept a separate form of local government.
The Chinese official briefing foreign reporters called for new talks, by nongovernmental or business groups, to work out direct trade and communications links between Taiwan and the mainland. 
Leaders in Taiwan claim to favor such ties, which are increasingly demanded by Taiwanese companies as their investments in China surge. But the officials have been reluctant, concerned for the military security of Taiwan and worried that its de facto independence could be engulfed by the growing mainland economy.
The Chinese officials said the greatest threat to peace and to progress in Chinese-American relations was the "creeping independence" being pursued by Taiwan's president, Chen Shui-bian, and pro-independence "fundamentalists" on his flank. 
Stressing the potential windfall to Taiwan if it relaxes its commercial restrictions, the official noted that cross-strait trade had ballooned to more than $40 billion a year, with a huge surplus for Taiwan.
More than 60 percent of Taiwan's overseas investment is now on the mainland, the official said, adding that Taiwanese now make more than 3 million trips to the mainland each year and that at least 300,000 Taiwanese, mainly business managers, now live there. 
"It really is unfair to the business community that they can't travel back and forth directly," the official said, adding that "China wants to have the earliest possible breakthrough" with transport links and has repeatedly offered to put aside political questions and treat this as an economic and technical issue. 
Chinese officials now realize that a more conciliatory stance toward Taiwan plays better in the United States, where a significant group in the Republican Party still favors a hawkish, anti-Beijing policy on Taiwan.
Beijing officials warn that large American arms sales to Taiwan and cooperation in training and communications between the American and Taiwanese militaries could sour Chinese-American relations as well as increase tensions with Taiwan.
China will not forswear the right to use force to prevent Taiwan's formal independence. But for now, Beijing's main strategy is the all-out pursuit of economic ties, the official said today, describing it as a "win win" policy that will enrich Taiwan as it furthers the cause of reunification. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (74%); TRENDS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%) CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TAIWAN; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%) TAIWAN; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



870 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
MEMO PAD

BYLINE:  ByJOE SHARKEY 

 BODY:
Phone Surcharges Top Complaint List
The biggest complaint front-desk clerks hear at check-out time? Howls about telephone surcharges, says Wyndham International, the hotel chain.
 Wyndham has reintroduced an offer that gives new members of its ByRequest guest-loyalty program free local and long-distance phone calls within the 48 contiguous United States, free high-speed Internet access, and free faxes and photocopies. Guests who enroll in the program and stay at any Wyndham hotel before June 30 qualify for the benefit, which then continues indefinitely. Local and domestic long-distance calls and faxes are unlimited; there's a limit of 25 photocopies a day. 
 Fred Kleisner, the company's chief executive, said that the benefit was considered a radical idea when Wyndham first introduced it early last summer for new and existing members of its loyalty program. Enrollment in ByRequest is available at www.wyndham.com and is free.

American Express Expanding in China
Proof that business travel to, from and within China is growing rapidly: American Express has opened a business-travel center in Shanghai and is planning another one in Guangzhou to provide travel services to multinational and local companies operating in China. Business travel spending in China is now $4 billion to $5 billion a year, American Express estimated. "We believe this market will continue to enjoy double-digit growth annually in the next five years," said Charles Petruccelli, president of American Express Global Travel Services.

Times Remain Tough For Domestic Airlines
December's air travel statistics show what a tough time airlines are still having, two years after their revenues began falling with a souring economy in early 2001 and nearly 18 months after the terrorist attacks that further hobbled the industry. 
Average domestic air fares declined 1.6 percent during the month, said David Swierenga, the chief economist for the Air Transport Association, the airline trade group. For the full year, he said, fares were down 15 percent and passenger traffic was down 8 percent over 2001.

State Department Issues Travel Alert
With war talk in the air, the State Department issued a worldwide alert Saturday advising Americans abroad to be prepared for possible emergencies and to keep passports and other important travel papers readily at hand. It is posted at www.travel.state.gov. JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); AIRLINES (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (73%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (70%); AIR FARES (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); STATISTICS (64%); WAR & CONFLICT (63%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (63%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); AMERICANS ABROAD; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (90%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WYNDHAM INTERNATIONAL INC; AMERICAN EXPRESS CO; AIR TRANSPORT ASSN; STATE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (90%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (53%) SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS; 

PERSON: SWIERENGA, DAVID; SHARKEY, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (87%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (70%) GUANGDONG, CHINA (72%); EAST CHINA (70%); SOUTH CHINA (55%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) CHINA; SHANGHAI (CHINA); GUANGZHOU (CHINA); IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



871 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Sales of Existing Homes Set Record LastYear 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan 28 

 BODY:
Sales of previously owned homes increased 5.2 percent in December, helping to push their sales in 2002 to the highest level on record, the National Association of Realtors said today.
 The housing market thrived even though the American economy, knocked back by the 2001 recession, struggled to regain a solid footing and suffered through uneven growth. 
 An estimated 5.56 million previously owned homes were sold in 2002, topping the record of 5.30 million reached in 2001, the association reported. 
"Housing remains one of the sole pillars of strength for the U. S. economy," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Bank of America Capital Management. "Consumers remain willing to undertake longer-term commitments in terms of purchases of both autos and homes." 
Sales of previously owned homes rose to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.86 million last month. The annualized rate reflects the number of homes that would sell if the same number of sales in one month continued for 12 months.
"Exceptionally low mortgage interest rates are the primary factor in record levels of home sales," said David Lereah, chief economist at the National Association of Realtors. 
Low mortgage rates encouraged many people to buy homes last year or refinance those they owned. Another factor motivating home buyers was solid appreciation of housing values. That offers people attractive investment, especially given the turbulent stock market, economists said.
The national median home price last year was $158,300, up 7.1 percent from 2001. The 7.1 percent increase was the largest annual increase since 1980, when the median sales price increased 11.7 percent. 
Sales in the West rose 7.5 percent in 2002 from the previous year, to 1.49 million. In the Midwest, sales rose 4.9 percent, to 1.22 million, and in the South, sales went up 4.1 percent, to 2.2 million. In the Northeast, sales increased to 653,000, a 2.4 percent rise from 2001. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXISTING HOME SALES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%) HOUSING; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (93%) NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%) SIC5192 BOOKS; 

PERSON: DAVID LEREAH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



872 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Would End S.U.V. Tax Break in State 

BYLINE:  By WINNIE HU 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 27 

 BODY:
Even as he announces plans this week to expand some tax breaks for small businesses, Gov. George E. Pataki will propose taking away at least one: a provision that allows business owners and the self-employed to claim sizable deductions for buying giant sport utility vehicles.
 In his annual budget address on Wednesday, Governor Pataki will call for closing what he calls a loophole that has let doctors, real estate agents and others buy vehicles like Hummers and Ford Excursions, then take a tax break intended mainly for farmers. 
 "Eliminating this loophole is an issue of fairness and good policy," Mr. Pataki said in a statement.
The tax break applies to vehicles weighing more than 6,000 pounds when fully loaded, like Hummers, a line of S.U.V.'s based on the Humvee military transport. The law was intended to benefit small businesses that used trucks and vans for farming, construction and hauling. The Bush economic plan seeks to increase tax deductions for those who buy the vehicles.
Under Mr. Pataki's proposal, nonagricultural businesses in New York that claim the deduction for such a passenger vehicle on their federal tax returns would be required to restore the deduction to their state income statements and pay the state tax on it, a spokeswoman for Mr. Pataki said. The change could apply in the fiscal year that begins on April 1, 2004, if the Legislature approves it, the spokeswoman, Lisa Stoll, said.
A small business owner, for example, who buys a Hummer H1 -- one of the largest and most expensive S.U.V.'s, with a base sticker price of $102,581 -- could claim the purchase as a deduction on his federal income tax return. But under the new law, he would have to pay the state tax on that amount, Mr. Pataki's aides said. That would mean an additional $1,000 in state taxes, they said.
Mr. Pataki's aides said that the proposal would raise up to $2 million a year in new revenue, a small amount for a state facing a $12 billion cumulative budget gap for this year and next.
But environmentalists cited other benefits, such as ending an incentive for buying vehicles that burn more fuel and pollute more.
"It's encouraging people who would not normally buy these gas guzzlers to buy them because it seems cheaper," said David Friedman, a senior analyst with the Union of Concerned Scientists, a nonprofit environmental group in Cambridge, Mass. "It's increased our oil dependence and the amount of money that small businesses are paying for gas."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (65%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (56%) TAXATION; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; SMALL BUSINESS 

PERSON: HU, WINNIE; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



873 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Steadfast in His Turban, A Lawyer Raises Awareness 

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: NEWARK, Jan. 27 

 BODY:
When guards at Brooklyn's Metropolitan Detention Center demanded last September that a Newark lawyer let them search his turban before being admitted to visit a client, they may have not have known much about the traditions of his Sikh faith. 
 "To a Sikh, removing his turban in public is the same as a strip-search and as intrusive as asking a woman to remove her blouse," said the lawyer, Ravinder Singh Bhalla. 
 But Mr. Bhalla knew quite a bit about the traditions of American law. Born in New Jersey of immigrant parents and educated at the University of California, the London School of Economics and Tulane University Law School, he knew his rights and was not afraid to list them, one by one. 
There was his First Amendment right to practice his religion, including the ritual public wearing of the head covering, he told the guards. Then he expounded on his Fourth Amendment right against unreasonable searches, since he had already passed through the metal detector without setting off alarms. Finally there was his client's Sixth Amendment right to the attorney of his choice -- a right that could be exercised only if Mr. Bhalla forfeited his own rights.
Mr. Bhalla refused to remove his turban, and the guards refused to let him in. But on Jan. 17, the Federal Bureau of Prisons issued a clarification of its search policy, after Mr. Bhalla asserted all of these rights in Federal District Court here, before the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Justice in Washington and, armed with letters of support from a host of Sikh groups, directly to the Bureau of Prisons hierarchy.
Dan Dunn, a spokesman for the bureau, said that religious garments like turbans, prayer shawls or yarmulkes need not be considered part of the routine searches of personal effects that prison guards must make of visitors. They could be searched, he said, if there is a "reasonable suspicion that the person is about to engage in or is engaging in criminal activity."
What Mr. Dunn described as a simple clarification of policy is being hailed as a milestone by Mr. Bhalla and others. They say that by treating searches of religious garments as distinct from other personal-effects searches and subjecting them to stricter requirements, the agency is recognizing their intrusiveness.
"This marks a significant improvement in agency policy," said Harpreet Singh, the director of the Sikh Coalition, an amalgam of groups representing the nation's estimated 500,000 Sikhs. The group was founded just after Sept. 11, 2001, when many Sikhs found themselves the objects of suspicion at airports and elsewhere.
Since the terror attacks, he said, his group has won concessions from the federal Department of Transportation on airport security searches of Sikhs, given the faith's prohibitions against removing turbans, as well as the requirement among the more devout that they carry a "kirpan," or dagger. 
Under the revised procedures, turbans will not be searched unless there is a positive reading on a metal detector. For their part, Sikh groups have agreed that it is legitimate to require those carrying daggers to secure the items in their checked luggage.
"But the broader significance of all of this is that we are educating a broader range of people about Sikhs and our rights," Mr. Singh said.
Sikhism, a monotheistic religion, dates back to the 15th century in the Punjab region of what is now India. Its doctrine has evolved through a succession of prophets or gurus, and in an atmosphere of persecution by the larger numbers of Hindus and Muslims in South Asia. One of Sikhism's main requirements is that adherents not cut their hair, which is considered a visible testament to their connection with their creator.
Mr. Bhalla said many people mistakenly believe that the Sikh turban is a hatlike garment molded in one piece. It is actually a long swath of cotton, 3 feet by more than 15 feet, which takes Mr. Bhalla 15 minutes each morning to fold and carefully wind onto his head.
In taking on Mr. Bhalla at the gates of the Metropolitan Detention Center, guards may have picked the wrong person, said Gerald Krovatin, a New Jersey criminal lawyer in whose firm Mr. Bhalla works. Mr. Krovatin said that last November his colleague was one of the founding members of the national Sikh Bar Association and the only one among the estimated 50 Sikh lawyers in the country who is a criminal litigator.
Mr. Bhalla, 29, is also the lawyer handling a lawsuit brought by a Sikh graduate of the New York City Police Academy who was denied permanent employment as a policeman because he refused to shave his beard and cut his hair.
Perhaps the seminal moment for Mr. Bhalla came in a federal courtroom in Newark when he was just 13. He and his father were attending a hearing for two Sikh community leaders whom the United States attorney's office was trying to extradite to India as suspected terrorists.
Mr. Bhalla recalled that SWAT teams and snipers were stationed outside the court, and plainclothes agents shadowed his and his father's every step because the judge and the prosecutor had reported receiving death threats. It turned out that the prosecutor in the case was the one sending the death threats, apparently in an effort to heighten the sense of danger. 
Mr. Bhalla said the incident taught him how "ridiculous" stereotyping and prejudice could be.
"Right now Sikhs are going through some of the same things that African-Americans went through, and like them we are learning the importance of having some political power and knowing how the system works," he said. "But we are just starting."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ravinder Singh Bhalla shows that his turban is not a hat. Now the Bureau of Prisons agrees. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (90%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (90%); PRISONS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); METAL DETECTORS (89%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (63%); AIRPORTS (62%); TERRORISM (60%) PRISONS AND PRISONERS; SIKHS (SECT); DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; SEARCH AND SEIZURE; APPAREL; JEWS; RELIGION AND CHURCHES 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF PRISONS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); TULANE UNIVERSITY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE FEDERAL BUREAU OF PRISONS (54%) BUREAU OF PRISONS 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD; BHALLA, RAVINDER SINGH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



874 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2525 words

HEADLINE: Closed or Not, Indian Point And Its Perils Won't Vanish 

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

DATELINE: BUCHANAN, N.Y., Jan. 24 

 BODY:
Two weeks after a state-sponsored report said emergency planning was inadequate to protect residents from an extensive radioactive release from the Indian Point nuclear plant, four nearby counties have come to the same conclusion and refused to certify the evacuation plan required by federal officials to keep the plant in operation.
 Gov. George E. Pataki faces a Friday deadline to certify the same plan. As that day approaches, opponents of the plant here, 35 miles north of Midtown Manhattan, feel they are closer than ever to achieving something never before done: persuading the federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission to force the permanent closure of an operating nuclear plant. 
 In fact, with the press of a button, technicians can drop carbon rods down inside the nuclear reactors at Indian Point, ending the splitting of atoms and the generation of electricity. 
Despite the widespread post-9/11 security concerns that have made Indian Point the subject of enormous anxiety across New York's northern suburbs, its future is dependent on a complicated web of safety and economic issues, with or without the possibility of a calamitous terrorist attack.
Even if the plant stops generating energy, it will remain the repository for tons of spent radioactive fuel, which must be stored and protected at great cost, and will remain a potential terrorist target for the forseeable future. 
Ending electricity generation at the plant, which provides at least 10 percent of the entire state's power, could carry enormous costs. Although the plant's opponents question the most severe predictions by the owner, the Entergy Corporation, even they agree that the public may pay more for power and experience shortages during peak periods if the plant stops producing. 
In addition, Entergy, based in New Orleans, which bought Reactor 3 at Indian Point from the New York Power Authority in 2000 and Reactors 1 and 2 from Con Edison in 2001, is already suggesting that if the plant is shut down it may file lawsuits to recoup the $1 billion or so it spent to buy the reactors and the hundreds of millions more it has paid for security and upgrades.
"It could be lawsuit city," said a spokesman for Entergy, Jim Steets.
Mr. Pataki's aides have been reviewing the report, which was done by James Lee Witt, a former director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, as the governor prepares for his decision on the evacuation plan. Even if he does not endorse that plan, however, the plant would not close immediately. 
But opponents say that withholding approval would give a vital boost to their efforts through legal and administrative channels to get the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to shut down the plant. 
Alex Matthiessen, executive director of Riverkeeper, an environmental organization leading the effort to close the plant, said removing a grave danger to the public would be worth the consequences of closing the plant. What is needed is the political will to act, he said, adding that the financial effect would not be as dire as Entergy has asserted.
"It depends on whether we are serious or not about doing it, closing it down," he said, "but it is completely doable."
In any case, New Yorkers will be living with the plant for many years to come, whether it is running or not. 
"It is not as simple as flipping off the switch," said Peter A. Bradford, a former member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
Reactor 1 opened in 1962 on the site of the former Indian Point Amusement Park, a destination for day-trippers on the Hudson River. It was one of the earliest commercial nuclear reactors and was built by Consolidated Edison to help keep up with the surging demand for electricity that accompanied the explosive growth of suburbia after World War II.

A Radiation Legacy
Con Edison closed Reactor 1 permanently in 1974 because it lacked an emergency cooling system for the reactor core, which the Nuclear Regulatory Commission required for continued operation.
And there it sits. Most of its spent fuel was shipped to a reprocessing plant in West Valley, N.Y., about 35 miles south of Buffalo, which was eventually closed because of safety concerns. About 35 tons of Reactor 1's radioactive fuel remains at Indian Point in a pool that is leaking about 25 gallons a day. 
Entergy and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission say the water is being recovered in a drain and reprocessed and is not a hazard to the public. 
No spent fuel from Reactor 2 or 3 has ever left the property. About 900 tons of the used radioactive fuel is submerged in water treated to prevent nuclear reactions in the 40-foot deep pools, which sit largely underground in a metal building next to the containment domes that house the reactors. 
Essentially, the fuel has no place to go, so completely shutting down Indian Point and removing its radioactive material remains impossible. 
Since the late 1950's, the federal government has been seeking a place to dump highly radioactive nuclear waste. It has designated a remote desert site in Yucca Mountain, Nev., but does not plan to open it until perhaps 2010, and the State of Nevada has filed a legal challenge.
"Spent fuel is one of the least certain of the problems needing to be solved," said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester County Democrat and a leader among those seeking to close the plant. "I am not frankly sure what is best to do with it."
The option preferred by many people who want to see Indian Point closed permanently is to store the waste in what are known as dry casks, thick reinforced-concrete containers. 
Entergy already plans to move some of the spent fuel next year into such casks because it is running out of space in the pools. 
Riverkeeper and several elected officials have advocated moving all the spent fuel into dry casks if the plant is closed and decommissioned -- the process of dismantling it -- although some fuel would remain in the pools for five years so that it could cool enough to be transferred to the casks.
Mr. Matthiessen, of Riverkeeper, suggested storing the waste in 10 to 20 casks buried underground on the Indian Point site. 
"It would be more defensible" in a terrorist attack, he said, "and the consequences of an attack would be less severe."
Entergy, however, believes that such talk gets well ahead of the game.
It plans to fight any attempt to decommission the reactors and would argue that either the state or the federal government would have to foot at least a sizable portion of the decommissioning costs, which the regulatory commission has estimated would exceed $1 billion.
Every nuclear plant must maintain a decommissioning trust fund and make payments to it each year until the plant's 40-year operating license expires. (Reactor 2's license expires in 2013, and Reactor 3's in 2015, though Entergy has said it will seek a 20-year extension for both.) By then, in theory, the fund should have enough money to cover the costs of decontaminating and dismantling the plant.
About $650 million has been collected for all three reactors, according to a 2001 report to the regulatory commission, the most recent available.
If the owner closes a reactor before the license expires, the license-holder must pay the difference between the money in the fund and the cost of decommissioning. What happens if the commission forces an owner to close, however, remains legally unclear. 
Entergy has also said it would seek reimbursement for the "hundreds of millions of dollars" it invested for security and for improved equipment, as well as some if not all the money it spent to buy the plant. It acquired the reactors for nearly $1 billion, with an up-front payment of more than $300 million. 
"Entergy has put in hundreds of millions of dollars in this plant," said Larry Gottlieb, an Entergy spokesman. "Who is paying us back for that?"
Assemblywoman Sandra Galef, a Democrat whose district includes the plant, said she was concerned that if Entergy is financially weakened, its decommissioning work might be shoddy.
Ms. Galef said she opposed an immediate shutdown partly because Buchanan, which she represents, relies on the plant for 95 percent of its tax base. Many of the 1,500 workers at the plant also live in her district.

A 2,000-Megawatt Void
She has also expressed doubts about replacing Indian Point's power, an issue that has engendered yet another debate.
Indian Point sells much of its 2,000 megawatts of power to Con Edison and the New York Power Authority for distribution to some two million homes and businesses.
Reactor 2 feeds Con Edison, and Reactor 3 serves the power authority, which in turn distributes electricity to municipalities and most of the government buildings in New York City and Westchester. It provides the power for the subways and Metro-North commuter trains and La Guardia and Kennedy airports.
Entergy and Mr. Witt's report say Indian Point provides 20 percent to 40 percent of the electricity for New York City and its northern suburbs.
The question of what would happen if those 2,000 megawatts were lost has fed an argument between Entergy and those who want to shut the plant. The two sides have produced conflicting reports about whether the electricity could be made up and at what cost.
What is known is this: New York's demand for electricity has been rising while the supply has been stagnant. The New York Independent System Operator, the nonprofit organization that runs the state's power grid, has said the city alone will need 2,000 to 3,000 additional megawatts by 2005.
State regulators have approved proposals for several new conventional power plants, but construction has been delayed by financing problems resulting from the weakened economy and the scandal over the energy company, Enron.
An analysis in May by the Independent System Operator said closing the Indian Point reactors would diminish the reserve of electricity it maintains to guard against blackouts from unexpected plant shutdowns, unanticipated demand and routine maintenance.
If New York lost Indian Point, the analysis said, existing constraints on the transmission system meant that the state would still be able to import power only from New England, and that it might not be able to acquire enough electricity to maintain the full reserve, which is supposed to be at least 18 percent of the projected peak demand for a given year.
When New York set a record for demand on Aug. 9, 2001, it came dangerously close to exhausting the reserve.
The Independent System Operator also calculated that if Indian Point were not operating, wholesale electricity prices would increase 35 percent to 100 percent, but probably closer to 35 percent in a single year.
"It's a competitive market, and like any market, if you take supply out, prices go up," said Ken Klapp, a spokesman for the Independent System Operator, which has not taken a position on whether the plants should be closed.
Mr. Klapp said he could not predict how an increase in wholesale prices would affect the average customer bill because the rate structure varies widely among utilities and among residences and businesses.
Mr. Matthiessen said the average increase for consumers could be limited to 5 percent to 8 percent during the high-demand summer months if the state adopted stringent conservation measures. In addition, he said, a report Riverkeeper commissioned from an energy consultant indicates that the state's and the city's forecasts of their power needs were outdated because they were made before the economy turned sour, and also do not factor in the additional power that new plants will eventually supply.
Entergy fires back by saying long-term power projections must be considered because the economy eventually will improve, bringing with it a resurgence of building projects, which will include the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan. Mr. Gottlieb said it would be dangerous to shut Indian Point on the assumption that the new plants will be built in the next several years, given the delays that are already occurring.
One option suggested by Andrew J. Spano, the Westchester county executive, and some lawmakers is for the county to acquire Indian Point and convert it to a natural gas plant. The county has set aside at least $300,000 for a feasibility study of that proposal, though it is unclear whether that would be enough to complete the study.
Mr. Spano estimated the purchase and construction costs of such a conversion at $2 billion to $3 billion, at least twice the amount of the county's annual budget, and said the study would address where the money would come from.
Entergy steadfastly says it will not sell. It has put its faith in federal regulators and, if necessary, the courts to block any attempt to close Indian Point.
"If there is no reason to have the license removed, then certainly you have the right to question that in a court, because that is where most things end up," Mr. Gottlieb said. "Entergy has good reason to believe we are being falsely accused of a crime we never committed, because there hasn't been a crime."

Commission Has Final Say
The ultimate decision on shutting the plant rests with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which has ordered plants closed temporarily because of safety concerns, but it has never canceled a license over something like the perceived inadequacy of evacuation plans.
The commission's regulations give it wide latitude, even in the case of emergency planning. For instance, even if it determines that an evacuation plan is inadequate, the commission can give the plant owner an opportunity to show that the plan is actually adequate or that it can address the problems. The commission can also let the owner offer "other compelling reasons for continued operation."
Those who have watched the commission for years remain skeptical that it would ultimately withdraw Entergy's license over emergency planning, in part because of consequences to New York City's power and the precedent such action might set for the nation's 101 other working reactors; some of them also sit in heavily populated areas, though none are in an area as dense as Indian Point's surroundings.
"You can have hostile takeovers, but I don't think you can have a hostile decommissioning," said David Lochbaum, a nuclear engineer at the Union of Concerned Scientists, a watchdog group that has been critical of safety at the plant. 
Joan Aron, a former regulatory commission official, was more emphatic.
"I see no possibility of the N.R.C. closing the plant on emergency grounds," said Ms. Aron, the author of "Licensed to Kill? The Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Shoreham Power Plant" (1998, University of Pittsburgh Press), on the stillborn Shoreham nuclear plant on Long Island. "I don't think they would even consider it because they conduct emergency planning exercises once a year, and I think they are very satisfied with the way they go."
Opponents remain firm in saying there is widespread support for closing it down. Since 9/11, there have been public hearings and denunciations of the plant by a wide range of lawmakers, interest groups and residents.
"The earthquake of the last 10 days has coalesced public opinion," Mr. Brodsky said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Indian Point reactors, on the Hudson in Buchanan, N.Y., are surrounded by homes. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) Map of New York shows the location of Indian Point power plant: The first Indian Point reactor, built in 1962, is no longer in use. (pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (93%); POWER PLANTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); TERRORISM (90%); DISASTER PLANNING (90%); CLOSINGS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); NUCLEAR WASTE (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%); LITIGATION (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PLANT CLOSINGS (58%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; INDIAN POINT NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (NY); SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); TERRORISM; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ATOMIC ENERGY; NUCLEAR WASTES 

COMPANY: ENTERGY CORP (84%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (83%) RIVERKEEPER (ORGN); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION; ENTERGY CORP 

TICKER: ETR (NYSE) (84%); ED (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%)

PERSON: ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) BUCHANAN (NY); NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



875 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Israeli Voters Putting Security Issues First 

BYLINE:  By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: QIRYAT MALACHI, Israel, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
It was a sunny, breezy, beautiful day, but only a handful of people walked the central shopping area here.
 Stores were dark, because they had gone out of business, casualties of the worst economic crisis in Israel in 50 years, or had not bothered to open, given how pointless the exercise would be. 
 Lethargic men in hushed cafes complained that they had nowhere else to go.
"If we had something better to do, believe me, we'd be doing it," said Yaakov Elfasi, 54, as he played a conspicuously sluggish game of backgammon. Mr. Elfasi lost his job a year ago and had no lines on a new one. 
A younger man nearby waved a clump of lottery tickets, saying: "This is our economic situation. This is what we do."
With the rash of violence in Israel, a steep drop in tourism and other economic problems, times are tough, and it is hard to find anyone in this southern town, hit especially hard by the setbacks, with much optimism.
But it is also hard to find anyone who wants to punish Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. He and his Likud Party seem poised to prevail in the parliamentary elections on Tuesday.
"Sharon is cool," said Yossi Cohen, 30, Mr. Elfasi's backgammon partner, who, like him, is unemployed. "He's going to strike at the Arabs, and you've got to have somebody who's going to strike at the Arabs."
In Israel, unlike many other relatively wealthy democracies, there is no strong tradition of people voting their pocketbooks or of politicians rising and falling on the tides of the economy. This year's election provides a vivid, compelling example.
The economy is reeling, more so than in other places affected by the global slowdown and particularly by the bursting of the technology bubble. In 2001, the first year Mr. Sharon led the government, the gross domestic product shrank about 1 percent, a stunning reversal from 2000, when it grew by 7.4 percent.
In 2002 it shrank another 1 percent. Worse yet, many economists predict that the contraction will continue through this year.
"It's by far the worst recession that Israel has ever had," said Nadine Baudot-Trajtenberg, an economist with Bank Hapoalim, adding that the figures actually understated the situation.
Ms. Baudot-Trajtenberg said that because Israel's population grew substantially during 2001 and 2002, the gross domestic product per person shrank 3 percent in each of those years. 
By that measure, she said, it is her view that Israel is enduring what may be "the worst recession that any industrialized country has seen since World War II."
Unemployment was 10.4 percent in the third quarter of last year, the most recent figure available, up from 8.8 percent in 2000. The value of the national currency, the shekel, is down.
Throughout the country there are empty hotel rooms, nearly empty restaurants, construction projects that are unlikely to proceed and technology companies, a linchpin of the 2000 boom, that no longer exist or stagger forward with a fraction of the employees they once had.
Yet Mr. Sharon and Likud do not seem to be absorbing serious political repercussions.
"The economy is an issue," said Hanoch Smith, a pollster and political analyst. "But it's like the sixth most important issue. The first five are security and defense."
To illustrate that point, Mr. Smith referred to a poll of Israeli voters that he conducted a little more than two months ago.
He said only 20 percent of the roughly 500 people surveyed had given the government passing grades for its management of the economy. But about 65 percent approved of Mr. Sharon's muscular response to the current conflict with Palestinians, and that figure precisely matched his job approval rating, which was 65 percent.
Mr. Sharon has also been spared the wrath of voters because many of them associate the downturn with the violence and uncertainty of the current conflict with the Palestinians.
Its start in late 2000 marked the beginning of the economic slump, and some wounds to the Israeli economy, like the decline in tourism, are clearly results of the sense of danger that pervades the country.
Political analysts say there are a few scattered signs that the economy may be having subtle effects on the election.
They said the surprising strength of the Shinui Party, which is giving the Labor Party a run for the second-highest number of votes, was due in part to its portrayal of itself as the protector, economic and otherwise, of the middle class.
But Shinui's main rallying point is its pitch for a secular state without any special privileges for religious groups, and that underscores the existence in Israel of hot issues that push the economy off center stage.
"We have so many important debates -- between Jews and Arabs, between secular and religious people -- that economic issues decline in importance," said Dr. Asher Cohen, who teaches political science at Bar-Ilan University near Tel Aviv.
It is not remarkable for a politician to give a campaign speech without mentioning the economy, or for a voter to have little sense of the major parties' economic plans.
"In some polls, people said they couldn't define the differences between Likud and Labor," Mr. Smith said, adding, "I don't know what they are."
But voters do know what makes them feel safer in a country that is ever watchful, ever anxious and frequently plagued by violence.
In interviews with about a dozen residents of Qiryat Malachi, many applauded Mr. Sharon's aggressive responses to suicide bombings and his government's military incursions into Palestinian communities, like the one in the Gaza Strip late Saturday and early Sunday, just two days before the elections. It left 12 Palestinians dead.
The affinity here for Likud, as opposed to Labor, has roots in history. Qiryat Malachi is one of the so-called development towns that sprang up to accommodate immigrants in the 1950's and 1960's, when Labor ruled and, in these immigrants' views, treated them like second-class citizens. Likud was the main opposition.
But in this election there is an array of other parties to which the town's residents could flee. They nonetheless seem to remain as supportive of Likud as ever, despite their grim assessments of the way many residents are living.
"I really know people who have nothing to eat," said Eddie Tuviana, 36, a truck driver.
Mr. Tuviana said he might vote for Shas, an ultra-Orthodox party, but not as a rebuke to Mr. Sharon. In fact, he said he trusted -- and hoped -- that Shas would join in a governing coalition with Likud.
His cousin, Avi Tuviana, 33, who drives a tow truck, interrupted and said, "I'm going to walk all the way to the ballot box with him and make sure he drops in a slip for Sharon."
Explaining why, Avi Tuviana cited the Palestinian conflict, then praised Mr. Sharon with an adjective that resident after resident here applied -- glowingly -- to the prime minister.
"He's such a powerful man," he said.
He conceded that he worries these days about every shekel he spends.
Even so, he said, "I'm not all that bothered by the economic situation," adding that he could perhaps afford to worry about it down the road.
"First," he said, "you have to be alive."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Meir Panim soup kitchen in Jerusalem, shown here, and its branches in six towns feed 2,500 people daily as unemployment rises. But unlike Americans, Israelis seldom vote their pocketbooks. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); POLITICS (87%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); TRENDS (69%); POPULATION GROWTH (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); CURRENCIES (60%); LOTTERIES (54%); WORLD WAR II (50%) ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES; PALESTINIANS 

COMPANY: BANK HAPOALIM BM (51%)

TICKER: POLI (TASE) (51%); 80OA (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

PERSON: BRUNI, FRANK; SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



876 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: NextWave Victory May Not Prove Too Lucrative 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
Investors cheered the Supreme Court victory of NextWave Telecom, sending the company's shares up 22 percent yesterday. But the ruling may end up being much less lucrative than the company and its founder and chief executive, Allen B. Salmasi, might have previously hoped.
 Industry executives and analysts say the licenses are probably worth somewhat more than the $4.74 billion that NextWave agreed to pay in a 1996 auction. But they say the value of the licenses is nothing near the total of $16 billion that Verizon Wireless and other big cellular telephone companies agreed to pay for them two years ago, when the Federal Communications Commission held a new auction after NextWave filed for bankruptcy protection. 
 The Supreme Court's decision yesterday upheld a lower court's ruling that the F.C.C. had no right to seize the licenses and reauction them. But the question remains open about what happens next for NextWave. 
NextWave executives said yesterday that they intended to proceed with construction of a network. But analysts said a more likely outcome for NextWave, which is based in Hawthorne, N.Y., could be piecemeal sales of its spectrum to several companies. Such a strategy would allow the company to generate cash for its creditors.
"Now that the litigation cloud has been lifted we can finally proceed," Michael Wack, senior vice president of NextWave, said yesterday. "Now we can go to the market and let it tell us where to go next."
Although cellular industry executives said they might be interested in buying some of the licenses, several industry developments have contributed to eroding prices for the type of wireless airwaves the licenses represent. The factors include slowing subscriber growth rates during the economic downturn, growing skepticism over the potential of so-called next-generation wireless services and various federal efforts to increase the spectrum available to large carriers. 
"Spectrum prices have dropped considerably," said Craig Mallitz, a wireless analyst at Legg Mason in Washington. "This raises the question whether there's any value in NextWave because their entire argument hinges on spectrum values."
While the fate of NextWave's licenses were tied up in the courts, the big wireless carriers have proceeded with alternate plans to acquire additional spectrum by swapping among themselves or buying it from smaller companies. 
The decline in spectrum prices was evident in the $750 million deal Verizon Wireless made in December to acquire spectrum in cities including New York, Boston and Minneapolis from Northcoast Communications. Based on local population data, Verizon paid about $1.60 a potential subscriber for the licenses in the Northcoast deal -- far less than the average price of $4.18 a potential subscriber that Verizon and other big carriers agreed to pay for the NextWave licenses when the F.C.C.'s auction in January 2001 valued them at $16 billion.
Mr. Mallitz said that based on recent deals, NextWave's licenses might be worth around $6.45 billion.
Officials of Verizon Wireless, the nation's biggest wireless company, said there were still many details to be clarified about the status of the NextWave licenses by the F.C.C. and possibly even Congress. Verizon officials said that they had no immediate need for additional spectrum, because of the deal with Northcoast, a unit of Cablevision Systems. The Northcoast licenses will enable Verizon to expand its cellular capacity by 40 percent in New York City, the market where its spectrum needs were most pressing.
And yet, Verizon executives noted that their company had been interested enough in NextWave's licenses to bid on them once before and might be interested if they eventually come on the market again -- though probably at a much lower price.
The Supreme Court's decision "will get the spectrum in the hands of the industry," said Ivan Seidenberg, chief executive of Verizon Communications, which controls Verizon Wireless in a venture with Vodafone. "I think that appeals to everybody," Mr. Seidenberg said of the NextWave spectrum, "because it's has been lying fallow for all this time."
Some technical experts in the wireless industry said they hoped that at least some of NextWave's spectrum would change hands relatively soon, so that large carriers could begin to expand networks that have come under stress from higher calling volumes. More spectrum would enable carriers to improve service and reliability, while also allowing them to offer a wider variety of data-based services like the transmission of digital photos by cellphone. 
For now, NextWave is reaffirming its plan to build its own wireless system that would serve as a kind of wholesale network for other companies, or a so-called carrier's carrier. But recent problems in the wireless industry have raised doubts about the viability of such a strategy.
For one thing, many analysts agree that there are too many wireless carriers, as illustrated by the fierce competition among carriers that has meant declining per-minute prices for many consumers. 
These price declines have at least partly curbed the appetite for growth by the nation's large carriers, as has persistent skepticism over the potential of advanced wireless Internet services. The carriers are also being challenged by the growth of rival mobile data technologies like Wi-Fi Internet access, which are capable of carrying voice calls.
NextWave's senior executives remained optimistic yesterday about the company's plan to build its own network. Investors bid the shares up 50 cents yesterday, to $2.80. But one of the company's largest investors, Douglas P. Teitelbaum, a principal at Bay Harbour Management, a firm specializing in distressed securities, admitted the possibility of selling some licenses.
"We may make some of the spectrum available," Mr. Teitelbaum said. "But I'm still convinced the decline in the spectrum's value is a temporary phenomenon. It's a commodity price fluctuation, not a statement about the compelling potential of wireless data services."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Allen B. Salmasi, the founder, chairman and chief executive of NextWave Telecom. (Richard L. Harbus) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); VERDICTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; BANKRUPTCIES; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (85%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); LEGG MASON INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%) SUPREME COURT (US); NEXTWAVE TELECOM INC; FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); LM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (85%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%) SIC4812 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS; 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON; SALMASI, ALLEN B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



877 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Rules F.C.C. Took Licenses Away in Error 

BYLINE:  By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27 

 BODY:
The Federal Communications Commission had no right to cancel the valuable wireless communications licenses that a bankrupt company had won at auction and then could not pay for, the Supreme Court ruled today.
 The court sent the government the clear message: while companies are reorganizing under bankruptcy protection, federal bankruptcy law protects them from dismemberment by regulatory agencies, just as the law protects bankrupt companies from ordinary creditors. 
 The 8-to-1 decision was a huge victory, as well as a new challenge, for a start-up telecommunications company, NextWave Telecom. While the ruling returns the licenses to NextWave, the company is still trying to emerge from bankruptcy, and industry analysts say the value of such licenses has been falling since the Federal Communications Commission tried to reauction them in early 2001. 
NextWave's five-year legal battle with the F.C.C. has been closely watched not only by the telecommunications industry but by other regulated industries that are also potential beneficiaries of the ruling.
NextWave was the winning bidder at a 1996 auction intended to permit small businesses to compete for a portion of the wireless spectrum. The company agreed to pay $4.74 billion, with 10 percent down and the rest in installments over 10 years, for some 200 of the sought-after licenses. NextWave made a $500 million down payment. But as a start-up, the company had trouble raising additional financing. Unable to renegotiate with the F.C.C., NextWave never made another payment and filed for bankruptcy protection in 1998. 
Rather than permit the company to reorganize and work out a payment schedule, the commission confiscated the licenses and put them out for a new auction. NextWave sued on the ground that the cancellation violated the federal bankruptcy code, which provides in Section 525 that a government agency may not revoke a license "solely because" a bankrupt license holder has not paid a debt that would ordinarily be covered by the bankruptcy law.
NextWave won a favorable ruling in June 2001 from the federal appeals court here, which invoked what it called "the fundamental principle that federal agencies must obey all federal laws." The Supreme Court affirmed that decision today in an opinion by Justice Antonin Scalia. The lone dissenter was Justice Stephen G. Breyer. 
The decision puts NextWave once again in possession of licenses for broadband personal communications services it can use to build a business as it tries to emerge from bankruptcy. The decision "clears the way for us to move forward and complete our reorganization," Allen Salmasi, the company's founder and chief executive, said today. 
The value of the licenses themselves, which had plunged to a low of $1 billion at the time of the bankruptcy filing, is uncertain. Two years ago, at the new auction held by the F.C.C. after the cancellation, Verizon Wireless and other big companies agreed to pay a total of $16 billion for the licenses that the government confiscated from NextWave and put out for resale. But late last year, with the licenses tied up in the courts and as the recession in the telecommunications industry was causing demand and prices for wireless spectrum to plummet those companies requested and got their money back from the F.C.C. Market analysts say the market value of wireless spectrum has continued to erode.
In its decision today, Federal Communications Commission v. NextWave Personal Communications Inc., No. 01-653, the court made short work of the commission's defense that in canceling the licenses, it was acting not as an ordinary creditor, but as a regulator. Because it had a "valid regulatory motive" for canceling the licenses, the government argued, NextWave's failure to pay its debt was not the "sole motive" and the language of Section 525 was therefore not applicable.
"A debt is a debt," Justice Scalia said in response. He said the bankruptcy code did not contain a regulatory exception of this sort. Indeed, he wrote, "such an exception would consume the rule" and "deprive Section 525 of all force." The government can always come up with a motive so as to deny that a failure to pay was the "sole motive," he said, whether the motive could be described as "assuring the financial solvency" of the licensed company or punishing an illegality.
"We think Congress meant what it said: The government is not to revoke a bankruptcy debtor's license solely because of a failure to pay his debts," Justice Scalia said.
In his argument to the court on behalf of the F.C.C., Deputy Solicitor General Paul D. Clement said the government viewed NextWave's inability to make its payments "as a proxy for determining that continued possession of the licenses was not in the public interest."
In his dissenting opinion, Justice Breyer said the majority had relied too literally on the language of Section 525 without taking the bankruptcy code's larger context into account. He said that Congress intended the provision to be applied with some flexibility so that the federal government would not be placed in a worse position than private creditors.
"Why should the government (state or federal), and the government alone, find it impossible to repossess a product, namely, a license, when the buyer fails to make installment payments?" Justice Breyer asked. He said that Congress did not "intend an interpretation so broad that it would threaten unnecessarily to deprive the American public of the full value of public assets that it owns." He said the evident purpose of the provision was simply to protect bankrupt companies against discrimination at the hands of federal regulators.
Justice John Paul Stevens wrote a separate opinion to say that he regarded the case as very close but, in the end, correctly decided. "Even though I agree with Justice Breyer's view that the literal text of a statute is not always a sufficient basis for determining the actual intent of Congress," he said, "in these cases I believe it does produce the correct answer."
G. Eric Brunstad, who practices bankruptcy law and teaches it at Yale Law School, said today that the decision was "fabulous, not only for NextWave but for bankruptcy law." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS REGULATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); VERDICTS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); BROADBAND (73%); APPEALS COURTS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (54%); EXECUTIVES (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; BANKRUPTCIES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; AUCTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%) SUPREME COURT (US); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION; NEXTWAVE TELECOM INC 

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (84%)

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (57%); STEPHEN BREYER (57%) GREENHOUSE, LINDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) ; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



878 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Pledges Fight Against Taxes as He Prepares Budget Proposal 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 27 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki finished a series of speeches today intended to stake out his position as an antitax conservative before the battle over the state budget begins in earnest when he announces his spending plan on Wednesday. 
 Mr. Pataki, a Republican, has been laboring to cast the debate over how to close a $12 billion budget gap as a choice between "job-killing taxes" and tax cuts intended to spur the economy. As he did in two other speeches last week, the governor pledged to fight against efforts to "tax our way back to fiscal health." He not only said raising taxes to balance the state's books would chase businesses out of the state, but also vowed to cut taxes further to attract businesses. 
 "The choice is between more jobs or more taxes," he said. "My budget makes that choice in no uncertain terms. We know that massive job-killing tax increases don't work. We need more jobs."
But Mr. Pataki has been careful in his recent speeches not to draw a line in the sand on raising taxes. He has not promised to veto any tax increases the Legislature might add to his executive budget. Neither has he ruled out raising fees, tuition, train fares and other surcharges that some consider to be taxes in a different form.
Many Democrats and labor leaders regard the governor's antitax stance as a political ploy, a starting point for what promises to be a long debate over the budget. He has cast himself in the role of defender of low taxes, and has characterized his Democratic opponents as defenders of a bloated bureaucracy.
Democratic leaders in the Legislature expect that the governor will propose a budget with extremely deep cuts to services, then negotiate long and hard before eventually accepting some tax increases as part of a plan to close the budget gap. That strategy would let him lay the blame for new taxes on the Legislature.
"Anyone who tells you it's going to be solved without cuts is lying, and so is anyone who tells you it's going to be solved without raising taxes," said Senator Eric T. Schneiderman of Manhattan, echoing the view of other Democrats. "Wednesday's budget is the beginning."
Mr. Pataki took no questions from reporters after his speech today. Asked about the speech, Michael McKeon, the governor's chief spokesman, said that Mr. Pataki had not meant to deliver an ultimatum against any future tax increases, but rather to begin a debate. 
"The governor's outlined a clear vision for what works and what doesn't work," Mr. McKeon said. "There is going to be a public debate."
While making the case against taxes, the governor has kept the details of his budget closely guarded. Today he added two more tidbits. Nodding to the fiscal problems of counties and cities, Mr. Pataki said he would not cut state aid to local governments, but would freeze it at its current level. This year, the state gave local governments $792 million, with $328 million going to New York City.
The governor also said he would propose increase an income tax credit for working-class people to 30 percent from 25 percent, at a cost to the state of $15 million. 
In the last few weeks, Mr. Pataki has said he will spend less than the $89.6 billion in this year's plan. He has proposed floating $4 billion in bonds backed by yearly payments that the state receives from a court settlement with tobacco companies. 
Mr. Pataki said again today that he would cut the Medicaid program, which accounts for $12 billion in state spending, but he has not said how or what services would be pared back. He said today that no programs except antiterrorist initiatives would be held sacred, even those he has championed himself.
"We can either cut these programs today and allow for the growth that will fuel them tomorrow, or subject New Yorkers to job losses and a fiscal crisis for years to come," he said.
The governor has not said what he will do about the $14 billion that the state gives to local school districts for education, but most budget analysts say it will be nearly impossible to close a $10 billion gap and still add money to education. The governor has also hinted that he will sell off some state assets, though he has given no details. 
Mr. Pataki has some other fiscal maneuvers at his disposal: about $710 million in a reserve fund, $500 million from delaying the payment of tax refunds, and $200 million from putting off the payment of some bills. All are being considered, budget officials said.
The administration has also made it clear that some state services will cost more. The Pataki-controlled board of the State University of New York has proposed raising tuition by $1,400 a year, to $4,800. SUNY tuition was last raised in 1995, when Mr. Pataki faced his last major budget gap. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which the governor also controls, is considering subway and bus fare increases for New York City Transit.
The governor asserts that his policy of cutting income taxes and corporate taxes and reducing regulation when he came into office in 1995 made the state more attractive to businesses, eventually creating 600,000 jobs. Raising taxes now would drive jobs out of the state again, as happened in the early 1990's, he said.
But some economists dispute that view, saying that the economy had already turned a corner and had begun adding jobs two years before Mr. Pataki took office. Democrats also say that tax increases for the wealthy, while not good for the economy, do less harm than cutting state spending during a recession. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters in Syracuse complained about Gov. George E. Pataki's possible budget cuts. "The choice is between more jobs or more taxes," he said. (C. W. McKeen/The Post Standard, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VETO (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%) TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (74%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



879 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Stocks Plunge On Concerns About Iraq And Economy

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Stocks fell on Wall Street and abroad yesterday as investors faced a week packed with uncertainty about a war with Iraq, the outlook for corporate earnings and the economy over all. 
 The week will also be filled with significant events, including President Bush's State of the Union address tonight and the meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers today and tomorrow. 
 During a day in which the three major market gauges on Wall Street fell more than 1.3 percent -- the Dow Jones industrial average closed below 8,000 -- and several main markets in Europe were down more than 3 percent, investors continued to receive mixed signals on the immediacy of a war with Iraq. 
The investor George Soros, who was attending the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, told Bloomberg News that "investors should avoid big bets until the uncertainty around Iraq is resolved." 
Today investors will be looking to the State of Union address, some analysts said, for signs that Washington will be able to have a plan quickly approved for igniting economic growth.
The Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index finished yesterday at their lowest levels since October, which was just days after both gauges had fallen to five-year lows. Since reaching a high for the year on Jan. 14, the Dow, the S.& P. 500 and the Nasdaq composite index are down more than 9 percent and are in negative territory for the year.
Hans Blix, the chief United Nations inspector for biological and chemical weapons, said yesterday that there was evidence that Iraq was developing nerve gas and was not accepting disarmament. 
At the same time, Mohamed ElBaradei, director of the International Atomic Energy Agency, asked for more time to conduct additional inspections.
The White House said that the report from the United Nations indicated that Iraq had failed to comply with resolutions on disarmament but it set no deadlines. "The process is continuing, but the process is running out of time," Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, told reporters. Mr. Fleischer also said that the State of the Union address would not include a deadline or a declaration of war.
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said at a news conference yesterday that the United States would be consulting with its allies before it announced its next step and whether it would agree to give weapons inspectors more time.
The fact that there is some confusion about the outlook could be seen in the performance of the stock and bond markets. While stocks were falling, prices in the Treasury market also declined, sending yields higher. Recently, bonds have tended to rally when stocks fell and a war with Iraq looked more likely. But yesterday, bonds may have declined because some investors felt that a war with Iraq might be delayed as inspections continued and the Bush administration worked to obtain more support from its allies, which are sharply divided over a war.
The Dow declined 141.45 points, or 1.7 percent, to close at 7,989.56, while the S.& P. 500 dropped 13.92 points, or 1.6 percent, to close at 847.48. The Nasdaq fell 16.87 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,325.27. The Dow is off 4.2 percent for the year; the S.& P. 500 is down 3.7 percent; and the Nasdaq is 0.8 percent lower.
In the bond market, the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note rose to 3.97 percent from 3.93 percent on Friday. The note's price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, fell 10/32, to 100 9/32.
Drug industry stocks were the biggest losers among the sectors of the S.& P. 500 as reports ahead of Mr. Bush's State of the Union address said that the president would propose a prescription drug program for the elderly that could make drug makers reduce prices. Shares of Merck fell $1.79, to $51.76; and Eli Lilly dropped $1.36, to $60.22.
Telecommunication companies, like AT&T, and information technology companies, like Microsoft and Sun Microsystems, have been the biggest losers since Jan. 14. 
The S.& P.'s telecommunication services index is down 16 percent since then, while the information technology index is showing a loss of 12.1 percent. For the first two weeks of the year, these indexes led the market higher. 
Some analysts, like Henry J. Herrmann, chief investment officer at Waddell & Reed in Overland Park, Kan., think that the weakness of earnings and the economy are more of a drag on the market than the threat of a war.
"The underpinning of the economy is not vigorous," Mr. Herrmann said. "We need a stimulus package, and the market is fretting over that. The economic package is more important than the war."
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.712	99.414	High Rate	1.140	1.160	Investment Rate	1.159	1.182	Low Rate	1.10%	1.12%	Median Rate	1.12%	1.15%	Total applied for	$41,386,394	$40,239,152	Accepted	$24,823,714	$21,881,053	Noncompetitive	$1,647,147	$1,240,907	

Both issues are dated Jan. 30, 2003. The three-month bills mature on May 1, and the six-month bills mature on July 31.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C9) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C9) Graph tracks 3-Month Treasury Bills since October. (Source: The Bond Buyer)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); BONDS (91%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (63%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (62%); INTEREST RATES (59%); TERRORISM (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MOHAMED ELBARADEI (57%); GEORGE SOROS (53%) FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); EUROPE (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



880 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 70 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Japan: Trade Surplus Expands 

BYLINE:  By Ken Belson (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Japan's trade surplus hit 791 billion yen ($6.7 billion) in December, growing 19.9 percent compared with the month a year ago. 
Economists had expected the surplus to expand twice as fast, but more expensive imports of oil offset strong growth in exports of automobiles and equipment used to produce semiconductors. Japan's trade surplus with the United States grew 18.6 percent, to 624 billion yen. Ken Belson (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (84%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (84%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



881 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: HOCKEY; 
A Financial Sign of the Times

BYLINE:  By JOE LAPOINTE

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
On a cold, windy, snowy evening, 18,241 fans filed into the Corel Center last Saturday to cheer for the Senators, who had the best record in the N.H.L.
 But as the team prepared to play the Buffalo Sabres, there were undercurrents of apprehension and contradiction. Despite the big crowd in the modern arena, the teams were evenly matched in an unusual way. Both were operating under bankruptcy protection. This was the Creditors Cup. 
 "Well, I'm glad to be part of N.H.L. history," said Sabres defenseman Jay McKee, whose signing bonus is overdue. "Unfortunately, it's not a good thing." 
The financial peril of the Senators and the Sabres is not typical of all 30 N.H.L. teams. But they are the extreme examples of hockey's business conditions during an economic downturn. As the league prepares for Sunday's All-Star Game in Sunrise, Fla. -- and a rare appearance on a major television network in the United States -- there are mixed signals about the health of the industry as management and the players union brace for a collective bargaining confrontation next year.
National television ratings are up in the United States but remain relatively modest compared with those of other major sports. ESPN and ESPN2 have reduced the number of games being broadcast with one season remaining on the contract. The league reports record-high revenue, but it says the players take too much of that money in salaries.
Although the league reports attendance is about the same as it was last season, the players and the reporters who cover the teams see growing patches of empty seats. Madison Square Garden, which used to sell out for Rangers games, now advertises available tickets, and some seats go unsold. Other teams, including Ottawa, have lowered some prices.
"We're feeling, as many, many, many, many teams are, the effects of the economy," Tom Rooney, a Pittsburgh Penguins executive, said. "There is a big downturn in corporate support, season tickets, things like that." 
Scott Stevens, the Devils' captain, said: "It's definitely scary and it makes you think. Some of the buildings aren't full. This might be a bit of a warning to everybody, a bit of an eye-opening situation, what's happening in Buffalo and Ottawa."
But Michael Peca, the Islanders' captain, said: "We're well educated on these two situations. We're not fooled by a couple of poor business decisions."
As he begins his 11th season as commissioner, Gary Bettman seems to be sending two messages: the sky is blue and the sky is falling. "It is the best of times and the worst of times," he said. "I have faced many challenges in my 10 years at the N.H.L., and we have a pretty good record of getting through each one. And we will get through this one."
Bettman's words are backed by team executives who have been instructed by league memo -- under a threat of a fine -- exactly what they should and should not say about finances. Last week, one of them, Timothy J. Leiweke, the president of the Los Angeles Kings, said: "We are losing $8 million this year. Obviously, we have to fix the system."
Some players and officials of the N.H.L. Players Association are skeptical about the timing, in the wake of the two bankruptcies. The Senators and the Sabres have two of the lowest payrolls in the league. Their problems are not caused by the collective bargaining agreement. The Buffalo owner, John J. Rigas, was accused of financial fraud last year; the Ottawa franchise and its new arena were underfinanced from the team's inception 11 seasons ago.
Ottawa defenseman Curtis Leschyshyn said he found it curious that the team owner, Rod Bryden, was recruiting new partners to reacquire the Senators through bankruptcy court. In essence, Bryden is trying to buy the team from himself while shedding millions of dollars in debt. If hockey is such a bad business, Leschyshyn asked, why does this owner want to stay in it, and why would partners want to join him?
"I have a hard time believing franchises today have no value," Leschyshyn said. Referring to the two bankruptcies, he added: "The timing is good for the owners. It just so happens, obviously, that the collective bargaining agreement is just around the corner."
The Senators players had a payless payday this month, but it has been made up. Last Friday, the bankruptcy court in Ottawa gave Bryden more time to make a new deal with creditors.
Bankruptcy might allow the Senators to avoid paying $2.5 million in deferred salary owed to Aleksei Yashin, who now plays for the Islanders. But they may still have to pay about $10 million they owe to the N.H.L. William Daly, executive vice president and chief legal officer of the league, explained that the league was a secured creditor and that Yashin was an unsecured creditor.
Yet when Yashin was suspended in a contract dispute and did not play for the Senators during the 1999-2000 season, he was chastised by teammates, management, fans and the news media for not living up to his end of a bargain.
"Contracts are broken every day by everybody around, including those people who open the biggest mouths in Canada, including the ownership of the Ottawa Senators," Mark Gandler, Yashin's agent, recently said. "Where is the sanctity of the guaranteed contract when you can hide behind bankruptcy?"
The league granted another extension last week to Mark Hamister, who leads a group trying to assume control of the Sabres. Hamister is offering $33 million in cash and assumption of $7 million in debt to buy a team that was recently valued by Forbes magazine at $92 million.
If McKee and two teammates are not paid money due them, they can file a grievance and seek free agency. "It's not something I want to do right now," McKee said. "Down the road, if it looks like the money isn't going to be given to us, that might be the only option."
Bankruptcy is not new to the N.H.L., even during its growth spurt in the 1990's, when the last four expansion teams paid $80 million each to join the league. The Kings went bankrupt seven years ago after their owner, Bruce McNall, went to jail for financial fraud.
"Quite frankly, we came in and kind of paid everybody off," said Leiweke, who represents the new Kings ownership. "The majority of moneys owed got paid out. Some people got burned, but not terribly."
Another bankrupt team was the Pittsburgh Penguins. Their main creditor was Mario Lemieux, then a retired superstar who was owed $31 million in deferred salary. In a contentious court proceeding, Lemieux relinquished some deferred compensation and exchanged the rest for equity in the franchise in 1999. Then he came out of retirement to become the league's only player-owner.
Although currently injured, Lemieux leads the league in scoring for a team that has made a profit for the last three seasons. Rooney, president of Team Lemieux L.L.C., said this season's payroll is about $32 million and gross revenues will be about $65 million.
"Bankruptcy is a beautiful thing if you're the new group coming in because you are unencumbered by the commitments and deals that were in place," Rooney said. "It's a function of our legal system that bankruptcy allows us to start over with a clean slate if you're the new guy. And boy, we've maximized the value of that."
Pittsburgh's money problems of the mid-1990's were a result, in part, of the 15-week lockout, which delayed the start of the 1994-95 season and interrupted the franchise's cash flow. Many declared then that Bettman won that confrontation because the union had made several concessions short of a salary cap. But the average salary rose to $1.64 million last season from $733,000 in 1994-95.
After twice extending the basic agreement, Bettman has recently begun to call for "cost certainty," a phrase the union interprets as a call for a salary cap. Union leaders, including the executive director, Bob Goodenow, have begun to call Bettman "the owners' commissioner."
They say Bettman underestimates league revenue at $2 billion when he says players receive 73 percent of the money in wages. Ted Saskin, the senior director of the union, said: "The numbers and percentages being quoted clearly do not fully account for the full business of hockey as we understand it." Calgary Flames defenseman Bob Boughner, a union vice president, said recently that hockey executives talked out of both sides of their mouths.
He added, "You never know what to believe."
But the circumstances of ownership may be winning sympathy among the rank and file. Rob Ray, a veteran right wing for the Sabres, discussed the business of hockey Saturday night after their 4-3 loss in overtime.
"It's not just a fantasy world we live in, it's a business world, and sometimes it's nasty," Ray, 34, said. "You hear so many stories of teams being in financial trouble. I wouldn't be surprised if there possibly could be more teams going bankrupt between now and the time that the lockout comes."
A 13-year veteran, Ray is one of only three Sabres remaining from the last lockout. His $500,000 salary is less than one-third the league average, but he is one of the league's best fighters. Ray said he was certain there would be another shutdown because "the players are not going to give in to a salary cap, especially at the beginning."
But Ray added that "I think the owners need some type of cap" and that young players now "don't understand they may have to take a pay cut."
"Things may change," he said. "There could be less teams." The benefit of the current crisis, Ray said, is that inexperienced players making large salaries are learning quickly about how their business really works. He glanced up as younger teammates filed past him.
"It's opening up these kids' eyes to see what the real world is really like," Ray said. "Guys started wondering, 'You know, O.K., what is really going on here?' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: The financial troubles of the Buffalo Sabres are starting to wear on players and fans, above at a game last month at HSBC Arena. (Associated Press)(pg. D1); Despite strong fan support at the Corel Center, the Senators have had trouble securing an owner after seeking bankruptcy protection. (Reuters)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); SPORTS FANS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO SABRES (84%)

PERSON: TOM ROONEY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



882 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing E-Commerce: Global Hand-Held Computer Sales Fell In 2002 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 Global sales of hand-held computers fell 9.1 percent last year as businesses cut spending on computer-related products amid slowing economies, a market research company said yesterday. Worldwide shipments declined to 12.1 million units in 2002, Dataquest Inc., a unit of Gartner Inc., said in an e-mailed statement. 
Shipments by Palm Inc., the world's largest maker of hand-held computers, declined 12 percent last year, Dataquest said. Sales were hurt by the "slow adoption" of hand-held computers by companies, a Dataquest analyst, Todd Kort, said in the statement. Hand-held computer makers like Palm have been expanding their product lines for businesses to try to increase revenue at a time that consumers are reining in expenses. In the United States, shipments of hand-held computers declined 7.5 percent in 2002, Dataquest said. Palm's market share worldwide declined to 36.8 percent in 2002 from 38.1 percent in 2001, Dataquest said. Hewlett-Packard, the world's No. 2 maker of hand-held computers, declined to 13.5 percent, compared with a share of 16.9 percent in 2001.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HANDHELD COMPUTERS (92%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); SHIPMENTS (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (79%); MARKET SHARE (78%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SALES 

COMPANY: PALM INC (84%); GARTNER INC (84%); DATAQUEST INC (72%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DATAQUEST INC; PALM INC; HEWLETT-PACKARD CO 

TICKER: IT (NYSE) (84%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%) SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC; SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



883 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1705 words

HEADLINE: Hybrid Autos Quick to Pass Curiosity Stage 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 27 

 BODY:
Hybrids, vehicles that save gasoline by combining electric motors with internal combustion engines, are emerging as the first alternative-powered cars to show signs of catching on with automakers and some consumers since the automobile's early days.
 Toyota and Honda are already selling tens of thousands of hybrids, and General Motors and Ford, worried about ceding another fast-moving market to the Japanese, have announced plans to join them. The hybrid's rise has been encouraged by pressure from environmentalists and regulators, particularly California rules curbing greenhouse gases and smog-forming pollutants. 
 "Hybrid technology is one that has great appeal because we don't have to really invent anything; we know they work," said William Clay Ford Jr., Ford's chairman, in a recent speech. "If these vehicles don't get customer acceptance, I really don't know what we do next." 
A hybrid's battery is recharged by the internal combustion engine and by collecting energy when the car brakes. The battery powers an electric motor that supplements, or takes over for, the gasoline-powered engine. In the Honda Civic hybrid, an electric motor assists when the car is climbing hills or accelerating sharply. In the Toyota Prius, the electric motor takes over at low speeds. In both, the gas engine shuts off when the car stops.
Hybrids have until now been something of a curiosity and account for a small fraction of overall sales. Only three models -- all small cars -- are available, one from Toyota and two from Honda, and they cost a few thousand dollars more than conventional cars. About 150,000 have been sold worldwide since hybrids were introduced in the late 1990's, fewer than the number of vehicles typically produced by a single auto factory in a year. 
But carmakers now appear ready for a much broader rollout. Earlier this month, at the North American International Auto Show here, G.M. -- previously the industry's most vocal skeptic -- publicly embraced the technology. The company said it would sell a hybrid version of its Saturn Vue sport utility vehicle in 2005 that would approach 40 miles a gallon in fuel economy, compared with mileage in the low 20's for current models. G.M. said it would offer vehicles with more limited forms of hybrid power, too, promising 10 to 15 percent improvements in fuel economy on four other models by 2007. 
Also at the auto show, the annual beauty pageant where the industry trots out its latest designs and biggest pronouncements, Toyota said it would sell the first luxury hybrid, a Lexus sport utility vehicle, starting next year -- part of a plan to sell 300,000 hybrids annually by mid-decade. 
Ford plans to sell what will probably be the first hybrid sport utility vehicle, a version of the Escape, at the end of this year, and showed off a new hybrid prototype called the Model U.
Even the Army, which pays as much as $400 a gallon in battlefield fuel costs, had a hybrid on display -- a hulking diesel combat vehicle, built by G.M., that is one of several prototypes being considered for service within a few years, including hybrid Humvees.
"You run those things on battery power; there's no noise," said Maj. Gen. Ross Thompson III, the head of the army's Tank, Automotive and Armaments Command, explaining the appeal of hybrids for the military. "For a reconnaissance mission, or if you want to not be noticed, you can use the batteries."
A century ago, in 1903, gasoline-powered Oldsmobiles shouldered past steam-powered Locomobiles to become America's top-selling brand. Never again would electric or steam cars rule the road. There is scant suggestion that hybrids may replace gasoline-powered cars in the same way. Among other things, two motors cost more than one.
But Stephen Girsky, an auto analyst at Morgan Stanley, predicts that hybrids could grow to 10 to 15 percent of American vehicle sales, which approached 17 million last year. Government incentives, gas prices and how much manufacturing costs can be reduced will be important factors, he said. 
John Casesa, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, said that because the Japanese "view this as a core technology over the next decade," domestic automakers have to respond. "Inevitably, we're moving toward a future with higher fuel economy standards, risk to energy supplies and higher environmental consciousness," he said. "So there's a market pull here."
In addition to representing a response to the latest competitive threat from Japan, Detroit's hybrid plans are good for public relations, especially as hot-selling sport utility vehicles come under increasing criticism for how much gasoline they consume. A recent ad campaign by an evangelical group suggested that Jesus would find sport utilities morally unfit; another, orchestrated by Arianna Huffington, argued that these vehicles increased American reliance on oil from the Middle East.
But there remains considerable debate within the auto industry about whether hybrid technology is too costly to become universal -- and whether its advantages are so modest that it represents a diversion from more worthy approaches to improving fuel economy.
"Right now," said Wolfgang Bernhard, chief operating officer of the Chrysler division of DaimlerChrysler, "everybody is jumping on the hybrid bandwagon and saying this is the most important thing and without it the world's going to end. It reminds me of the hype we had around e-business in the early 90's."
Daimler this year plans to sell a small number of hybrid Dodge Ram pickups tailored for contractors, who could use the trucks as mobile power generators. The company's German executives, though, prefer the updated diesel-engine vehicles already prevalent in Europe; diesels achieve 25 percent better mileage than comparable gasoline-powered cars. American environmentalists, worried about emissions of smog-forming pollutants, oppose a broad reintroduction of diesel-powered vehicles. 
To Japanese-based carmakers, the choice is clear from an environmental standpoint. Hybrids are "the solution for today," said James E. Press, executive vice president of Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A.
"What's the cost of fuel?" he said. "It's not $1.80 a gallon. It's how much does a war in Iraq cost? How much does the fact you've got 75 years of this stuff left on the planet cost? And then what's the cost of pollution? At some point, the industry has to recognize it."
Last year, Toyota sold more than 20,000 of its Prius subcompacts, making Prius, which gets about 40 miles per gallon, the best-selling hybrid in the United States. 
With a base price of $20,500, a Prius costs about $5,000 more than a Toyota Corolla. That is a considerable gap, though Prius buyers can take a $2,000 income tax deduction. Toyota says it now makes some profit on each Prius it sells, if the research-and-development costs are not factored in, but the company will not say how much less profitable hybrids are than its conventional vehicles.
Toyota executives insist that the cost differential can be brought down significantly. For example, Mr. Press said the electric motor in a sport utility vehicle could be configured to power the rear wheels, eliminating the need for, and cost of, a conventional four-wheel-drive system. 
In addition, Congress has considered adding more tax benefits for buyers.
Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chief executive, said such incentives, which could quickly accumulate into a considerable government subsidy, are critical to the future of hybrids, because G.M. does not intend to sell its hybrids at a loss. 
"For this to go, it's a team sport," he said. "We're going to need the government in."
G.M.'s hybrid plans were promoted in full-page newspaper ads and greeted as something of a road-to-Damascus conversion. A Sierra Club statement likened the announcement to "Nixon going to China." Nicholas V. Scheele, Ford's chief operating officer, described himself as "baffled," noting that only recently G.M. had dismissed hybrids as too costly.
Lawrence D. Burns, G.M.'s vice president for research and development, attributed the change of heart to the early success of Toyota and Honda and "the uncertain future in 2005 and beyond with regulatory requirements and gasoline prices."
Robert A. Lutz, G.M.'s vice chairman for North American operations, was more blunt. "You just can't fly in the face of public opinion," he told The Detroit News. "It would be self-defeating to constantly say to ourselves, 'It's not gonna work, it's not gonna work.' "
Since the days of Thomas A. Edison, the auto industry has been trying to make a credible alternative to the internal combustion engine. Edison himself was a pioneer of the battery-powered car, though he is said to have told a young Henry Ford that his idea for a gasoline engine sounded pretty good.
The first car bought by the government, during Theodore Roosevelt's administration, was a Stanley Steamer, a steam-powered car. In the 1950's, Chrysler was so sure that cars powered by jet engines would be the future that it built a small fleet of them. Today, the industry is convinced that future generations of automobiles will be propelled by hydrogen fuel cells, which generate electricity through a chemical reaction.
If debate continues on hybrids, some clarity is emerging on other alternative technologies. The future seems notably dim for battery powered cars, whose batteries do not last very long and take hours to recharge.
"At the moment I think it's being put to rest," said Fujio Cho, the president of Toyota, adding that his company is "hardly selling any." 
Carlos Ghosn, chief executive of Nissan, agreed that battery-powered cars are "completely obsolete," though Nissan continues to lease battery-powered Altra station wagons to California utilities.
Then there is the fuel cell, for environmentalists and even many auto executives the nonpolluting ideal of alternative fuel technologies. Not only did fuel cells power the inside of lunar landers, they emitted water for astronauts to drink. But will they soon supplant the internal combustion engine?
"Today a fuel cell car probably costs about -- I'm going to be optimistic -- $700,000," Mr. Ghosn said. "We're far from sticker price, eh? We're going to have to get it down to $20,000, $30,000."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 29, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A picture in Business Day yesterday with the continuation of a front-page article about hybrid vehicles, which combine electric motors with internal combustion engines, was published in error. It showed the Hy-wire made by General Motors -- a prototype hydrogen fuel-cell car, not a hybrid.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A century ago, gasoline-powered Oldsmobiles, like the Runabout, above, gained popularity and eventually helped to make steam-powered vehicles obsolete. Today, carmakers like General Motors, with its Hy-wire alternative vehicles, below, say their hybrid cars are catching on. (Associated Press); (Reuters)(pg. C14) Chart/Photo: "Alternative Power, Then and Now"In the first few years of automobile production, the leading vehicles were powered by steam or electricity. It was not until 1903 that a car line powered by an internal combustion engine became the top seller. For the first time since then, alternatives -- called hybrids, which combine gas and electric power -- are being sold in appreciable and growing numbers. Graph tracks:automobiles producedhybrid vehicles sold How Hybrid Cars WorkHow can a car get more than 50 miles to the gallon in city driving? By using two motors, one gasoline-powered, the other electric. Vehicles like the Toyota Prius, below, and the Honda Insight use a gas engine to power the vehicle and to charge the batteries that power the electric engine. GASOLINE ENGINEHybrid cars are still essentially gasoline-powered vehicles. All the electricity they use comes ultimately from the gasoline engine. But the gas engine in a hybrid vehicle is smaller and is turned off when the vehicle is at a stop or cruising at low speeds. ELECTRIC MOTOR-GENERATORA hybrid car's electric motor takes over from the gasoline engine in stop-and-go driving, so a hybrid's fuel economy is greater in city rather than highway conditions. The electric motor doubles as a generator when it is not needed to power the car. BATTERIESIn hybrids, nickel metal hydride (NiMH) batteries provide higher energy density and longer service than typical car batteries. TRANSMISSIONHonda and Toyota take different approaches. The Toyota Prius uses an automatic planetary gearing system with the electric motor alone to power the wheels at low-demand times (at speeds below 10 m.p.h., for example) or uses both motors for high-demand driving, like quick acceleration. The Honda Insight uses a traditional transmission that gets its energy from the gasoline engine and sometimes the electric motor, too. (Sources: Automobile Quarterly; The Henry Ford Museum; Ward's AutoInfoBank; Toyota Motor Corporation; American Honda Motor Company)(pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SMOG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); TRADE SHOWS (67%) AUTOMOBILES; ELECTRIC VEHICLES; FUEL EFFICIENCY; BATTERIES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY VEHICLES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; GLOBAL WARMING; WEATHER; SMOG; AIR POLLUTION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (95%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP; HONDA MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO 

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (95%); HMC (NYSE) (95%); 7267 (TSE) (95%); TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) ; CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



884 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
Wachovia plans a strategy to invade the territory of big city banks like Citigroup and Chase.

BYLINE:  By Riva D. Atlas 

 BODY:
THOUGH still digesting its merger with the First Union Corporation, the Wachovia Corporation is expanding into New York and other consumer banking markets.
 Wachovia, the nation's fourth-largest bank, plans to open 30 to 50 branches a year over the next three years, and, as part of that expansion, is expected to announce today the addition of a dozen branches over the next two years in Manhattan. 
 New York has evolved from one of the sleepiest markets in consumer banking to one of the most competitive, as big banks from neighboring states have rushed in to take on Citigroup and Chase Manhattan. Wachovia hopes to satisfy its suburban customers who work in the city, among other groups, with a New York presence. 
It is also jumping on the boom in consumer banking. After shrinking their number of branches for several year, the biggest banks have recently changed course and begun to expand their branch networks.
The move comes at a time of strong profits in consumer banking, even as other parts of the business, from brokerage to corporate lending, are languishing in the weak economy. 
"It's a rare bank C.E.O. that would go to an analysts' meeting these days and not be announcing a branch expansion," said James M. McCormick, president of the First Manhattan Consulting Group.
Wachovia is also considering expanding its brokerage operation, and has been in negotiations to acquire or form a joint venture with the brokerage division of Prudential Financial, according to executives briefed on the negotiations. 
Wachovia's stated expansion plan is somewhat modest to reflect the bank's continuing efforts to combine its operations with First Union, a $13 billion deal completed a little over a year ago. "Our merger has been going very well," said Benjamin P. Jenkins III, president of Wachovia's consumer bank. "We now can focus on new customer acquisition."
Wachovia has merged branches affecting just 21 percent of its customer deposits, starting with Florida, where the old Wachovia had a small presence and there was relatively little overlap with First Union. It plans to convert the rest of its branch network to the Wachovia name by this fall, including its branches in the Northeast.
So far, Wachovia's integration has gone well, analysts said, although they cautioned that it is still early.
"People to date give them high marks," said Lisa Welch, a portfolio manager of the John Hancock Regional Bank fund. In the most recent quarter, the bank's deposits increased on average by 8 percent from the period a year earlier.
The strength of Wachovia's consumer banking business has contributed to the strong performance of its stock, which has risen 8 percent in the last 12 months. The stock fell 51 cents yesterday, to $35.59.
The progress of the recent merger contrasts with an earlier combination by First Union. After acquiring the CoreStates Financial Corporation of Philadelphia, for $20 billion in April 1998, First Union lost more than 20 percent of CoreStates' two million customers.
"They are taking much longer on the integration this time," Ms. Welch said.
Both Wachovia and First Union opened relatively few branches in the years leading up to their merger, said Mary Beth Navarro, a spokeswoman for Wachovia.
Adding more branches is a strategy being pursued by many banks, eager to keep deposits growing. The branch networks of the top 50 banks, by deposits, declined 2 percent a year for the five years through June 2002, Mr. McCormick said. Smaller institutions opened branches and gained market share during that time.
"The larger banks were focused on cost reduction," Mr. McCormick said. The number of Wachovia branches declined at a rate of 3 percent a year, on average, during those five years, he said.
Wachovia already has a presence in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Connecticut, as well as Westchester County. More than 100,000 Wachovia customers commute to Manhattan each day, Mr. Jenkins said. Along with getting more business from these commuters, Wachovia wants to attract new customers.
Wachovia intends to advertise heavily this summer to introduce former First Union customers in the Northeast to the Wachovia name, and it is a good time to open branches, Mr. Jenkins said.
Wachovia faces plenty of competition in the New York area. In the last few years, many banks in neighboring states have moved in to challenge Chase and Citigroup, which control more than half the deposits in the New York metropolitan area, according to SNL Financial.
The newcomers include Washington Mutual, the nation's biggest savings and loan, which acquired Dime Bancorp in January 2002; and HSBC, which acquired Republic New York in 1999. Smaller banks, including North Fork Bancorpation and Commerce Bancorp, have been starting dozens of branches as well.
Manhattan is appealing to bankers because of its high concentration of wealthy people and entrepreneurs.
"This market is so big there's plenty of room for everybody," said Vernon Hill II, chairman of Commerce Bancorp of Cherry Hill, N.J. Commerce has opened 11 branches in Manhattan since September 2001, with 20 more planned over the next four years.
Besides Manhattan and perhaps, eventually, the other boroughs and Long Island, Wachovia is planning to expand in some of its existing markets: South Florida, the Atlanta area and parts of North Carolina and northern Virginia, Mr. Jenkins said. Wachovia considers these markets fast growing enough to warrant more branches.
Stock analysts following Wachovia said that expansion in Manhattan and elsewhere made sense as long as it was modest. "Hopefully, this will be a small investment for them," said Thomas McCandless, an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods.
Analysts also express some concern that consumer banking profits are starting to slow, as banks make less on the difference between the interest they pay consumers and the cost of raising money. Deposit accounts already pay so little that banks have little room to cut those rates further. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); RETAIL BANKING (91%); BANK BRANCHES (90%); MERGERS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); CORPORATE DEBT (72%); JOINT VENTURES (64%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (52%) BANKS AND BANKING 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (98%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); FIRST MANHATTAN CONSULTING GROUP (54%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: WACHOVIA CORP; CITIGROUP INC; MORGAN, J P, CHASE & CO 

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (98%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); PRU (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%) SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS; SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; 

PERSON: ATLAS, RIVA D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



885 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Don't Wait for Bush's Speech to Criticize His Policies 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27 

 BODY:
President Bush was still working on his State of the Union address today, but that did not stop the two leading Democrats in Congress from rebutting it in advance in sharply critical speeches that accused the president of building a "credibility gap" between his words and actions.
 Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader, and Representative Nancy Pelosi, his counterpart in the House, appeared together at the National Press Club this afternoon to try to predict what Mr. Bush would say in his speech and then to criticize it as lacking substance. Today's remarks capped a week of unusually intense pre-emptive work by Democrats that demonstrates the party's refusal to stay on the sidelines in its new minority role. 
 Mr. Daschle, guessing that the president would say the state of the union is "strong" or "good," countered that he considered the nation to be "anxious." Mixed signals emanating from the White House on domestic and foreign policy, he said, are confusing Americans and creating widespread unease. 
"In the days and weeks after Sept. 11, this administration was clear and commanding in its leadership," Mr. Daschle said. "But on just about every other issue before or since, it has been anything but. Today, what we are getting from the White House are confused signals instead of clear direction, slogans instead of solutions, posturing instead of progress."
The Bush administration, Mr. Daschle continued, is not just failing to deliver on its promises, it is deliberately acting in ways that contradict them. It tells the middle class that tax relief is coming, he said, while cutting the taxes of the wealthy. It promises new programs for domestic security and education, he said, while refusing to spend the money to make them work.
"Between the rhetoric and the reality is a credibility gap," he said. "And it's growing with each new broken promise, each new misleading claim, and each new case of bait-and-switch. This administration keeps saying one thing, but doing another."
Mr. Daschle, of South Dakota, focused primarily on Iraq, saying Mr. Bush had failed to provide the American people with a clear and unified explanation for an invasion.
"When they give so many rotating reasons, it makes people wonder which one is the real one, or if the real reason is none of the above," he said. "Above all, it makes people doubt there is a guiding principle."
Ms. Pelosi, of California, spoke about domestic policy, accusing the administration of presiding over the largest loss of jobs since World War II.
"For two years, America has given the president the benefit of the doubt on his economic plan," she said. "Today, the American people have seen very few benefits and have a lot more doubt. Now, after two years, in addition to record job loss, we have the lowest rate of business investment in 50 years, middle-class incomes are down for the first time in 10 years, and we have the highest poverty rate in 8 years."
Repeatedly, the Democratic leaders laid out the principal theme they will emphasize in the months leading to the 2004 election: that the administration is cutting back on crucial domestic programs to pay for a tax cut that will not stimulate the economy but will enrich already wealthy taxpayers.
On the environment, for example, Ms. Pelosi said the White House was weakening the Clean Air and the Clean Water Acts almost every week, rolling back 30 years of environmental progress.
Bolstered by opinion polls showing Mr. Bush's popularity slipping, the two leaders said the president should not be judged by the words in his speech, but by the reality of the budget he submits next week.
"I hope that the budget the president will submit one week from today will match the rhetoric he will deliver tomorrow night," Ms. Pelosi said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Tom Daschle and Representative Nancy Pelosi yesterday at the National Press Club. The day before the State of the Union speech by President Bush, they accused him of not having justified a war with Iraq and of presiding over the largest loss of jobs since World War II. (Photographs by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); POLITICS (74%); IRAQ WAR (71%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); WORLD WAR II (65%); TAX RELIEF (64%); DISMISSALS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US) 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); TOM DASCHLE (90%); NANCY PELOSI (89%) DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PELOSI, NANCY (REP); FIRESTONE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



886 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Amex Says Card Spending Aided Big Increase in Profit 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
The American Express Company said yesterday that its fourth-quarter profit more than doubled because of higher card spending and growth in new customers, but the company remained cautious about the economy. 
 American Express earned $683 million, or 52 cents a share, in the quarter, compared with $297 million, or 22 cents, in the period a year ago. 
 American Express, the travel and credit card company based in New York, also benefited as people charged more to their cards during the holiday season despite a sluggish economy. More people are using their cards for daily purchases, to capitalize on an American Express rewards program that lets cardholders earn points they can use in lieu of cash on airlines and at shops and hotels. 
The company also took a $279 million charge in the 2001 quarter to restructure operations and laid off thousands of workers after the terrorist attacks hurt its travel business. 
Results matched analysts' estimates. Wall Street expected American Express to earn 49 cents to 53 cents a share, with a mean estimate of 51 cents a share, according to Thomson First Call. 
But the economy remains uncertain, the chief executive, Kenneth I. Chenault, said. 
"We start this year with the same cautious views that we held in 2002," Mr. Chenault said, "and expect continued uncertainty in both the economy and financial markets." 
Revenue rose 6 percent, to $6.2 billion in the quarter. For the year, American Express profit rose to $2.67 billion, from $1.31 billion in 2001. 
Profit at its travel-related services, including charge cards, rose to $550 million, from $170 million a year ago. The results from a year ago included a $219 million pretax restructuring charge. 
Profits at its American Express Financial Advisers money management arm fell to $153 million, from $163 million. The results a year ago included a $45 million pretax restructuring charge. 
American Express bank posted a profit of $24 million, compared with a $9 million profit in the year-earlier quarter. The year-ago results included a $12 million pretax charge. 
Its shares fell 28 cents, to $33.42. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); LOYALTY MARKETING (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TERRORISM (53%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (98%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (58%); STANDARD CHARTERED PLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO 

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (98%); AMP (NYSE) (58%); STAN (LSE) (53%); 2888 (HKSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (98%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (98%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%) SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS; 

PERSON: KENNETH I CHENAULT (78%) CHENAULT, KENNETH I 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



887 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: DISSENT; 
41 Nobel Laureates Sign Declaration Against a War Without International Support

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM J. BROAD 

 BODY:
Forty-one American Nobel laureates in science and economics issued a declaration yesterday opposing a preventive war against Iraq without wide international support. The statement, four sentences long, argues that an American attack would ultimately hurt the security and standing of the United States, even if it succeeds.
 The signers, all men, include a number who at one time or another have advised the federal government or played important roles in national security. Among them are Hans A. Bethe, an architect of the atom bomb; Walter Kohn, a former adviser to the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency at the Pentagon; Norman F. Ramsey, a Manhattan Project scientist who readied the Hiroshima bomb and later advised NATO; and Charles H. Townes, former research director of the Institute for Defense Analyses at the Pentagon and chairman of a federal panel that studied how to base the MX missile and its nuclear warheads. 
 In addition to winning Nobel prizes, 18 of the signers have received the National Medal of Science, the nation's highest science honor.
The declaration reads:
"The undersigned oppose a preventive war against Iraq without broad international support. Military operations against Iraq may indeed lead to a relatively swift victory in the short term. But war is characterized by surprise, human loss and unintended consequences. Even with a victory, we believe that the medical, economic, environmental, moral, spiritual, political and legal consequences of an American preventive attack on Iraq would undermine, not protect, U.S. security and standing in the world."
Dr. Kohn, a Nobel chemist at the University of California at Santa Barbara, organized the declaration.
"No voice was speaking against the war," he said. "So I asked, 'Can I somehow make myself useful?' and had the idea of contacting my Nobel laureate friends and trying to rally them around a reasonable position."
Dr. Kohn said he eventually tried to contact all American Nobel laureates in science and economics, who are thought to number about 130. But some had died or were unreachable, he said, while others never replied. Dr. Kohn said only six respondents declined to sign the declaration.
He said the signers included Democrats and Republicans alike.
Patricia Halloran, an aide to Dr. Kohn, said that more signatures were expected in the next few days as laureates returned from foreign travels or caught up with their mail.
Occasionally, science Nobelists have banded together to speak out, usually on topics of war and peace, arms and technology. In July 2000, 50 Nobel laureates urged President Bill Clinton to reject a proposed $60 billion missile defense system, arguing that it would be wasteful and dangerous. In October 1999, 32 Nobel laureates in physics urged the Senate to approve the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, calling it central to halting the spread of nuclear arms.
The Iraq declaration is to be circulated on Capitol Hill by Senator Dianne Feinstein and Representative Lois Capps, both California Democrats. 
The signers are these, with E designating economics; P, physics; C, chemistry; and M, medicine or physiology:

George A. Akerlof E
Philip W. Anderson P
Paul Berg C
Hans A. Bethe P
Nicolaas Bloembergen P
Paul D. Boyer C
Owen Chamberlain P
Leon N. Cooper P
James W. Cronin P
Robert F. Curl Jr. C
Val L. Fitch P
Robert F. Furchgott M
Sheldon L. Glashow P
Roger Guillemin M
Herbert A. Hauptman C
Alan J. Heeger C
Louis J. Ignarro M
Eric R. Kandel M
Har Gobind Khorana M
Lawrence R. Klein E
Walter Kohn C
Leon M. Lederman P
Yuan T. Lee C
William N. Lipscomb C
Daniel L. McFadden E
Franco Modigliani E
Ferid Murad M
George E. Palade M
Arno A. Penzias P
Martin L. Perl P
William D. Phillips P
Norman F. Ramsey P
Robert Schrieffer P
William F. Sharpe E
Jack Steinberger P
Joseph H. Taylor Jr. P
Charles H. Townes P
Daniel C. Tsui P
Harold E. Varmus M
Robert W. Wilson P
Ahmed H. Zewail C

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES (93%); AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CHEMISTRY (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (75%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (75%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); APPROVALS (70%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; NOBEL PRIZES; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY (57%); INSTITUTE FOR DEFENSE ANALYSES (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (57%); LOIS CAPPS (53%) BROAD, WILLIAM J 

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



888 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: TEHRAN; 
Iraqi Opponent Says He's Leaving Iran to Plan Takeover

BYLINE:  By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Jan. 27 

 BODY:
Ahmed Chalabi, an Iraqi opposition leader, announced today that he intends to travel to Iraq shortly to meet other opposition leaders and plan a provisional government to replace the regime of Saddam Hussein.
 Mr. Chalabi, who heads the Iraqi National Congress, the main Iraqi umbrella opposition group, told a news conference here that he was going into Iraq despite objections from some members of the Bush administration but with the blessing of the White House. 
 The setting of Mr. Chalabi's message was almost as striking as the substance. It was conveyed at his organization's headquarters in a private villa in a gated community in an affluent neighborhood of Tehran. 
Despite American economic sanctions against Iran, the villa, which is decorated with expensive Persian carpets and brocade-covered sofas and armchairs and staffed by about a dozen Iraqi aides and security people, is paid for by the State Department, Mr. Chalabi said in an interview. A special Treasury Department exemption under the Office of Foreign Assets Control was required to allow American funds to finance his operation, he added. 
 In Washington, the State Department confirmed his statement about obtaining government funds for political activity in Tehran. 
"We hope to go to our country in northern Iraqi Kurdistan to have consultations with the leaders over there," Mr. Chalabi said. "And we expect we can come up with a coalition leadership council, which will be empowered to establish a coalition provisional government at the appropriate moment so that the government will lead the process of liberation and would also assume control of the administration of Iraq."
Mr. Chalabi, wearing a suit and tie in a country where ties are still suspect for being too Western, seemed to revel in his surroundings. He welcomed a reporter to his headquarters and said the villa had been "paid for by the State Department." 
Mr. Chalabi's comfort in inviting journalists to his American-financed headquarters in Iran and announcing plans to cross into Iraq underscored how confident he feels about the support of his Iranian hosts.
He and about 15 aides have been in Teheran for several days. Although their presence has not been officially acknowledged, they said they had been meeting with senior officials in agencies like the Revolutionary Guards and the security and intelligence apparatus who report directly to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's spiritual leader and the most powerful man in the country. Iranian officials have promised to help them enter Iraq illegally, they said.
One senior Iranian official played down the Iraqi opposition's activities in the country, saying in an interview: "They are just passing through. They happen to have friends here."
The "friends" are Ayatollah Mohammed Bakr al-Hakim, the Iraqi cleric who was the official host of the visit. The ayatollah heads an Islamic opposition movement and militia that has been given a headquarters, protection, money, weapons and training by Iran since the early days of its revolution nearly 25 years ago.
In the interview, Mr. Chalabi acknowledged that the ayatollah, a Shiite Muslim who once favored the installation of an Iranian-style Islamic republic in Iraq, had been fiercely opposed to working with the United States to topple Mr. Hussein. In recent months he has forged an alliance of convenience with Washington, although he opposes American military occupation of Iraq.
Mr. Chalabi lavished praise on Iran in the news conference, calling discussions with Iranian authorities "useful and fruitful" and disclosing that Iran has quietly allowed him and his group safe passage through their territory into Iraq since the mid-1990's. "As the hour of liberty approaches, they will support our efforts," he said.
Mr. Chalabi also acknowledged that not all members of the Bush administration were in favor of the creation of a provisional government inside Iraq. He also said he was "sorry to say" that some Arab states friendly to Washington "prefer the option of a United States military government in Iraq to a provisional government led by the Iraqi opposition." He did not name the countries. But he also said he believed that resistance within the Bush administration to his intentions could be overcome because "President Bush has decided to confront Saddam Hussein." Mr. Chalabi also said that Zalmay Khalilzad, the White House envoy to the Iraqi opposition movement, even said that he would travel to northern Iraq to join a meeting of a committee of 65 opposition leaders chosen at a conference last month in London. "Khalilzad knew all about it, and he has encouraged me and said he favored my travel plans," Mr. Chalabi said in the interview.
There are still logistical, security and visa issues that must be resolved before all 65 Iraq opposition committee leaders can come together in northern Iraq for the meeting, which is now tentatively scheduled for the second half of February.
Despite a policy of "active neutrality" in the crisis with Iraq, Iran has launched a strategy of conducting business as usual with Mr. Hussein's regime while also dealing with Iraqi opposition leaders.
Even Iran's officially declared position is ambiguous. It opposes an American-led war against Iraq on the grounds that it will cause regional instability, kill innocent civilians and create a refugee crisis on its 730-mile border with Iraq. But Iran also insists that Baghdad must comply fully with the United Nations weapons inspectors. What the consequences will be if it fails to do so, Iranian officials do not say.
It would be hard to find even one Iranian with a good word to say about Mr. Hussein, the man who invaded their country in 1980 and later used chemical weapons to kill Iranian soldiers in the first use of chemical weapons on the battlefield since World War I. Until Iran made peace with Iraq after eight years of war, the official policy of the Iranian government was Mr. Hussein's ouster.
Now the stated policy is that the fate of the Iraqi government must be determined inside the country. "We stress that any change in Iraq should be made by the Iraqi people," said Abdullah Ramezanzadeh, the presidential spokesman, in an interview.
But personally, Mr. Ramezanzadeh, an Iranian Kurd and a former soldier whose brother was wounded in a chemical weapons attack, said he feels differently. "I have fought as a soldier against Iraq, and many of my friends who were fighting at my side died before my eyes," he said. "So I cannot have a positive opinion about Saddam."
The current war fever has shaken Iran's uneasy coexistence with Iraq, which has prevailed since the end of the Iran-Iraq war. 
Earlier this month parliament summoned Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi to explain why his Iraqi counterpart, Naji Sabri, was planning an unexpected visit to Iran.
Mr. Kharrazi replied that Iran wants to help prevent a war against Iraq by the United States "through diplomatic initiatives" and was pressing Iraq "to comply with U.N. resolutions."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ahmed Chalabi, leader of the Iraqi National Congress, spoke yesterday in Tehran about his plans to enter Iraq to meet other opposition groups. (Agence France-Presse for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); RELIGION (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); POLITICS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); WRITERS (63%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (61%); TERRORISM (60%); EXTORTION (60%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); ALI KHAMENEI (53%) SCIOLINO, ELAINE; CHALABI, AHMED; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KHAMENEI, ALI (AYATOLLAH) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN (95%) IRAQ; IRAN; TEHRAN (IRAN)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



889 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: A Credibility Problem 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Will tonight's State of the Union address restore George W. Bush's political fortunes?
 Only a few weeks ago, that would have seemed an extremely unlikely question. Fresh off the Republican victory in the midterm elections, President Bush seemed invincible -- and it's amazing how many stories you still read about his immense, unshakeable popularity. 
 But anyone who takes the trouble to look at the numbers knows that the thrill is gone. Mr. Bush's approval ratings have plunged over the last two months. A year ago he was, indeed, immensely popular; right now he's not significantly more popular than he was before Sept. 11. 
 Other polls suggest that the public is particularly disenchanted with Mr. Bush's economic policy. Most voters no longer believe that his tax cuts are effective at creating jobs, and many also believe that his policies favor the wealthy and large corporations, rather than people like themselves. (Class warfare!)
 Still, polls can shift -- as they did, suddenly, after Sept. 11. Can tonight's speech do the trick?
 We can be sure that some pundits will acclaim the speech as bold and brilliant; they would do that if he read from "The Very Hungry Caterpillar." Whether their praise, and the theatrics of the occasion, will turn things around is anyone's guess. A lot depends on whether Mr. Bush is held accountable for the promises he made in his last State of the Union address.
 For there was more to that speech than the axis of evil (a phrase, by the way, that has vanished from Mr. Bush's vocabulary, along with the name of that guy he promised to bring in dead or alive). He assured those who worried about red ink that "our budget will run a deficit that will be small and short-lived." He offered comfort for those who remembered his father's "jobless recovery," which felt like a continuing recession: "When America works, America prospers, so my economic security plan can be summed up in one word: jobs." 
 Fast-forward a year. We now know that the "small" budget deficit will rise above $300 billion, and stay there. Even the administration's own, ever-optimistic budget officials now concede that we face deficits as far as the eye can see. Meanwhile, payrolls continue to decline; since the working-age population keeps rising, it's becoming ever harder for ordinary Americans to get jobs, or keep them. 
 And there's a good chance things will get a lot worse: with markets sliding, consumers wilting, businesses fearful about the effects of war and oil prices rising, the pieces are in place for a full-blown double-dip recession. And the second dip would take us much further down than the first. 
 So can Mr. Bush convince us that his latest tax cut is just the tonic the economy needs?
 There are several reasons to doubt whether he can pull it off. For one thing, economists outside the administration, even those who always find ways to praise whatever he proposes, can't see what this tax cut has to do with the economy's immediate problems. This has led to a striking dissonance between what administration officials say on TV -- where it's still all about jobs -- and what they say when speaking to knowledgeable audiences. In background briefings for reporters, at the Davos conference this past weekend and wherever else they encounter people who might actually know something about the numbers, officials now pooh-pooh concerns about the state of the job market. Never mind that, they say, our plan is all about increasing long-run growth. Um, but what about "economic security"?
 The administration's credibility problem is made worse by the high casualty rate among top economic officials, and the uninspiring quality of their replacements. Today is the first day of hearings for John Snow, the administration's choice for Treasury secretary. One official I spoke to was rueful: "I thought Paul O'Neill wasn't suited to being Treasury secretary; he'd have been better off running a railroad. Now they've picked a man who ran a railroad." 
But that's not why he was chosen, according to CBS Market Watch: "He was picked because he's a lobbyist, a schmoozer, a master salesman" -- and a member of no fewer than nine country clubs. 
 Still, nobody razzle-dazzles 'em like Mr. Bush. Tonight we'll see if he's good enough to make us forget last year's promises. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); PRICE INCREASES (60%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); PAUL KRUGMAN (53%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



890 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: DIPLOMACY; 
Patience Gone, Powell Adopts Hawkish Tone

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27 

 BODY:
For months, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell has been the Bush administration's leading advocate of diplomacy, patiently applied, to rally the international community behind a campaign of pressure on Saddam Hussein to cooperate with United Nations inspectors.
 Today, responding to the United Nations inspectors' report, he sounded more impatient and less diplomatic. 
 "The issue is not how much more time the inspectors need to search in the dark," he declared. "It is how much more time Iraq should be given to turn on the lights and to come clean. And the answer is: not much more time. Iraq's time for choosing peaceful disarmament is fast coming to an end." Excerpts, Page A8. 
Mr. Powell insists he has been consistent throughout, arguing that he has always supported diplomacy backed by force.
But to Mr. Powell's friends and allies in and out of the administration, the shift in the secretary of state's tone has come about not only for personal reasons -- he is said to be truly exasperated by the French opposition to war -- but also for tactical reasons.
With Mr. Bush seemingly determined to disarm Saddam Hussein by force, Mr. Powell cannot afford to be a secretary of state out of tune with his president.
Mr. Powell said today: "Hang any label you want on me. I'm a great believer in diplomacy and a great believer in finding a peaceful solution. But I also recognize that when somebody will not accept a peaceful solution by doing their part of creating a peaceful solution, one must never rule out the use of force to implement the will of the international community, but more importantly to protect our people and to protect the world."
Mr. Powell's change in posture from apostle of patience to champion of rapid action was described by one administration official observing it from a distance as "astounding."
But people close to him say it is rooted in cool strategy. Mr. Powell remains determined to persuade Europeans that their best interest will ultimately lie in backing the United States if it decides to go to war.
Despite the fiery French demand that "nothing, nothing" justifies war, there are many in the administration who think that if the inspections are allowed to play themselves out through February, the French might ultimately be at the United States' side.
"We haven't given up on the process of the United Nations," said an aide to Mr. Powell. "But certainly even Powell is now talking within the administration about the option of going to war without United Nations approval."
Still, Mr. Powell is described by close aides as feeling as strongly as ever that an attack on Iraq without the support of France, Russia, China and other nations would pose a dangerous risk of igniting opposition and perhaps turmoil in the Arab world.
But those aides say he understands that American allies have to be reeled in without making it seem to the Pentagon that he is making too many concessions to bring them around. Tough talk enhances that objective, people close to the secretary say.
"He knows that if war can't be avoided, it must be done with the backing of the U.N.," said a foreign diplomat close to Mr. Powell. "He thinks he can achieve that goal by talking, talking and talking again. But he also has to look tough in order to get the administration's hawks on board."
At the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, over the weekend, the former archbishop of Canterbury, George Carey, rose to ask the secretary, who was raised as an Anglican, why the United States seemed determined to exercise the "hard power" of military force rather than the "soft power" of economic and humanitarian aid.
"I don't think I have anything to be ashamed of, or apologize for, with respect to what America has done for the world," Mr. Powell replied bluntly. "There comes a time when soft power or talking with evil will not work -- where, unfortunately, hard power is the only thing that works."
In Mr. Powell's memoirs, one of his dictums is: "Remain calm. Be kind." But the time for talking to allies calmly and kindly, aides readily concede, is most likely a matter of weeks now rather than months.
Part of the driving timetable is that although military officials say American forces will be ready to fight a war against Iraq in mid-February, they will be even more ready in mid-March. That gives Mr. Powell some time to work on the allies.
In the eyes of many in the administration, France is the key because with French support, Russia and China would likely feel more comfortable in supporting a war, or at least not vetoing a resolution authorizing the use of force.
If there is a chance for France to join a coalition advocating use of force in Iraq, it might have been suggested today by Jean-Marc de la Sabliere, the French ambassador at the United Nations, who said that the time for allowing inspections could be "several weeks."
Last week, French officials were calling for a delay of several months, and some were saying privately that they viewed a war as inevitable.
A delay of many months is unacceptable to American officials, not simply because it would probably not yield results in terms of changing Iraq's behavior. There is also a factor of sapping the morale of troops sitting out in the desert.
"Just leaving troops out there for some indefinite time while inspectors poke around -- that's not going to happen," said a State Department official. "That's not why we send armed forces abroad. We don't send armed forces abroad just to sit around."
But a delay of some weeks is possible, officials say.
"We can't rule anything out, even from the French,' said an administration official. "If we spend time consulting, talking to our allies, that takes a little while to do."
Mr. Powell's friends and allies in and out of the administration say that his seeming evolution to a more hawkish secretary of state has come about in part for personal reasons. They say he has been truly exasperated by the way the French, as one diplomat put it, "sandbagged" him last week at the United Nations.
Aides to the secretary are still smarting over the way Foreign Minister Dominique de Villepin summoned a Security Council session on terrorism and then turned it into an occasion for his heated news conference in which he declared that "nothing, nothing," justified going to war against Iraq right now.
But officials say Mr. Powell was also irritated by comments of some British officials, including Sir Jeremy Greenstock, the British ambassador to the United Nations, to the effect that the inspectors needed more time.
"Powell got so wrapped around the axle, with the Brits, the French and the Germans, everything started to hit him at once," said an administration official. In public he appeared sober and statesmanlike, but aides said he vented his anger within his inner circle.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Powell responding to the arms inspectors' report. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INSPECTIONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (66%); TERRORISM (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%) WEISMAN, STEVEN R; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%) IRAQ; FRANCE; RUSSIA; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003 



891 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1958 words

HEADLINE: Slow and Low Is the Way to Go 

BYLINE:  By MARK BITTMAN 

 BODY:
IT cost me $30. I call it the Monster of Braising. I use it almost every day.
 Go ahead and sneer. I love my slow cooker. 
 Essentially a small, closed electric pot that provides extremely low and reliably even heat, the slow cooker is simple, safe and, as long as you don't try to stretch its capabilities, virtually foolproof. 
You may know it as the Crock-Pot. The Rival Company, now owned by the Holmes Group, trademarked that name when it introduced the product in 1971.
But slow cookers are made by a host of companies: Farberware, Proctor Silex, even Black & Decker. And recently, as the cookers have been given new looks and new functions, even food snobs like me are realizing their potential, albeit a little later than the more than perhaps 100 million Americans who already own one. Ask yourself this: Is it time for an attitude adjustment?
"The slow cooker is steadily growing in popularity," said Douglas Kline, a spokesman for the Target chain, which is based in Minneapolis. The company carries eight styles of slow cookers ranging in price from about $10 to $50 and is expanding the line.
"There is a trend toward eating meals in," Mr. Kline said. "Couple that with the reality that everyone is working and strapped for time, and the slow cooker is the perfect appliance."
The slow cookers you'll find at Target and at other national chains offer stainless steel or plain white exteriors, and incorporate programmable features like timers and automatic on and off switches, which make them even easier to use. They are still not chic, but, man, are they practical.
In recent weeks, I have used my Crock-Pot (it's a Rival, as are about 80 percent of the slow cookers owned in the United States) to make chicken stock, cassoulet, congee, choucroute garni, slow-cooked pasta sauce with ribs, black beans, white beans, lamb stew with olives and vegetables, short ribs with Chinese spices, and pork loin with milk and garlic.
While I was running errands.
While I was working.
In my sleep.
And I'm not joking.
None of the recipes I made was especially creative, but without the slow cooker they require at least intermittent attention. To make my Chinese-style short ribs, though, I unceremoniously dumped some ribs, soy sauce, water and a few other ingredients into the pot, turned the thing to low and went to bed. The next morning, my house smelled like heaven. The short ribs were tender beyond belief, and the stew was as delicious as any I've ever produced.
Talk about slow food! In fact, barring a return to the days of household servants, braising cannot get any easier.
Until recently, there has been something of a divide between the slow cooker and the adventuresome home cook. An interesting confluence of factors, however, is now bringing the two together. 
First, whenever there's a difficult economy, people turn to cheaper cuts of meat. Cheaper cuts of meat, of course, take time to tenderize. But these days, unlike those in tough economic times of the past, many more households have two breadwinners, making it unlikely that there will be someone home all afternoon to cook. And no one walks in at 6 p.m. and starts braising lamb shanks.
Second, those cheaper cuts -- lamb shanks, short ribs, pork cheeks, brisket -- are suddenly in vogue in the country's best restaurants, not so much because they're cheap (on the contrary, in restaurants they're overpriced) but because, among other reasons, they taste so good. 
Enter the slow cooker. As Patrick Hind-Smith, a senior buyer for Williams-Sonoma, said: "We added a slow cooker to the company's catalog a couple of years ago. I took one home to try it out and discovered cuts of meat I used to turn up my nose at."
The slow cooker's reputation, however, has long suffered from its image as the tool of the bored housewife, a machine filled with cheap meat and putatively convenient ingredients like cream of mushroom soup or taco mix (whatever that is).
At least for those in the crowd that considered "Mastering the Art of French Cooking" its culinary bible, the slow cooker was never much more than a bad joke. My wife and I received a Crock-Pot for our wedding in the mid-1970's. We took one look at the corn-and-vine motif, put it back in the box and returned it to the store. 
People with lofty culinary goals may have snubbed them, but most American households own a slow cooker. And those numbers are rising. According to a June 2002 study commissioned by the Betty Crocker Kitchens in Minneapolis, 80.6 percent of United States households have a slow cooker, up from 76.5 percent in 1996.
Sales of slow cookers, said Kelly Lockwood, vice president of global communications and design for the Holmes Group, rank just behind the microwave and toaster oven (neither of which is really suitable for cooking) in sales of countertop food-preparation appliances -- higher, for example, than blenders and way higher than food processors.
Sales of slow cookers slackened in the 1980's, as most people discovered the so-called joys of takeout, prepared and microwaveable foods, but the mid-1990's saw a resurgence, and now there's a veritable boom. Rival alone expects to produce five million Crock-Pots this year.
What should you make in yours? The mass-market press devoted to slow cookery is generally unhelpful, though recently I have seen some appealing chili recipes, discussions of stews made with real vegetables and, in the current issue of Better Homes and Gardens magazine's "All-Time Favorites: Slow-Cooker," a recipe for Cuban pork that I actually want to make. 
Andi Bidwell, senior food editor of Betty Crocker Kitchens, which publishes several slow-cooker titles each year, said, "Home cooks across the country may not be terribly interested in going way far afield, but they do want some new things." She mentioned Carolina-style pulled pork -- a natural for the slow cooker -- and an onion soup in which the onions caramelize effortlessly. 
Moderately experienced cooks can figure most of this out by themselves. It's likely that after you've tried a few recipes adapted to the slow cooker, you will create your own adaptations. On the second day of my proud ownership, I made stock, combining chicken, vegetables, parsley and water. I turned the heat to low and left the house; when I returned, it was done. This was not exactly creative cooking, but I could not have been more pleased. 
THERE are limitations: If you want browned meats, for example, you're going to have to do some skillet work before setting your pot to bubbling. You're probably not going to make dessert in the thing. 
What the slow cooker is best for is braising. Period. For the most part I want mine for those cuts of meat, and things like beans, that take a long time anyway. Indeed, for its ability to transform cheap cuts of meat with an almost unbelievable lack of input on the part of the cook, the slow cooker is worth the price. A six-quart programmable Rival Crock-Pot sells for $50 or less. (If you're frugal, look in a church thrift shop; you'll find the one I returned in 1976, or a similar model, for $6.)
The new slow cookers are not only pretty good looking, they feature innovations designed to make them easier to use. Some machines, for example, will switch on at a preset time, cook for four to six hours on high or eight to 10 hours on low, then automatically switch to warm. (The difference between high and low is the time it takes for the cooker to bring food to 212 degrees, the ideal simmering temperature; warm is between 140 and 160 degrees.) 
I'm not sure such advances are necessary. My machine has no more than a switch that says high, low and off.
For the recipes here, I did little more than take some of my favorite braised dishes, skipped the browning step (actually, I could not resist browning the meat for the cassoulet before adding it to the cooker), and doubled or tripled the cooking time. 
It doesn't seem to matter much. The slow cooker demands less involvement on your part -- in fact, stirring is counterproductive during the first hour or two, because it defeats the slow but steady buildup of heat in the closed environment. There are foods -- chicken, for example -- that you can overcook, but as long as you choose things that you want to cook to death anyway, it isn't going to happen. 
A couple of final recommendations. Unless you are interested in pushing things to the limit, don't mess around with recipes that have you add pasta or the like to already cooked meat at the last minute (or, in this case, at the last hour); if you want precise timing, switch to the stove top. Don't, of course, add uncooked meat to cooked meat unless it will have a chance to become fully cooked before serving; food prepared in the slow cooker must reach an internal temperature of 165 degrees for at least a minute in order to be safe to eat.
But as long as you don't rush things, this will not be a problem. And since rushing is not what this is about, you have nothing to worry about. Except, perhaps, your attitude.

PASTA WITH TOMATO SAUCE AND RIBS
Time: At least 4 hours

6 to 8 meaty spareribs, about 1 1/2 to 2 pounds
6 cloves garlic, peeled and lightly crushed
1 dried chili, or to taste
Salt and pepper to taste
1 28-ounce can plum tomatoes, chopped
1 pound penne or other cut pasta
Chopped fresh parsley for garnish.

1. If you like, brown ribs in a skillet before adding them to pot. Combine all ingredients except pasta and garnish in slow cooker. Cover and cook until meat is very tender, 4 hours or more on high heat, 6 hours or more on low.
2. Bring a pot of water to a boil and salt it. Cook pasta until tender but not mushy. Serve pasta with a rib or two, and a few spoonfuls of sauce, garnished with parsley.

Yield: 4 servings.

SHORT RIBS WITH CHINESE FLAVORS
Time: At least 5 hours

8 short ribs, about 3 pounds
1/2 cup soy sauce
1/4 cup sugar or honey
3 star anise
6 scallions, trimmed
1 3-inch piece cinnamon
5 nickel-size slices of ginger
1 teaspoon Sichuan peppercorns
Salt
Cooked white rice for serving
Chopped scallions or fresh cilantro leaves for garnish.

1. Combine all ingredients, except salt, rice and garnish, in slow cooker. Cover and cook until meat is very tender and falling from bone, 5 hours or more on high, 7 hours or more on low. Taste and add salt if necessary.
2. If you like, remove meat, strain liquid and refrigerate meat and liquid separately; skim fat from liquid, and reheat with meat. Serve hot over white rice garnished with scallions or cilantro.

Yield: 4 servings.

SLOW-COOKER CASSOULET
Time: At least 5 hours

1/2 pound small white beans, like pea or navy
4 cloves garlic, peeled and crushed, plus 1 tablespoon minced garlic
1 medium-large onion, chopped
2 carrots, peeled and cut into chunks
2 cups cored and chopped tomatoes, with their juice (canned are fine)
3 or 4 sprigs fresh thyme or 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme
2 bay leaves
1/4 pound slab bacon or salt pork, in 1 piece
4 sweet Italian sausages, about 3/4 pound
1 pound boneless pork shoulder
2 duck legs
Chicken, beef or vegetable stock, or water, or a mixture, as needed
Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
1 cup plain bread crumbs, optional
Chopped fresh parsley for garnish.

1. Combine beans, crushed garlic, onion, carrots, tomatoes, thyme, bay leaves and meats in a slow cooker, and turn heat to high. (If you like, brown sausage and duck legs in a skillet before adding.) Add stock or water to cover by 2 inches. Cover and cook until beans and meats are tender, 5 hours on high heat, 7 hours or more on low.
2. When done, add salt and pepper to taste, along with minced garlic. If you like, remove cassoulet from slow cooker, and place in a deep casserole; cover with bread crumbs and roast at 400 degrees until bread crumbs brown, about 15 minutes. Garnish and serve.

Yield: At least 4 servings.

GRAPHIC: Photos: HASTY PUDDING? NOPE -- A man -- Mark Bittman, left -- and his slow cooker are not easily parted, especially when meals go far beyond stews. Above, spareribs and tomatoes, served atop pasta. Left, cassoulet with white beans, sausage and duck legs. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)(pg. F1); WOULD BE GREAT WITH TUNA -- Pickle the cat eyes the duck -- or the sausage or the pork -- in Mark Bittman's slow-cooker cassoulet. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (88%); TRADEMARKS (71%); TRENDS (67%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (60%) COOKING AND COOKBOOKS 

COMPANY: JARDEN CONSUMER SOLUTIONS (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (83%)

PERSON: BITTMAN, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



892 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: 2 U.S. Banks Trim Operations in Brazil 

BYLINE:  By TONY SMITH

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
Despite Brazil's smooth transition to a left-leaning government, two major American banks -- J. P. Morgan Chase and Bank of America -- announced today that they were reducing their operations in the country.
 J. P. Morgan Chase said it was selling J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management, with 7 billion reais ($1.9 billion) of assets, to Banco Bradesco. It did not disclose the sale price. Morgan Fleming is based in Sao Paulo. 
 Bank of America, meanwhile, said it was cutting back its Brazilian operation sharply, eliminating at least three-fourths of its work force of 200. Bank employees in Sao Paulo said operations were "practically shutting down," with investment banking activities and the trading desk being deactivated.
While the news was hardly a vote of confidence in the new government of President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, analysts said Brazil's major banks would be rubbing their hands at another sign they are gradually squeezing the foreign competition out of asset management and generally consolidating control of their home market.
With today's deal, Bradesco's asset management arm, BRAM, will manage more than 60 billion reais ($16.6 billion) of portfolios. Bradesco, Brazil's largest privately owned bank, has recently bought the local operation of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria of Spain in a stock-and-cash deal worth over $800 million, and also acquired the asset management arm of Deutsche Bank.
Bradesco's rival, Banco Itau, bought BBA-Creditanstalt from the HVB Group of Germany last year, after swallowing the private banking and asset management units of Lloyds TSB of Britain in 2001.
"Last year was a hard year for all of us, and it's difficult to paint an optimistic scenario for 2003," said Bruno Pereira, a bank analyst with UBS Warburg in Rio de Janeiro. "So either you make a bet that the markets will recover or you downsize."
"I think we must be getting close to the pinnacle of the mountain of risk aversion," said Tomas Awad at Itau's stockbroker unit in Sao Paulo. "Some of the foreign banks simply weren't making the returns they expected and their headquarters must now deal with that in a bear, rather than a bull market."
J. P. Morgan Chase's president in Brazil, Patrick Morin, said the bank was staying in Brazil but would now give priority to investment and private banking and local markets.
In New York, a Bank of America spokesman, Jeff Hershberger, said the downsizing was part of a drive to reduce exposure to emerging markets worldwide.
"We have now decided to restructure our operations in Brazil and Argentina to focus on the bank's global treasury services business in both countries," Mr. Hershberger said.
Bank of America's asset management arm in Brazil, which manages some 2.1 billion reais ($580 million), was not affected by the cuts but could be up for sale, analysts said.
Bank of America's track record in Brazil has not been the best, said Carlos Coradi of EFC, a banking consultancy in Sao Paulo.
After buying Banco Liberal in 2001, it discovered a $40 million hole hidden away in the institution's offshore operations in the Bahamas. It also made loans to the troubled soccer club Vasco de Gama and the crisis-ridden business daily Gazeta Mercantil. Even loans to some of its foreign-backed clients turned sour. Elektro, a financially sound power generator in Sao Paulo state, was owned by Enron, while the local wireless operator BCP defaulted after ownership wrangles between BellSouth and a Brazilian banking family, the Safras.
"It looks like Bank of America got nothing right in Brazil," Mr. Coradi said. "It didn't do its homework and embarked on a few adventures."
Several Brazilian banks were swallowed by foreign institutions as the market opened up in the mid-1990's, but those that survived, like Bradesco, Itau and Unibanco, have expanded and now have retail networks across Brazil. They enjoy better brand recognition and have millions of captive clients -- Bradesco alone has more than 13 million -- to sell products to.
"When the foreigners came in, there was a huge process of natural selection, but the Brazilian banks that survived have discovered how to position themselves well," Mr. Awad said. "Brazilian banks are obviously less risk averse in Brazil, it's the risk they deal with day to day."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); PRIVATE BANKING (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; BRAZIL 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); UNICREDIT BANK AG (90%); BANCO BRADESCO SA (90%); BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA SA (90%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (90%); FLEMING ASSET MANAGEMENT (58%); ITAU UNIBANCO HOLDING SA (54%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (53%)

ORGANIZATION: J P MORGAN CHASE; BANK OF AMERICA CORP (BAC) 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); BBDC3 (BOVESPA) (90%); BBD (NYSE) (90%); BVA (LSE) (90%); BBVA (NYSE) (90%); BBVA (MCE) (90%); BBVA (BMV) (90%); DEUT (JSE) (90%); DBK (FRA) (90%); DBK (BIT) (90%); DBETN (JSE) (90%); DBA (ASX) (90%); DB (NYSE) (90%); ITUB3 (BOVESPA) (54%); ITUB (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (90%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%) SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; 

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (92%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); GERMANY (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



893 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1625 words

HEADLINE: Challenging Chefs With Odd Cuts 

BYLINE:  By AMANDA HESSER 

 BODY:
DAVID PASTERNACK, the chef at Esca in Midtown Manhattan, doesn't call in orders and isn't even sure what will come. But when Stephen Kaye, a member of Valley Farmers, a small livestock cooperative in the Hudson Valley, shows up, Mr. Pasternack takes what he can get. 
 Last Thursday, Mr. Kaye dropped by with a freshly slaughtered calf, which had been raised on its mother's milk in a pasture in Pine Plains, N.Y. It was doled out in large parcels to Il Buco, Compass, Inside and Esca. 
 Mr. Pasternack got the hind quarter. It's not a "primal cut" like a rack or loin, as he might get from a wholesale butcher, so he had to butcher it himself and find ways to use it up. He minced the finest parts to make tartare, dressed with olive oil and sea salt. From the top of the leg, he sliced scaloppine, which he lightly breaded and sauteed. And when all he has left are bones and scraps, he will braise them together to form a rich sweet ragu for pasta. 
The arrangement Mr. Pasternack has with Mr. Kaye is one that is becoming increasingly popular between chefs and small livestock farms up and down the Northeast corridor. The farmers raise excellent quality meats -- and often rare breeds -- on pasture, and restaurants, like Verbena, Daniel and Patio Dining, take them whenever they are available. Although the restaurants are far from depending entirely on these meats, a small revolution is building on their specials menus. 
From the farmers' perspectives, everything is going just as planned. Over the last few years, a number of small specialized livestock farms have started up, while others have gathered forces in cooperatives, all focusing their energies on the best publicity machines around: New York restaurants.
Tom Colicchio, the chef at Craft, began buying veal from a Pennsylvania farmer a few years ago. "I realized that if I was the only person buying from her," he said, "she was going to go out of business. So I started calling people for her." 
For many chefs, buying these expensive meats is less a political statement than a gustatory one. Rare-breed pork tends to be fattier and richer, and comes in all different sizes. Pasture-raised veal has a reddish color and a delicate texture. The lambs have finer muscle and a subtler flavor. And baby beef, which is meat from a calf weaned from its mother's milk, is something you almost never see on the commercial market.
Unlike most meats that are purchased from factory farms and broken down into uniform steaks, chops or loins, the products sold by many small farms are whole or partly whole, which leaves the butchering and use of the meat up to the chefs.
"It's a much more artisanal approach to cooking," said Peter Hoffman, the chef at Savoy on Prince Street. "You're getting all the cuts, and you have to figure out what you're going to do with them."
"If we buy a half of a veal or half of a pig," Mr. Hoffman added, "there are primal cuts that may be used for grilling and then there are other days that may be more about sausage." Right now, Mr. Hoffman has pork from both Niman Ranch and Flying Pigs Farm on his menu. A loin is grilled over wood and served with braised pork belly and sauerkraut. The pork belly is made from a rare breed called Gloucestershire Old Spots. Also on the menu is a charcuterie platter with house-cured soppressata and prosciutto made from Niman Ranch pork and mortadella from one of Flying Pigs Farm's Tamworths. 
"What it comes down to is we don't rely on anything being available," said Daniel Eardley, the chef at Washington Park in Greenwich Village. "If you get a whole side of a cow, you get it in and you fabricate it and that's what you have to work with."
But, Mr. Eardley added, "You get to work with product you don't normally see." Like veal kidneys, which the restaurant braises and sells as a special. Often, there's not enough to put on a menu, so those dishes are run as specials. Diners curious to taste veal kidneys would be wise to call ahead. 
At Craft on East 19th Street, when a calf comes in, Mr. Colicchio runs a special of bollito misto, which includes veal breast, tongue and brisket. The bones are used for stock and the scraps for tortellini. Diners are first served the meat, then the tortellini in a consomme made from the stock. "You have to be able to make terrines," Mr. Colicchio said, "And you also have to be a better cook and know how to cook an oxtail."
Not to mention being clever when the animal part you have to cook is too weird to put on a customer's plate. Mr. Colicchio, who feels his average customer is not quite up to veal kidneys, will sometimes slip them into the sauce when serving a more conventional cut of veal.
Those kidneys do not come cheap. But very few chefs, if any, are dealing with the meats for the thrill of economy.
"Part of what's happening," Mr. Hoffman explained, "is that these farmers don't have the advantage of economies of scale. But in exchange you get the flavor." 
And so, rather than having to shroud conventional pork with moisture so it doesn't dry out, Mr. Hoffman's cooks can put pasture-raised pork chops on the grill and leave them be. 
When he can, he buys from Flying Pigs Farm in Shushan, N.Y. (518-854-3844; www.flyingpigsfarm.com), which is owned by Michael Yezzi and his wife, Jennifer Small. "Her pig is the best pork I have ever eaten," Mr. Hoffman said. "It's astonishing in its rich flavor. There's not a whole lot of it. But any time she has it, we buy it."
Michael Otsuka and Diane Forley, the chefs at Verbena, buy Large Blacks, a heritage pig, from Flying Pigs Farm. "If you look at standard pork belly and put them side by side," Mr. Otsuka said, "it's almost twice as fat. It's really dense and flavorful with really white fat."
Flying Pigs Farm, founded in 2000, is one of a string of new livestock farms. "We started it," Ms. Small explained, "because we bought our farm out of the hands of a developer. We finally decided to raise pigs because it fit our schedule, because we both have full-time jobs and it also wasn't a big capital investment." In 2000, the couple had three pigs. This year, they will have as many as 150, all of them heritage breeds, like Gloucestershire Old Spots, Tamworths and Large Blacks.
"These breeds went out of favor when lard went out of favor," Ms. Small said. "They don't do well in confinement. They're not efficient." 
Mr. Kaye, whose farm is in Millbrook, N.Y., came to raising livestock with a more practical calling. He used to sell high-end produce to restaurants but finally gave in to the fact that the climate in the Hudson River Valley made it too difficult to compete with warmer states. (Valley Farmers is at 845-868-1826; www.valleyfarmers.com.) Animals, he said, fare well in the winter, and the local soil is better for growing grasses, the animals' main source of food.
Many of those farms have faced similar struggles breaking into the New York market. "It's just crazy to me," Ms. Small said, "that it's easier for a chef in New York City to get pork in Iowa than it is for them to get it three or four hours up the road."
But the tide is shifting. At least four livestock cooperatives have formed in the Northeast in the last five years. By pooling resources and having someone drive their meats to the city, they can deliver to order.
Most cooperatives have strict guidelines for membership. For Meadow Raised Meats (607-278-5602; www.meadowraisedmeats .com), which includes farms in upstate New York, for instance, farmers cannot use antibiotics or hormones and must practice intensive management of grass.
All farms and co-ops work differently, however. Some slaughter their animals when the time is right and then freeze the parts immediately. Others slaughter to order, which is preferable to restaurants. "They weigh them fairly regularly," Lydia Ratcliff, the manager of Fancy Meats From Vermont (802-875-3159), a cooperative, said of the animals her members raise. "Then someone orders a lamb to dress out at 30 pounds, so I then make sure I have a lamb lined up 60 pounds on the hoof." (Lambs "dress out" at half their weight.)
Amy Kenyon, the manager of Meadow Raised Meats, sends faxes to chefs letting them know what animals are coming available, then takes orders. The parts they don't want are sold by mail or at farm markets.
Most promotion is done by word of mouth, but there is also a fair amount of pounding the pavement. "I'll pick a block in Manhattan," said Tom Biggs, the director of the Vermont Quality Meats Cooperative (802-394-2558), "and I'll walk and look at menus and if they're offering a product that we sell, I look them up in the Zagat."
So far, there are just a few dozen restaurants that buy regularly from these cooperatives. And while that may seem bleak for the dozens of farmers, there have already been successes. Niman Ranch (www.nimanranch.com), which began as a small livestock farm, now uses the cooperative concept to sell nationally, as does Jamison Farm in Pennsylvania (800-237-5262; www.jamisonfarm.com), which specializes in lamb. Another site, www.farmtotable.org, has contact information for dozens of livestock farms in New York State.
One obstacle is that few farmers can sell their animals consistently year-round. Pork and beef can be seasonal, harvested in the fall, after the summer grasses are gone and the animals stop taking on so much weight.
Chefs don't seem to mind. As Mr. Hoffman pointed out, there is no alternative. "If you wanted to see what was available to me five years ago," he said, "Flying Pigs wasn't here. Stephen Kaye was just getting going. Amy Kenyon didn't exist." And, he added, Niman Ranch products weren't available in New York.
Five years ago, New York diners weren't eating much kidney, head cheese or Tamworth pork belly either.

GRAPHIC: Photos: WHOLE HOG -- Braised pork belly, loin of pork and spaetzle at Savoy. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. F1); FROM SMALL FARMS -- Above, Pico's roasted suckling pig with spinach. Top, rigatoni with lamb ragu at Il Riccio. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (89%); MEATS (89%); BEEF (76%); MAMMALS (76%); FACTORY FARMS (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%); MEAT WHOLESALERS (69%); PORK (69%) RESTAURANTS; MEAT; FARMERS; LIVESTOCK 

ORGANIZATION: DANIEL (NYC RESTAURANT); ESCA (NYC RESTAURANT); VERBENA (NYC RESTAURANT) 

PERSON: HESSER, AMANDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



894 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: Tough Road Ahead for Pittsburgh Symphony 

BYLINE:  By JOHN ROCKWELL 

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, Jan. 25 

 BODY:
When an orchestra loses, or is soon to lose, its music director, its managing director, its board president and chief executive, its development director and its resident conductor, and when it has a $2 million annual "structural deficit," is facing tough labor negotiations this summer, has seen its once-munificent endowment plunge by nearly $50 million, has hinted at bankruptcy and has at least considered selling its hall and merging with the local arts umbrella organization, one might come to the conclusion that the orchestra is in trouble.
 But maybe not. The leaders of the proud Pittsburgh Symphony are trying to portray its current situation as an opportunity, not a crisis. "It's very clear that the symphony is at a defining moment in its history," said Richard P. Simmons, the chairman, in an interview on Friday. "It is time for new energy and new ideas. We have an opportunity for great change." 
 Thomas Todd, a lawyer and the outgoing board president, went further: "The only people that have spoken to me that have raised this issue of a 'power vacuum' have been newspaper reporters," he said Thursday evening. 
But others dismiss his remark as cheerleading. "Everybody's nervous," said Hampton Mallory, a cellist and head of the orchestra committee. "It would be strange if they weren't, in this situation."
The Pittsburgh Symphony rightly thinks of itself as one of the country's major ensembles, and the playing at a concert here last night under Roberto Abbado, a guest conductor, especially in Richard Strauss's opulent "Also Sprach Zarathustra," reinforced that belief. The orchestra has a history of noted music directors stretching back into the late 19th century, including Victor Herbert, Otto Klemperer, Fritz Reiner, William Steinberg, Andre Previn, Lorin Maazel (a Pittsburgh native) and, now, Mariss Jansons, through next season.
The symphony's troubles reflect a broader context in arts organizations all over North America, orchestras especially. Many are struggling financially and, like Pittsburgh, being forced to confront a possible reduction in quality or ambition. But Pittsburgh has particular problems.
They can be traced to an aging and declining population in the city itself (450,000 to 275,000 over the last 25 years) and flat growth at best in the larger metropolitan area, now at 1.6 million people. Allegheny County is the second oldest in the nation, after Dade County, Fla. Major corporate donors have closed or merged with others no longer based in Pittsburgh (Gulf Oil, Westinghouse). "Pittsburgh was a vibrant city in the heyday of the steel companies," said Mr. Simmons, 71, whose own company, Allegheny Technologies Inc., used to be the Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corporation. "It might have been dirty, but it was vibrant. Now we're cleaner but not so vibrant."
For years, the orchestra relied on the city's leading families, like the Heinzes and the Mellons, to buoy its finances. "One might say we relied on them excessively if one had 20-20 hindsight," Mr. Todd said. "But it just was the easiest way to raise money." The result was a lower level of annual giving compared with other American orchestras.
When Mr. Jansons announced last spring that he would not extend his contract, it was partly because he felt discouraged by his inability to reverse a steady decline in attendance for the classical concerts (from 89 percent to 70 percent in the 2,665-seat Heinz Hall under his six-year watch, and from 200,000 annually 30 years ago to less than 100,000 today). Mr. Jansons had just accepted the directorship of the Bavarian Radio Symphony in Munich, and has since been chosen to lead Amsterdam's prestigious Concertgebouw Orchestra.
Gideon Toeplitz, the managing director for 16 years, called Mr. Jansons his "very close friend, joined at the hip," and said his resignation helped prompt his own announcement to the board in November that he would step aside in May.
But Mr. Toeplitz also said he simply felt, at 58, that he didn't have the energy to address yet another orchestral crisis, having already faced one in Houston in the 80's and another in Pittsburgh in the early 90's. "I don't see how all the orchestra's problems are going to be solved in the near future," he said. "The first day after I came back from vacation last summer, I didn't want to go to work. That was so much not like me. I knew something was wrong."
Over the last few years, Mr. Toeplitz has attempted various remedies, including the pioneering use in the orchestral world of hoshin, a Japanese management technique designed to create institutional harmony. They had some success, but each venture tended to be "abandoned because somebody didn't like it," Mr. Mallory said.
Mr. Simmons first became chairman in 1991 to oversee a fund drive that netted $65 million, but that didn't solve the structural problems, even with additional donations to create a reserve fund. Mr. Toeplitz cut back the seasonal classical concerts from 72 to 52 and brought in Marvin Hamlisch to lead an expanded pops series.
For a while, the market bubble of the late 90's made everyone, not just Pittsburghers, feel rich. The endowment swelled to a peak of $133 million in 2000. It has since fallen as low as $86 million and is currently at $88 million. That might still seem like a lot, but there are severe restrictions as to how much can be withdrawn. 
Always generous with salaries (in 1988 Mr. Maazel became the first music director to earn more than $1 million a year), the orchestra rewarded its musicians with a 13 percent raise over five years in 1998. Its annual budget is now $31 million (compared with, say, the New York Philharmonic's $45 million).
Mr. Todd, 60, said that his sequence of five one-year terms will expire this fall and that it was appropriate for him to step down. Mr. Mallory hinted that if the board felt he was needed, Mr. Todd might be persuaded to stay on. But the impression from a series of interviews is that the entire top leadership feels tired and ready to let other, younger people bring a fresh approach to Pittsburgh's problems.
Some have suggested, for instance, that neither Mr. Jansons, a Russian-trained Latvian, nor the Israeli-born Mr. Toeplitz ever felt entirely comfortable with the warm and fuzzy community outreach that orchestras like in their leadership these days. Mr. Toeplitz is a brusque, arts-oriented administrator, and proud of it.
Mr. Simmons left the orchestra board from 1999 to 2002; his wife was ill (she died two years ago Friday) and he retired from his company. Last spring, he returned as the orchestra's chairman, full of aggressive new ideas. Whether his enthusiasm for the new hastened Mr. Toeplitz's departure or is part of the spin in the wake of that resignation remains an open question.
"I'm not sure people understand yet that we are at a turning point," Mr. Simmons said. "It's a credibility issue. I don't think we've done a good enough job. If I do nothing else, we are going to make changes. I'm very direct. You'd have to ask Gideon if he felt that was a comment about him. I don't want to be part of an organization that fails."
Mr. Toeplitz professed friendship and admiration for Mr. Simmons. "His aggressiveness is something we definitely need," Mr. Toeplitz said. "He's a corporate C.E.O. of the classic type, a very dominant person, and a lot of things go his way."
Mr. Simmons, Mr. Toeplitz and J. Kevin McMahon, president of the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust, which oversees the downtown cultural district, all said that while the sale of Heinz Hall to the trust or even some kind of merger with the trust could be explored, right now no one has the $30 million to $40 million to pay the orchestra for the hall.
Then, of course, there are labor negotiations to contend with. Mr. Simmons said he hoped that a new managing director would be in place by early summer. Mr. Todd will be on the job for the negotiations, as will Mr. Toeplitz as a consultant. And while negotiations are expected to be difficult, especially for the 20 to 30 percent of the musicians who never accepted hoshin homilies, everyone's larger concern seems to be whether the city is prepared to sustain the orchestra's high quality.
"There are many people in town, most of them not symphony-goers, who are prepared to accept us becoming just a regional orchestra," Mr. Simmons said. "That won't solve our problem. The orchestra is crucial to Pittsburgh's image and economic development. If we fail, it won't be because we haven't given it our best shot."
Zachary Smith, the assistant principal horn player and vice president of the local chapter of the American Federation of Musicians, was pleased to hear that. "I'm not particularly concerned about the labor negotiations," he said. "The issue is more the long-term direction of the orchestra and the commitment to quality that it has always represented. There can be bumps in the road, but this is a question of staying on the main road or turning off onto some country road."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 31, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about problems at the Pittsburgh Symphony misstated the birthplace of its former conductor Lorin Maazel. He was born of American parents in France, not in Pittsburgh. The article also misstated the city's population. It was just under 335,000 in the 2000 census; it has not fallen to 275,000.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard P. Simmons, left, chairman of the Pittsburgh Symphony, is optimistic about the orchestra's future even though a number of executives, including the managing director, Gideon Toeplitz, right, are leaving. (Photographs by Scott Goldsmith for The New York Times)(pg. E8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (73%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CITY LIFE (65%); CITIES (65%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (57%) MUSIC; FINANCES 

COMPANY: ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INC (60%); ALLEGHENY LUDLUM CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA 

TICKER: ATI (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331513 STEEL FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT INVESTMENT) (60%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3325 STEEL FOUNDRIES, NEC (60%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (60%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (60%)

PERSON: ROCKWELL, JOHN; JANSONS, MARISS; SIMMONS, RICHARD P 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



895 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Suffering Through Election Day 

BYLINE:  By Michael B. Oren; Michael B. Oren, senior fellow at the Shalem Center, a research institution, is author of "Six Days of War: June 1967 and the Making of the Modern Middle East."

DATELINE: JERUSALEM 

 BODY:
After a quick visit to the mall where we ate ice cream, exchanged our old gas masks for new ones and bought several yards of nylon sheeting, my wife and I dropped the kids at home and went to vote. We entered the polling station holding hands, heads lowered, knowing that the decision we each were about to make might determine our children's fate.
 Elections are never a happy time in Israel. No streamers, no balloons, none of the campaign buzz crescendoing toward Election Day. If, by voting, Americans celebrate democracy, then Israelis endure it, suffering through a choice of more than 20 parties, each with its own unassailable platform, its singular vision of the state. 
 The issues, too, tend to be weightier. At any given hour, Israel faces many threats to its existence, from the danger posed by Arab armies and terrorists, to the economic crisis that has left more than 10 percent of Israelis unemployed and one out of five below the poverty line, to the ultra-Orthodox Jewish men who, by refusing to work and to serve in the army, drain the country of its resources and unity. Voting in Israel feels like playing an extreme version of Russian roulette, a bullet in every chamber but one.
Inside the polling station, we presented our identity cards and stood in line. In front of us was a family of Ethiopian immigrants, the men thin and wispy-bearded, the women tattooed, wrapped in traditional scarves. Behind was an elderly Russian couple dressed in fur-lined caps and snowsuits. The municipal official, a Muslim woman in a suit and matching head covering, checked off our names as we received the blue-and-white envelope in which to seal our ballots. 
Decidedly low-tech, voting in Israel involves standing behind a cardboard partition where the name of each party is printed on slips of paper. My wife went first, and dallied for some time, deciding. Then it was my turn. Confronted with the checkerboard of possibilities, I thought not only of our two children at home, but of our eldest son, a soldier in a combat unit. I considered our future -- not just five years but five days from now -- and the kind of country we, as Israelis, can create. I remembered the reasons I came here from America and remained to wrestle with life-and-death decisions. 
I put the envelope in the box and emerged shaking, practically in tears. It was not just the burden of decision; the privilege of voting in a sovereign Jewish state has always left me moved. Outside, an Arab news team from a Persian Gulf state was filming Israel's election, and I could only hope that someday our crews would be covering theirs. Finding my wife, we hugged and confessed for whom we had voted -- different parties. Then we went home to seal our windows with nylon in preparation for the coming war, and to await the electoral results.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Jonathon Rosen) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); POOR POPULATION (76%); MEN (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); POLITICS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); TERRORISM (53%) ELECTIONS; PALESTINIANS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: OREN, MICHAEL B 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (78%) ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



896 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
A KeySpan campaign takes swipes at the competitors who provide oil heat.

BYLINE:  By Nat Ives

 BODY:
KEYSPAN, the largest distributor of natural gas in the Northeast, has reignited the coldhearted competition between dueling home heat providers.
 One ad in the KeySpan campaign for home gas heat shows a family shivering in the cold after their oil burner breaks down. A neighbor who uses natural gas from KeySpan then offers his freezing acquaintances some shelter from the cold --albeit with a touch more condescension than warmheartedness. 
 The architects of the campaign are not worried about any consumer resentment of using winter's worst excesses to attack the competition and bring in new business. After all, in the marketing battle between gas heat and oil heat providers, aggressive ads are the norm. 
"People are paying attention when they're freezing," said Steve Crane, president at Cossette Post in New York, KeySpan's new ad agency. 
While this year KeySpan is implying that oil heat is relatively unreliable, in the past, natural gas and oil providers have tussled over everything from price to pollution. Oil heat companies have charged their competitors with confusing consumers with complicated bills and have suggested that natural gas is dangerous. "Unlike natural gas, fuel oil is neither flammable nor explosive and inhalation of oil fumes cannot cause death," reads a posting on the Web site of the New York Oil Heating Association, an organization of heating oil distributors and their business partners in New York City.
Natural gas companies play up the fact that most of the fuel comes from North America, contrasting that with the foreign -- and supposedly more unreliable -- supplies of their competitors. And each side has argued that its fuel is cleaner. 
While the nastier advertising tactics have become more muted over the years, some degree of bad blood is still flowing.
The new KeySpan campaign, the first from Cosette Post since it won the account in December, has one ad that does not attack oil providers. But the other, in both its television and radio versions, does not seem to pull many punches.
And in mailings to support the radio and television commercials, KeySpan directly invokes the brutal cold. "The Northeast is experiencing severe winter weather this year and there's no end in sight," states one piece of direct mail. "But will your burner hold out? Unfortunately, you just never know." 
John Maniscalco, executive vice president at the New York Oil Heating Association, said, "They're definitely implying that oil heat is going to break down."
Allen Gerber, director for corporate advertising at KeySpan, said he did not consider the campaign to be negative advertising. Rather these ads "put a human face" on a product that is not inherently interesting. "We'd never knock oil and say it's dirty," he said. "We would say gas is cleaner." 
KeySpan executives declined to disclose the marketing budget. But the company spent $1.7 million on advertising in major media during the first 10 months of last year and $2.6 million during 2001, according to CMR, a division of Taylor Nelson Sofres.
Mr. Maniscalco of the oil heating association said that KeySpan could regret its marketing approach. "We found out that going too negative works just that way, negatively," he said. "Knocking the other guy is usually perceived as sour grapes."
The group's current poster campaign in New York City is an example of kinder oil marketing, showing a nurse changing a baby on top of a modern oil heater, demonstrating cleanliness and economy of size, he said.
A recent campaign from the Metropolitan Energy Council, an oil heat association in the New York area, however, toed the line between salesmanship and scorn. In radio ads, a boy named Billy who calls himself an "oil heat geek," and his friends tell listeners the good news about oil. Nearly 523,000 people in the region decided to stick with oil and upgrade their old systems instead of replacing them with gas heaters, Billy says. He then adds: "It's not surprising, though, when you consider the alternative: gas heat."
Oil systems are no more likely to break down than gas systems, Mr. Gerber of KeySpan acknowledged. Both systems last 15 or 20 years, he said, but breakdowns are a crucial moment in efforts to convert consumers from oil to gas. 
KeySpan installed more than 57,000 gas systems in Long Island and New England last year, up from about 50,000 installations in 2001, according to the company. 
As the deep cold drags on, the picture only improves for heat companies.
Last Thursday and Friday, KeySpan customers in its New York City service area of Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island consumed more natural gas than at any time in the last three years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Keystone executive says the company is trying to "put a human face" on a product that is not interesting. "We'd never knock oil and say it's dirty," the executive, Allen Gerber, said. "We would say gas is cleaner." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); HEATING OIL (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); PETROLEUM WHOLESALERS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); RADIO ADVERTISING (78%); FUEL DEALERS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); BUDGETS (60%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (92%)

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (92%); NG (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (92%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (92%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (92%)

PERSON: DAVID W CRANE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



897 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Times Co. Posts 45% Jump in Quarterly Profit 

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
The New York Times Company posted a 45 percent increase in fourth-quarter profit yesterday on gains in advertising and circulation revenue and low newsprint costs.
 The increase was driven largely by a 10 percent rise in advertising revenue during the quarter, the chief financial officer, Leonard P. Forman, told analysts in a conference call yesterday. Revenue from entertainment advertising, which makes up 14 percent of the advertising revenue at the company's flagship newspaper, grew by 21 percent in both the fourth quarter and the full year. 
 Advertising in some categories that had lagged in recent quarters also rebounded, particularly in technology, which rose 26 percent in the quarter, and financial services, up 42 percent. 
For the fourth quarter, the Times Company reported net income of $107.5 million, or 69 cents a share, compared with $74.1 million, or 48 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.
These figures reflected an accounting change related to a widespread change in the accounting of good will and other one-time adjustments. Excluding those items, fourth-quarter net income would have been $106.7 million, up 23.9 percent from $86.1 million in the period a year earlier. Per-share earnings in the 2001 quarter would have been 56 cents.
Total revenue for the fourth quarter rose 7.6 percent, to $840.2 million from $780.6 million.
High-margin help-wanted advertising, which has fallen off sharply across the industry during the economic slowdown, increased in December -- by 17.7 percent at The New York Times and by 5.5 percent at the company's New England newspapers, company executives said.
But Brian Shipman, the senior publishing analyst at UBS Warburg, cautioned yesterday: "I don't think one month or two months make a trend. Help-wanted as a category for The Times and for the industry is probably finding a bottom here and is going to bounce along the bottom for a time."
The 8.4 percent growth in advertising revenue for the newspaper group in the fourth quarter did not offset the setbacks of earlier months; overall advertising revenue at the group declined 1 percent for the year, to $1.85 billion.
For the newspaper group as a whole, circulation revenue grew by 4.7 percent in the quarter, to $207.8 million, and by 8.6 percent for the year, to $825.2 million.
The revenue increase was driven by subscription price increases. But the same price increases, two analysts said, contributed to a decline in total circulation at The Times. Fourth-quarter daily circulation figures at the paper declined by 7.1 percent -- more than 60,000 copies -- to about 1,131,000, compared with figures in the period a year earlier, when the hunger for news in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks spurred a circulation increase of about 50,000 copies.
Fourth-quarter costs at the Times Company rose 2.3 percent, to $648 million from $633.7 million, excluding the accounting change and a charge of $5.9 million for job cuts in the fourth quarter of 2001. Including these adjustments, total costs and expenses decreased by about $2.2 million.
Newsprint, the second-largest cost for newspaper companies, had been at a low ebb of about $450 a ton for most of 2002, thanks to the weak advertising market and low demand for paper. The price rose slowly to about $480 by the end of the year. Two major newsprint companies, however, have announced a price increase of $50 a ton.
The company's joint ventures -- including New England Sports Ventures and The International Herald Tribune, and two paper mills -- as a group lost $5.7 million in the quarter, in contrast to a profit of $3.6 million in the quarter a year earlier. In January, the Times Company bought the Washington Post Company's 50 percent stake in The Herald Tribune for $65 million, the Times Company disclosed in its earnings announcement yesterday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (89%); NEWSPRINT (89%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLISHING (76%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (96%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES CO 

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (96%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



898 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Budget To Propose Billions In State Cuts 

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
With a lingering recession, anemic tax collections and dwindling reserve funds limiting options, Gov. George E. Pataki will propose a budget plan Wednesday that includes billions of dollars in spending cuts to core services.
 Those who had been briefed by officials in the Pataki administration said they expected a cut of at least $800 million in state spending on Medicaid. A state official familiar with the budget said a reduction in state aid to elementary and secondary schools of more than $1 billion would also be proposed. 
 Education and health care represent the two largest chunks of spending in this year's $89.6 billion budget, officials said. The governor has said that he would propose a budget that spent less for next year, and he has said he is against raising taxes.
Mr. Pataki was a picture of optimism at an appearance this morning with his two colleagues in the capital's leadership triumvirate, known for their power and influence over state purse strings: the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican, and the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Democrat.
"I'm going to put out the budget tomorrow," said Mr. Pataki, who sidestepped questions from reporters about the details of his plan to solve a cumulative $12 billion budget gap in this year and next.
Many said the cuts would be deep, because there were few other options now that the governor has apparently taken increases in broad-based taxes, like income taxes and sales taxes, off the table.
The governor has not ruled out any increases in fees, surcharges and other, narrower taxes. Already, the State University of New York has proposed a 41 percent increase in undergraduate tuition and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is considering raising fares by up to 33 percent, moves that have drawn sharp criticism from Mr. Silver, who noted that both boards were controlled by the governor.
Mr. Silver said today that the drastic cuts he was hearing about would only hurt localities, particularly New York City, which might have to raise taxes to cover gaps created by lower revenues and higher Medicaid costs.
In Medicaid, Mr. Pataki is expected to make changes that will result in $1 billion worth of savings for the state. The state now pays about $12 billion of the total $34 billion worth of Medicaid costs, because those costs are also borne by the federal government and localities, like New York City. 
Health care providers, nursing homes, home care assistants, pharmacists and hospitals can expect cuts in payments from the state for various services or health products. The governor's plan will also probably change the eligibility rules, perhaps even for children and families who receive Medicaid under a special program that extends benefits to the uninsured even if their income puts them above the national poverty line.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki worked on his budget address yesterday in his office in Albany. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MEDICAID (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); NURSING HOMES (76%); FAMILY (75%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); PHARMACISTS (71%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: BAKER, AL; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



899 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: Airlines Look for Profits In Overseas Routes; 
War Looms, but Competition Is Less Fierce

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG and MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
Despite the prospect of a war sure to cut sharply into international travel, airlines around the world are increasing service to and from the United States -- especially over the Atlantic -- as the battered industry presses its desperate hunt for profits.
 Large airlines face little competition from low-cost carriers on overseas routes and so have not had to cut fares there as much as in domestic markets. It is true that the airlines are offering their traditional winter-season sale fares on leisure travel. But those fares, as well as last-minute unrestricted fares paid by business travelers, still generate more profit than those on domestic routes. 
 As a result, many airlines that continue to cut back schedules and capacity closer to home are ratcheting up international service to American cities to levels approaching those in 2000, considered a boom time for the industry. 
"We've got to go where the demand is," said John Lampl, a spokesman for British Airways, which is operating slightly more flights to and from the United States now than it did at the end of 2000. Mr. Lampl said the airline's seat capacity this summer would be 8 percent higher than last summer. Its trans-Atlantic service is by far its most profitable business segment, according to company reports.
But a war with Iraq could bring the industry's ambitions down to earth. The Air Transport Association, the domestic airlines' main trade group, is predicting that international traffic will drop at least 10 percent -- compared with the same time last year -- if war breaks out. Trans-Atlantic traffic will drop at least 20 percent, the group said.
In February 1991, right after the start of the Persian Gulf war, trans-Atlantic traffic fell 44 percent from the month a year earlier, and travel across the Pacific 21 percent, the group said. Executives expect the drop will be less this time, because the slow economy has already hobbled travel for more than two years, and because travelers are more inured to the risks of flying since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
Still, executives say that anticipation of an American attack on Iraq has already led to a drop in advance international bookings. And the airlines acknowledge that their contingency plans in the event of a war will depend heavily on how events actually unfold.
"As a planner, there's no issue that's more in a category of waking you up in the middle of the night," said Henry Joiner, executive vice president for strategic planning at American Airlines.
There are already signs that aggressive capacity additions could backfire in this unpredictable climate. This month, KLM, the Dutch carrier that has a code-sharing agreement with Northwest Airlines, surprised the industry when it said it would not make an operating profit this fiscal year and would have to scale back operations, partly because of the threat of war. KLM had been adding capacity quickly last year; in December, capacity levels on its United States service were down only 4.3 percent from the end of 2000, according to Back Aviation Solutions, an airline consulting company.
Other airlines remain undeterred by the uncertainties.
American Airlines, the world's largest carrier, will increase its international capacity by 7 percent this quarter over the period a year ago, even as domestic capacity remains flat, said Jeffrey C. Campbell, chief financial officer of the airline's parent, the AMR Corporation.
Similarly, Lufthansa's trans-Atlantic schedule this summer is likely to reflect a 7 percent increase in capacity over the comparable period in 2000, said Thomas Winkelmann, the German carrier's vice president for the Americas. Lufthansa, meanwhile, is taking nine aircraft out of service in Europe because of weak demand.
"We are pretty optimistic for 2003, but of course we're also careful businesspeople," Mr. Winkelmann said.
Trans-Atlantic business accounts for a significant portion of overall revenue at European carriers, because domestic flights are so short and because low-cost carriers like Ryanair have eaten away at the older airlines' market share within Europe. Trans-Atlantic passengers produce 22 percent of Lufthansa's revenue and 19 percent of revenue at British Airways.
For carriers based in the United States, international flights account for about a fifth of passenger revenue, according to John Heimlich, an economist at the Air Transport Association. Northwest relies on such flights for 35 percent of its passenger revenue, and UAL's United Airlines for nearly the same portion of its total revenue.
Most important for the airlines, international routes are where they can get bigger profits, or at least narrow their losses. The longer the flight, the lower the cost to fly one seat one mile. A lack of competition from low-cost carriers gives the large airlines more pricing power on these routes. There is less overcapacity now in overseas markets, industry experts say, so planes fly more full on international routes.
In the first three quarters of last year, major airlines in the United States together had an operating loss of $5.9 billion on domestic flights versus a loss of $905 million on international flights, according to Back Aviation. Yet those airlines collectively eked out a profit on trans-Atlantic routes in the second and third quarters -- $5.7 million and $75.4 million.
Ticket yield for those airlines -- a measure of pricing power -- dropped 15.5 percent on domestic routes in the second quarter of last year versus the corresponding period in 2000, but fell only 5.1 percent on international routes.
All this has contributed to a scramble among the world's airlines to grab market share on routes to and from the United States. "Almost every European and Asian carrier has an eye on the U.S. market," said Daniel Solon, a senior airline consultant at Avmark International in London.
Though airlines flying over the Pacific generally have been slower to add back capacity, Singapore Airlines plans to increase its trans-Pacific service by adding a nonstop flight from Los Angeles to Singapore next year, said James Boyd, a company spokesman. It opened a one-stop route from Las Vegas last year, and hopes eventually to increase the frequency of its thrice-weekly trans-Atlantic flights from Chicago.
Singapore Airlines has been one of the most aggressive carriers in adding trans-Pacific capacity -- its seat count on those routes was up nearly 12 percent last month over December 2000, while its departures from the United States were up nearly 11 percent, according to Back Aviation.
Northwest is also betting heavily on its Asian routes, opening a new terminal in April at Narita International Airport serving Tokyo and expanding its Pacific Rim service.
US Airways, operating under bankruptcy protection, has added new flights to Caribbean cities from its hub in Charlotte, N.C., and will add service this spring to two cities in Ireland from its hub in Philadelphia, its main base for trans-Atlantic flights. In the second and third quarters last year, US Airways had an operating profit of $72.7 million on its trans-Atlantic flights, joining Continental Airlines and Northwest as the three American carriers to make money on those routes.
American Airlines will add trans-Atlantic flights to Rome and Barcelona, Spain, during the peak summer season, when Northwest will add service from Detroit to Madrid, in both cases routes that the carriers had not flown before. Over all, though, Northwest, does not plan to increase its trans-Atlantic capacity this year; its trans-Pacific capacity will grow 1 percent.
Though airline executives are quick to boast of their expansion plans, they have been vague about what they will do in the event of war. Many say they have contingency plans for a drop in passenger traffic, but need to see what unfolds before taking specific steps. 
Ben Baldanza, executive vice president for marketing at US Airways, said the carrier might initially respond by canceling one or two flights to London each week while it watches to see how much demand actually falls.
"We won't know until we know," said Philip C. Haan, Northwest's executive vice president for international operations. "We're prepared to react, but you have to have real-time information to react. We've lived through recessions and oil prices spiking and the gulf war. I don't mean to diminish the impact, but we've been through this many, many times."
Mr. Heimlich at the Air Transport Association said that the large jets used on many international routes would be tough to redeploy in current market conditions. When trans-Pacific air travel dropped off in the late 1990's because of the crashing economies in Asia, United Airlines was able to move some Boeing 747's to other routes. That option does not really exist now, he said, because the demand for air travel has fallen so much.
Jamie Baker, an analyst at J. P. Morgan Chase, observed that "airlines have been loath to discuss details regarding contingencies because it's likely few contingencies exist currently." 
"It's exceedingly difficult to plan for the unknown," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, United Airlines' new first-class lounge at Narita International Airport, which serves Tokyo. Above, a British Airways flight lands at Heathrow Airport in London. (United Airlines); (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C1); In 1991, United States workers assembled a pipeline to carry water to extinguish a blazing oil well in Kuwait. Another war in the Persian Gulf region is expected to cause a drop in international air traffic. (Reuters)(pg. C6) Chart: "Holding Their Breath"During the Persian Gulf war, international air passenger traffic fell precipitously. Nevertheless, as war looms again, the airlines have increased international service because those routes are more profitable. DURING THE GULF WARChange in total passenger traffic measured in revenue passenger miles, year-to-year Graph tracks Trans-Atlantic and Domestic passengers since 1990. RECENT SHIFT IN AIRLINE REVENUEChange for each passenger mile flown, compared with the comparable quarter in 2000 Graph tracks passenger miles flown since 2001.(Source: Back Aviation Solutions) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); AIR FARES (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (70%); CITY LIFE (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); EXECUTIVES (62%); TERRORISM (60%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (57%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (90%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (90%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



900 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: Tenants Vie With Landlords As Commercial Vacancies Rise 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK

 BODY:
As downtown office markets weaken across most of the country, property owners are discovering new and formidable competitors, right in their own buildings.
 Their own tenants have put more than 39 million square feet of space on the market at discounts as steep as 45 percent, brokers and analysts say. The tenants can afford to undercut their landlords because subleasing, even at a sharp discount from expenses, is better than continuing to pay full rent for unused space. 
 "The corporations are not in the long-term real estate business; they're just trying to mitigate their losses," said Jan E. Pope, a co-president of Jones Lang LaSalle, a real estate services firm based in Chicago that represents dozens of large corporate tenants, including Microsoft. "They're not worried if they undercut the building dramatically. There's a big spread right now between the landlord-offered space and the tenant-offered space." 
Howard S. Fiddle, an executive managing director of the national real estate services firm Insignia/ESG, who works in one of the healthiest markets, New York, said: "Sublease space as a percentage of overall space is at an all-time high. A lot of the sublease space that's available today is long-term, recently built-out space. It's truly competition for the landlords."
As a result, the demand for space has reached levels that brokers call negative. Rental rates are falling, property values are beginning to decline and some cities are already anticipating budget shortages from waning property taxes. 
"If they're trying to lease other space, and there's space in the same building on the sublease market at a 30, 40, 50 percent discount," said Robert D. Bach, national director of market analysis for another real estate services firm, Grubb & Ellis, "it gives the tenant a significant bargaining chip: 'Either you come down in your rent or I'm going to take this other space.' It's like having a new car and a used car that's almost as good on a lot next door. You can tell the new-car salesman, 'Look, you've got to come down.' "
Sublease space accounts for roughly 25 percent of all office space being offered for leasing in central business districts nationally, compared with only 9 percent in 1996, the last time that overall vacancy rates were at the current level, 14.8 percent, according to the real estate services firm Cushman & Wakefield.
The ability of tenants to sublease their space is governed by the lease signed with the building operator. In negotiating their leases, prospective tenants typically try to get as much latitude to sublease as possible, while landlords typically seek to limit the tenants' ability to rent to third parties. Subtenants are generally subject to the terms of the primary lease, according to commercial real estate lawyers.
Behind the sublease space is a pipeline of unused space that is not yet on the market, known in the industry as shadow space.
Because of the quantity of known sublease space and the unknown quantity of shadow space, said Stephen T. Sakwa, senior real estate analyst at Merrill Lynch, "even if you make heroic assumptions about leasing, then it's going to be a long time, in our minds, before we have healthy markets."
Low interest rates are helping developers stave off declines in the value of their buildings for the time being and provide ample refinancing opportunities, reducing the amount that landlords must pay their lenders. Eventually, though, falling rents can depress property values no matter how favorable the lending terms.
"If the rent is going down," Mr. Bach of Grubb & Ellis said, "the price you can get for the building is going to decline."
During the last real estate downturn, the average market value for commercial and industrial buildings in Los Angeles, for instance, fell 16.7 percent, to $808,266 from $970,798, as national office vacancy rates rose to 19.6 percent in 1992 from 15 percent at the end of 1988, according to a study by the Public Policy Institute of California in San Francisco.
Lenders and developers learned a hard lesson about overbuilding a dozen years ago, when waves of building owners and savings and loans defaulted amid speculative building of office towers that were put up before tenants had been signed to lease the space. Throughout the 1990's, developers and their lenders were restrained, typically making sure that a large, creditworthy corporation had signed a lease before construction of a building began.
But because many of those corporations overestimated their own potential for growth, commercial real estate markets now have overall vacancy rates, including sublease space, similar to those at the beginning of the 1990-91 recession.
"Everybody says we didn't overbuild," Mr. Bach of Grubb & Ellis said. "Nonetheless, we're in the same pickle."
Brokers and landlords said that companies had been encouraged to rent far more space than they could use -- by Wall Street, which demanded evidence of fast growth, and by cities, which offered tax incentives to companies willing to expand or relocate.
"They said, 'We've gone public and we've got to show our growth,' " Mr. Fiddle of Insignia/ESG said. Surplus office space, he said, "was on a spreadsheet to show the investment banks: 'Look, we're growing our business.' "
Now that those companies have laid off workers or canceled expansion plans, that space is sitting empty, and what is currently being offered for sublease may not be the end of it. Corporations have several incentives to withhold unused space from subleasing markets, including avoiding competing with themselves. A more powerful incentive to hold onto unused space is that accounting rules require corporations to write down the space as a loss on their balance sheets in the year when it is declared surplus.
"There's a lot more coming," Ms. Pope of Jones Lang LaSalle said. 
Much of the sublease space on the market now is new or recently refurbished by primary tenants on long-term leases, but it is still being offered at discounts up to 45 percent off the market rate, said Bruce Mosler, president of United States operations for Cushman & Wakefield.
That has put the tenants in direct competition with their landlords. For now, it is the tenants, the large corporations that signed 10- and 20-year leases to double their space, that are taking the losses.
Areas that have been dependent on one industry, especially one technology industry, are experiencing the largest increases in overall vacancy rates. The vacancy rate in San Jose, the hub of Silicon Valley, nearly doubled, to 19.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2002 from 9.8 percent in the period a year earlier, as technology companies shrank or disappeared, with about 219,000 square feet of sublease space and 902,000 feet of space offered directly by landlords. In San Francisco, it rose to 19.7 percent from 15.9 percent, with 3.2 million square feet of sublease space and 5.8 million feet from landlords.
Houston, despite years of successful efforts to diversify its economy, had a rise in the vacancy rate to 16.4 percent from 9 percent, with 800,000 square feet of sublease space and 4.8 million square feet offered directly. In Denver, where the economy relies heavily on telecommunications, rates rose to 17.6 percent from 11.8 percent, with a million square feet of sublease space and three million feet of direct space.
Washington and New York remained the healthiest markets. In Washington, government growth kept vacancy rates at 7.9 percent, up only 1.1 percentage points from 6.8 percent a year earlier, with two million square feet of sublease space and four million feet of direct space. In New York, the disappearance of millions of square feet downtown in the terrorist attacks helped keep markets stable. In Midtown, vacancy rates rose to 11.1 percent from 8.2 percent, with 9.1 million square feet of sublease space and 16.1 million feet of direct space.
As vacancy rates rise, rental prices are pressed down, a trend that could in turn put pressure on the value of the buildings themselves.
Already in some cities, office buildings are beginning to decline in value. In Austin, Tex., a city that vigorously pursued high-technology companies through the 1990's, office vacancy rates surpassed 20 percent last year. A report by the City Council's staff last week projected a $75 million budget shortage for fiscal 2003, citing the first decline in assessed property valuations in a decade. The total assessed valuation, the report said, will fall nearly 4 percent, to $49.2 billion from $51.1 billion. The value of commercial property, which makes up 27 percent of the total assessed valuation, will fall 20 percent, according to the report.
With overall vacancy rates, including sublease space but not shadow space, near 20 percent in many central business districts, analysts expect that it will be several years before markets reach equilibrium, generally considered a vacancy rate of no more than 10 percent.
Cities could suffer for years from a slackness in office markets.
"The buildings aren't worth as much as they were; owners will try to get them reappraised," Mr. Bach of Grubb & Ellis said. "That hurts city coffers at a time when cities are struggling anyway."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Competing With Their Customers"The struggle by landlords to rent empty commercial office space has heated up recently with the surge in tenants offering subleases at bargain rates. Year-end vacancy rates for central business districts, nationwide Graph tracks space for rent by landlords and space for sublease by tenants since 1995. (Source: Cushman & Wakefield)(pg. C1) Graph: "Data Update"Value of construction contracts for commercial and industrial buildings by region. Seasonally adjusted annual rate through December. Graph tracks regional in billions since 2000. NATIONAL IN BILLIONSDEC. '01: $63.1OCT. '02: 60.5NOV. '02: 59.3DEC. '02: 59.6 (Source: F. W. Dodge/McGraw-Hill Construction)(pg. C4) Chart: "Space to Let -- and Sublet"Central business districts with the highest proportion of sublease space in relation to overall vacancies. Stamford, Conn.SUBLEASE VACANCY RATE: 7.6%OVERALL VACANCY RATE: 17.9SUBLEASE SHARE OF TOTAL: 42.5 Midtown ManhattanSUBLEASE VACANCY RATE: 4.0OVERALL VACANCY RATE: 11.1SUBLEASE SHARE OF TOTAL: 36.1 San FranciscoSUBLEASE VACANCY RATE: 7.0OVERALL VACANCY RATE: 19.7SUBLEASE SHARE OF TOTAL: 35.5 SeattleSUBLEASE VACANCY RATE: 5.2OVERALL VACANCY RATE: 14.7SUBLEASE SHARE OF TOTAL: 35.4 Downtown, Manh.SUBLEASE VACANCY RATE: 4.4OVERALL VACANCY RATE: 13.2SUBLEASE SHARE OF TOTAL: 33.3 Midtown South, Manh.SUBLEASE VACANCY RATE: 4.5OVERALL VACANCY RATE: 13.5SUBLEASE SHARE OF TOTAL: 33.3 WashingtonSUBLEASE VACANCY RATE: 2.4OVERALL VACANCY RATE: 7.9SUBLEASE SHARE OF TOTAL: 30.4 BostonSUBLEASE VACANCY RATE: 4.0OVERALL VACANCY RATE: 14.8SUBLEASE SHARE OF TOTAL: 27.0 DenverSUBLEASE VACANCY RATE: 4.6OVERALL VACANCY RATE: 17.6SUBLEASE SHARE OF TOTAL: 26.1 ChicagoSUBLEASE VACANCY RATE: 3.9OVERALL VACANCY RATE: 15.4SUBLEASE SHARE OF TOTAL: 25.3 (Source: Cushman & Wakefield)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); BUDGETS (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%) REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); JONES LANG LASALLE INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); GRUBB & ELLIS CO (53%)

TICKER: JLL (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



901 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: State Unemployment Fund Is Operating in the Red 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
New York State's unemployment insurance fund ran out of money last month, forcing the state to borrow $418 million so far from the federal government, according to the New York State Department of Labor. The state has told the federal government that it may have to borrow as much as $760 million.
 The automatic federal loan means that unemployment benefits for jobless New Yorkers are not at risk. 
 But it may prove expensive, because the most recent loan, on top of two last year, means that the state will have to pay interest on its borrowings, according to the federal Department of Labor. If it had not had to borrow money at the end of the year, New York would have avoided interest charges of 6.3 percent on its $231 million of earlier loans, the principal of which has been repaid. 
And if all the money the state borrows is not entirely repaid by November 2004, New York businesses face an automatic tax increase under Labor Department rules.
That would be on top of an increase in state unemployment taxes that this year will cost companies an average of $50 more per employee, the state's Labor Department said. The increase, to an average of $360 per worker, is automatically imposed when the unemployment insurance fund goes into the red.
Gov. George E. Pataki, who presents his budget today, has said he is opposed to "job-killing taxes," and he has even proposed small tax cuts or incentives for businesses to create jobs in New York.
Texas is the only other state in the current recession that has needed federal help to pay its jobless benefits, although Minnesota has signaled federal officials that it may need a loan.
New York State's unemployment insurance program provides up to six months of benefits for jobless people who qualify; the maximum payment is $405 a week. Congress recently extended a separate federal program that gives 13 more weeks of aid to workers who have exhausted their state benefits before finding jobs.
Robert M. Lillpopp, a spokesman for the state Labor Department, said that "the long-term devastating effects of the World Trade Center disaster and the continuing national recession" are to blame for the fund's deficit.
Since September 2001, the state's unemployment rate has climbed to 6.3 percent from 5.2 percent, seasonally adjusted; the increase has been even steeper in New York City, where the jobless rate now stands at 8.4 percent, up from 6.6 percent in September 2001.
As a result, through mid-December of last year, the unemployment trust fund paid out roughly $650 million more in benefits than it did in the same period of 2001, according to internal fund documents supplied by the New York Unemployment Project, a frequent critic of the state's jobless programs. The project obtained the documents through a Freedom of Information Law request, said Jonathan Rosen, an organizer for the group.
The fund's revenues, too, rose last year, but by far less than withdrawals to pay benefits. Money from taxes climbed by about $213 million; the state also received $491 million from a one-time federal distribution, some of which went to pay off the outstanding loans.
Mr. Rosen contends that the fund's problems were caused not simply by the sharp increase in joblessness, but also by the Pataki administration's decisions to reduce unemployment insurance taxes on businesses and keep the fund's reserves low compared with the reserves in the funds of most other states.
"It's crucial that people understand that the state made bad tax choices, and that unemployed people are paying the price," Mr. Rosen said. Had tax rates remained at 1994 levels, he said, the state would have billions of dollars for benefits or services for the jobless.
The money would also be available to cover more unemployed workers, Mr. Rosen said. Fewer than half of all New Yorkers who lose their jobs receive unemployment benefits, while in Connecticut 75 percent do, and in New Jersey the rate is 57 percent, according to an analysis by the National Employment Law Project.
But the Business Council of New York State supports the practice of keeping fund balances low, even though its members are now facing an automatic tax increase at a time of widespread economic sluggishness.
"In Albany, there is a strong and never-ending temptation to spend pots of money, even when it is earmarked for other purposes," said Matthew Maguire, director of communications for the council. As for extending or improving benefits, he said, "the Legislature always has options above and beyond the fund balances."
Given the huge deficits that the state is facing, borrowing from the federal government may be a sound move, said Frank Mauro, executive director of the Fiscal Policy Institute, a labor-backed research organization. But, he added, "It shouldn't have gotten to that point." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (93%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); TAX LAW (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); TAX INCREASES (72%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (60%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%)

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



902 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey Tells College Leaders He's Cutting State Aid 10 Percent 

BYLINE:  By IVER PETERSON

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
After weeks of warning about big cuts in state spending, Gov. James E. McGreevey delivered the first specifics tonight, saying that New Jersey colleges and universities would face a 10 percent cut in their state allotment next year.
 Mr. McGreevey delivered that message during a meeting with the presidents of the state's public four-year schools, who left the State House talking of tuition increases and program cuts. 
 The meeting was one of several the governor has been conducting this week, promising "universal pain," in the words of a union leader, as he explains his plans to bridge a budget deficit of more than $5 billion. He is to deliver his budget message Tuesday.
Some members of the groups who got the bad news today speculated that Mr. McGreevey, by giving those most reliant on state money a taste of coming pain, was seeking to mobilize their support for a possible tax increase. 
Coming after his 5 percent midyear budget cut last year, the news that the state's $1.8 billion higher education budget will be cut by about $100 million left college presidents groping for words this evening.
"The bottom line is that these cuts border on the catastrophic," said Dr. George A. Pruitt, president of Thomas Edison State College, the adult education school. "The demand for public higher education in this state is the highest it's been since the baby boom, yet the economy of this state is deconstructing the infrastructure of higher education when it should be building it."
The governor met today with the presidents of Rutgers University, the College of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, the New Jersey Institute of Technology and the nine public colleges.
He would not discuss the cuts with reporters, but he crossed and recrossed the marble hall outside his office as he shuttled from one group to the next, including state employee union heads and groups that benefit from state transportation spending. 
The governor's spokesman, Micah Rasmussen, said the colleges and universities affected by the $100 million cut included community colleges and private colleges, which get some state aid. Presidents of those colleges are to meet with the governor later.
"He wanted to talk to these people face to face and personally," Mr. Rasmussen said, "and to explain that we've got a bad budget situation."
Richard L. McCormick, the new president of Rutgers University, the flagship of the state system, hinted at tuition or enrollment cuts after hearing the governor's news.
"These cuts will have impacts on our academic programs, and there will be impacts on access to the colleges and university," Dr. McCormick said after the meeting. "Since I've just learned about the cuts now, it's premature for me to say where they will be felt, but they are unprecedented and they will limit significantly our ability to fulfill our missions of teaching and research."
The presidents complained that the cuts announced today were all the more painful because a midyear reduction in state aid last winter had to be made up in less than half a year. Those cuts were followed by a 9 percent tuition increase for the current year, and the presidents said Mr. McGreevey had agreed that another tuition increase was possible.
Carla Katz, the president of the Communication Workers of America local 1034, representing 10,000 state employees, stood in a knot of angry union leaders as she described the governor's presentation of budget problems. 
"He promised universal pain and layoffs," Ms. Katz said.
The governor has been wary in asking for tax increases to help close the budget gap and until now has avoided talk of the kind of painful cuts discussed today. He has said he would not accept increases in the income, sales or corporate taxes, the source of about 69 percent of the money for the state's $23.6 billion budget. He has not ruled out tapping other sources, though. .
R. Barbara Gitenstein, the president of the College of New Jersey, said the 10 percent cut the governor mentioned would actually amount to closer to 14 percent of the $37 million the state now gives her college, because of the way the state pays for employees' fringe benefits. She said she could not say yet how she would manage.
"We can't just cut our way through this," Dr. Gitenstein said, speaking of her own budget. "Otherwise, when it is time for the state to invest in education, there won't be anything to invest in." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (73%); DENTISTRY (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



903 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: It's Gridlock In Hartford Over Budget And Layoffs 

BYLINE:  By PAUL von ZIELBAUER 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
Gov. John G. Rowland's proposal to lay off another 1,000 state workers on top of 2,800 already let go is not just adding to the pain as Connecticut wrestles with a ballooning budget deficit.
 The continuing layoffs, the largest in state government in more than a decade, are also highlighting an awkward three-way division of power -- among Democratic lawmakers, state labor unions and the governor -- that has proved incapable of forging the first square foot of common ground. 
 Mr. Rowland, a Republican, has steadfastly maintained that the layoffs are necessary to keep the state's ever-widening budget deficit from spawning a long-term financial crisis. Union leaders maintain that the governor is callously sacrificing state workers to protect Connecticut's corporations and wealthy residents from higher taxes. Democrats who control the Legislature, on the other hand, have refused thus far to vote on Mr. Rowland's proposed budget cuts, which they see as too dependent on spending cuts rather than on tax increases. 
The result has been gridlock at the Capitol. 
"Right now, they're in total standoff," said Chris Barnes, a political science professor at the University of Connecticut. "At some point in the near future we should see a breakthrough." 
The state's current budget, which ends July 1, has a $650 million deficit; the fiscal 2004 budget, only five months away, is projected to be nearly $2 billion out of balance. 
Mr. Rowland has asked the state employee unions for $450 million in immediate wage and benefit concessions; union leaders, rejecting the governor's request, proposed their own package this month that they said would include $1 billion in concessions. Mr. Rowland called the proposal a public relations stunt. 
The layoffs have affected many departments and occupations, though some of the most high-profile cuts have been to the Departments of Social Services and Mental Retardation, as well as to a state program that employs 100 blind workers. 
Mr. Rowland's budget chief said on Sunday that he would seek ways to restore the blind workers' jobs. 
"The governor does not need to be slashing programs that people count on when there is a clear and obvious choice that he could make tomorrow," said Jennifer Smith, a spokeswoman for a coalition of state employee unions negotiating with the governor's office. 
Though both sides held informal discussions on Monday, Ms. Smith warned against labeling them negotiations, and Chris Cooper, the governor's spokesman, said that the discussions had not continued today. 
Asked if Mr. Rowland was considering another round of layoffs to compensate for the lack of progress with union negotiations, Mr. Cooper said, "Until there is a legislative response to the deficit problem, or until there are concessions from unions from that side of the problem, the governor will continue to exercise the powers he has to balance the budget."
In the middle of the fray are Democratic lawmakers who have rebuffed the governor's demand for a vote on his deficit-closing spending cuts and tax increases but have also declined to use their considerable leverage to mediate between the unions and the Rowland administration. 
"They don't have time or the political energy to serve as arbitrators between the governor and the union," said Professor Barnes, who is also the associate director of the Institute of Public Affairs at UConn. Its recent poll showed that 8 of 10 people surveyed favored a new tax on residents with million-dollar incomes. "In large part, that's because they don't know what their own package is."
Though they favor using tax increases more than spending cuts to close Connecticut's deficits, Democrats in the State House of Representatives are divided on whether to impose higher taxes on all residents who earn at least $50,000 or to increase the state's sales tax to 7 percent, from 6 percent. 
A quarter-percentage-point increase in the state's current income tax structure would be a relatively painless way to raise $185 million in the current fiscal year ending July 1 and $715 million in the next fiscal year, according to House Democrats advocating the increase. 
For a Connecticut couple earning a combined $50,000 a year, the state income tax rate would rise to 4.75 percent from 4.5 percent and cost them an additional $27 a year, while an individual making $50,000 would pay an additional $90 a year, according to House Democrats. 
A couple earning $100,000 to $200,000 would pay $196 more a year if their tax rate went to 5 percent from 4.75 percent, under the Democrats' plan; an individual wage earner in that range would pay $184 more a year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); LAYOFFS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); DISABLED WORKERS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); TAX INCREASES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MENTAL RETARDATION (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%) LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%)

PERSON: VON ZIELBAUER, PAUL; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



904 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: WOMEN'S ATHLETICS; 
Female Athletes Attack Plans to Change Title IX

BYLINE:  By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
On Capitol Hill, the talk is of budgets and the State of the Union. In the United Nations, the looming war with Iraq eclipses all else. But girls who pole-vault and play field hockey gathered here today to defend Title IX, the law that expanded opportunities for them in sports. Their future is quietly being rewritten by a federal commission in a way that could cost female athletes nearly a million places a year in sports programs, according to one analysis.
 The Commission on Opportunity in Athletics is meeting here to approve its final report over the next two days. It is considering proposals for relaxing a key method schools can use to prove they are giving women equal opportunities in sports: showing that women's participation in sports matches their share of enrollment on campus. 
 The commission's report will come on the heels of the Bush administration's decision to oppose affirmative action in a Supreme Court case over admissions practices at the University of Michigan.
Supporters of the commission, convened in June by Education Secretary Rod Paige, have used language that echoed the president's criticism of affirmative action, describing Title IX as a quota system that cuts men from sports teams solely to satisfy a federal demand for proportionality.
"No one is calling for an end to Title IX, but everyone is calling for a fair enforcement of Title IX," said Eric Pearson, chairman of the College Sports Council. "The only ones who are objecting to any change are special-interest groups."
While women now represent 56 percent of students at colleges and universities, some half-dozen formulas the 15-member commission is discussing would allow schools to satisfy the law if as few as 43 percent of the participants in sports programs were female.
In the opening barrage of what is expected to become a protracted political battle over the future of Title IX, the National Coalition for Women and Girls in Education estimated that the proposals could cost female athletes 374,000 to 931,000 sports slots a year, or 7.5 million to 18.6 million places over a generation.
Its concerns were echoed by female athletes from several states and sports whom the group brought to Washington today.
"Not only is there still a tremendous gap in the resources allotted to girls' and boys' sports, the commission's proposals to change Title IX will result in hundreds of thousands of lost opportunities for high school girls across this country well into the future," said Donna Lopiano, executive director of the Women's Sports Foundation.
Danielle Owens, a sophomore who plays basketball at Maya Angelou Public Charter School here, said: "Basketball is my life. When my time of college comes around, I want the same equal opportunity that any boy in the world would have in basketball and other sports."
Susan Aspey, a spokeswoman for the federal Education Department, took issue with the group's estimates of how many girls stood to lose the chance to play sports under the commission's proposals, but she said the department had not prepared its own calculations.
"The bottom line is the commissioners, if they thought those worst-case scenarios were going to happen, I don't think they would have made the proposals they did," Aspey said.
She said that Paige supported Title IX, but "he does, however, share the president's concern that the department's Title IX enforcement efforts not require strict proportionality or otherwise unfairly affect boys or girls."
In a statement the Education Department released tonight, the leaders of the commission rejected criticism that witnesses were stacked against the law, and concern that 10 of its 15 members were from N.C.A.A. Division I-A universities. "Any reasonable person who attended the commission meetings knows that our process was open, fair and inclusive," said the two leaders, Ted Leland and Cynthia Cooper.
Given the ambiguity of public opinion on issues like affirmative action and Title IX, and the timing of the commission's final meetings, one political analyst predicted that the issue would cost the Bush administration minimal political capital.
"If unemployment were a little lower and Iraq weren't on the agenda, I think it would be gaining more attention," said the analyst, Frederick Hess, a scholar at the conservative American Enterprise Institute. He added that most Americans fell into a "huge, squishy middle margin" on the issue, "which you can manipulate doing nothing more complicated than redefining the terms you use."
"It's why the proponents of proportionality speak about fairness and opportunity, and the other side talks about quotas," Hess said.
Under Title IX, schools may demonstrate they are satisfying federal law through any one of three ways. 
The first -- and least open to dispute -- is the proportionality standard, in which an institution demonstrates that the participation of women or girls in athletics is proportional to their enrollment. The commission's recommendations would give schools varying degrees of "wiggle room," in the words of its supporters, and a "margin for discrimination" in the eyes of Lopiano, if they opt for this standard.
Former Senator Birch Bayh, one of the original sponsors of Title IX, said today that he did not believe it had become a quota system and noted that Title IX suits had gone to 8 of the nation's 12 federal appellate courts, all of which upheld the law. He added that 30 years after Title IX's passage, women represent just 42 percent of the slots in sports programs.
"Tell me there isn't more work to be done," Bayh said. "I don't think so."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donna Lopiano of the Women's Sports Foundation spoke against proposed changes to Title IX. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); WOMEN (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); FIELD HOCKEY (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (76%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (76%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (74%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); WOMEN'S SPORTS FOUNDATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



905 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: JAKARTA; 
2 Top Muslims In Indonesia Rebuke U.S. On Iraq Policy

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
The leaders of Indonesia's two biggest Muslim groups have declined an invitation to go to Washington, saying that they were offended by the Bush administration's policy toward Iraq.
 One of the leaders, Hasyim Muzadi, who heads Nahdlatul Ulama, the largest Muslim group in the country, also cited new immigration restrictions on Indonesian males in the United States as a reason for refusing to attend the annual congressional inter-religious prayer breakfast next month. 
 The announcement by Mr. Muzadi and Ahmad Sjaffii Maarif, head of the second-largest Muslim group in Indonesia, is considered significant because they are often invited by the United States Embassy to meet visiting American officials. They are introduced on such occasions as the embodiment of mainstream Islamic thinking here in the world's most populous Muslim nation. 
Last year, Mr. Muzadi, whose organization claims 40 million members, was among a small group of Islamic thinkers invited to meet Secretary of State Colin L. Powell during his visit here. Ten days ago, he met with the Assistant Secretary of State for Asian and Pacific Affairs, James A. Kelly, at the American Embassy.
Mr. Maarif holds two degrees from the United States, including a doctorate in Islamic thought from the University of Chicago. 
Explaining his decision not to attend the prayer breakfast, the usually politic Mr. Maarif said on Indonesian television tonight that "only idiotic people" would attend such a prayer session, scheduled from Feb. 4 to Feb. 7. The timing meant, he said, "that people could be praying for world peace at the same time as there was an attack on Iraq."
Earlier, Mr. Muzadi told reporters that he believed the prayer breakfast, which he attended last year, had little to do with his hopes for promotion of "peace and justice" by the United States. "Following its new immigration policy, which mostly affects Indonesian citizens living there and its plan to attack Iraq, I don't think the event is relevant at all," Mr. Muzadi said.
The Indonesian government has taken strong exception to Indonesia being added to the list of countries whose male citizens in the United States must register with the immigration authorities.
Indonesia is the only country in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations among the 25 nations whose citizens must comply with the new registration requirements. Indonesia was added to the list 10 days ago. 
Designed by the Bush administration as way of keeping track of potential terrorists, the policy takes effect next month. The Indonesian government has called it discriminatory. Under the new regulations Indonesian males now in the United States have until March 28 to show they have valid visas and working documents for employment or study.
In some ways, the boycott of the prayer breakfast by two of the most progressive Islamic leaders came as little surprise. Their public statements appeared to reflect the growing anti-Americanism in Indonesia as the possibility of a war against Iraq increased. 
The military and the police have begun to prepare for violence and unrest if the United States goes to war. The police announced the formation today of a committee to protect foreign interests in Indonesia. 
An expert on Indonesian Islam said today that Mr. Muzadi and Mr. Maarif had already been under pressure for being too pro-American. "These progressive leaders are often criticized for being too pro the United States," said Robin Bush, the director of Islam and civil society program at the Asia Foundation here. "If war breaks out, any association with the United States will be a political liability for them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hasyim Muzadi, of Nahdlatul Ulama, an Indonesian Muslim group. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); TERRORISM (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) ILLINOIS, USA (55%) INDONESIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



906 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: Israeli Voters Hand Sharon Strong Victory 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET

DATELINE: TEL AVIV, Wednesday, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and his rightist party, Likud, crushed Israel's Labor Party in parliamentary elections here Tuesday night, as voters vented their doubts about any prompt, secure end to the bitter conflict with the Palestinians.
 Amram Mitzna, Labor's chairman, called Mr. Sharon to concede less than an hour after polls closed at 10 p.m. Israeli television projected that Likud could win almost twice as many seats as Labor in the 120-seat Parliament. 
 Based on results from 99.9 percent of the polling centers, Likud won 37 seats, and Labor only 19 -- the fewest ever for the party with a mighty past.
Labor appeared still to be paying for Israelis' disillusionment with the Oslo accords, the all-but-dead 1993 agreement that was to have created a new era of peace and prosperity in the Middle East. Mr. Sharon, despite his as yet unfulfilled promise of peace and security, is widely viewed as the most dependable leader in a time of deep uncertainty. 
Another clear winner was an anti-religious party, Shinui, which appears to have surged to 15 seats from 6 in the last Parliament.
The party's name means "Change," and its rise reflected in part a protest against Israel's status quo. It also reflected frustration with the benefits and privileges the state offers to highly observant Orthodox Jews, subsidies that Shinui has vowed to curtail.
"We will change the face of Israeli society," vowed Shinui's leader, Tommy Lapid, at the party's boisterous headquarters here.
Likud's supporters, meanwhile, welcomed their leader with chants of "Arik -- king of Israel!" as they packed by the hundreds into the party's hall here. Quieting the crowd, Mr. Sharon, who has favored fierce military reprisals over negotiation to contend with the Palestinian uprising, presented himself as more determined than jubilant. He declared that Israel had unfinished work, from fighting terrorism to repairing its economy.
He began a new, more difficult political campaign to form a stable coalition government. For that, he may need to cajole Labor to abandon a pledge not to join him in a broad grouping of right and left. "Israel needs unity, Israel needs stability," he said, flanked by new Likud legislators. "Israel needs both quickly, before the crisis deepens further."
As a whole, the electorate's frustration and impatience for change have been only partly masked by Mr. Sharon's broad personal popularity, a source of Likud's victory. "It's all a vote against, not for," said Shmuel Sandler, a political scientist at Bar-Ilan University, of the outcome.
Israel registered its lowest voter turnout ever -- which at 68.5 percent is still a level of participation that the United States might envy. Nearly 79 percent of voters cast ballots in the last parliamentary elections, in 1999.
Politicians and political scientists said some voters sat on their hands in the belief that Mr. Sharon's victory was assured. But they said others stayed away out of anger at corruption scandals or despair of any party's curing Israel's ills.
Even so, Mr. Sharon's overpowering victory was a further sign of his dominance of Israel's center, and of the trust Israelis place in him, a scarred 74-year-old veteran of the nation's founding and its subsequent wars. Once a political pariah for his conduct of Israel's war in Lebanon, he was elected as Likud's placeholder candidate two years ago, when former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu decided not to run. 
On the campaign trail, even Mr. Sharon's Labor critics found themselves referring to him by his nickname, Arik, with affection.
Yet his very success against Labor could pose a problem for him, and for President Bush. It might result in the narrow, rightist government that Mr. Sharon says he wants to avoid -- and that would make the Bush administration strain to wring concessions from Israel in seeking an end to the conflict.
With Labor so diminished, Mr. Sharon might have trouble within his own faction if he offers Labor the powerful, high-profile ministries, like defense and foreign -- that might tempt it to join him. 
And there are other reasons that Mr. Sharon may have less room to maneuver in his second term.
In 2001 he was directly elected; Israel has now returned to a system under which the prime minister is chosen in parliamentary elections. The change makes Mr. Sharon more directly dependent on his party, whose other top leaders have staked out positions to his right.
Further, he is being investigated on suspicion of conspiring with his sons to conceal an illegal foreign loan, which he used to pay back an illegal foreign donation made as he ran for his first term. He has denied the accusations but so far has also avoided addressing them in detail.
Likud is also struggling with an investigation into vote-buying in its primary.
While Labor has pledged not to sit in a Sharon-led government, Shinui, which presents itself as centrist on security issues, has pledged not to sit with Shas, the ultra-Orthodox faction that is the fourth-largest party. Mr. Sharon could be forced to build his coalition from hard-right and religious parties.
"If it's going to be a religious right-wing coalition, then it won't be so easy to go forward with the peace process, and the prime minister will probably have difficulties," said a senior Likud politician, speaking on condition of anonymity. This politician predicted that if Labor sticks to its pledge, Mr. Sharon's new coalition will not last a year.
In theory, Israel holds parliamentary elections every four years. In practice, governments usually succumb to interfactional squabbling sooner than that, forcing new elections.
In the West Bank and the Gaza Strip on Tuesday, Israelis blockaded Palestinians into their cities, tightening already severe travel restrictions. In the West Bank city of Jenin, Israeli soldiers shot and killed four Palestinians in what the army described as clashes with armed men.
With some 30,000 public and private security guards deployed at polling stations, voting occurred without incident. But it also occurred without much enthusiasm, or so it seemed. "It doesn't matter whom we elect -- it's all going to be the same," said Eran Lavi, 30, as he arrived to vote in a sleepy polling station here this evening. "This is a lose-lose situation." He said he would vote Labor. 
As for Labor, although it has lost ground, some of the policies it has backed have become widely popular.
Yoram Peri, a political scientist at Tel Aviv University, pointed to this seeming contradiction between the election results and numerous polls here -- to the strong support for policies pushed by the left. Among them are uprooting settlements, unilaterally withdrawing from the Gaza Strip, and even the creation of a Palestinian state.
The problem, he said, is that Israelis do not trust the leaders of the Israeli left or of the Palestinians. Mr. Mitzna's calls for immediate negotiations with the Palestinians did not impress voters who believed that there was no one reasonable to talk to, or that Labor could not yet be trusted again to do the talking.
Another leftist party, Meretz, saw its position in Parliament shrink in this election. Its leader, Yossi Sarid, said he might resign. Dr. Peri said the travails of Meretz and Labor could open the way for "a new social democratic party on the left" that would "cut the ties with memories of the past."
But Mr. Mitzna and some other Labor leaders say they believe the party is also paying for its participation in Mr. Sharon's previous unity government, which blurred its image and blunted its ability to criticize Mr. Sharon's policies. That coalition lasted 19 months, until November, when Labor walked out in a dispute over financing for settlements. 
Mr. Mitzna, the mayor of Haifa and a former general, vowed to revive Labor as an opposition force. "The Labor Party under my leadership will remind Sharon and the entire public every day and everywhere that there is an alternative," he told supporters here tonight. "The Labor Party has a direction, it has an identity and it has a leader."
Ophir Pines-Paz, Labor's secretary, found cause for hope in noting that Likud had only 19 seats in the last Parliament. "And look at them now," he said.
He could also have noted the rise of the National Union, a far-right party led by Avigdor Lieberman that was not represented in the previous Parliament but won seven seats in this one.
Mr. Mitzna and Mr. Sharon plan to meet soon, and Likud politicians said that Mr. Sharon would continue to press Labor to join him. Other Labor leaders resisted Mr. Mitzna's pledge not to join Mr. Sharon, and while his party rallied around him tonight Mr. Mitzna could face a challenge for its leadership.
Further, politicians said, a national emergency like a war in Iraq might provide a face-saving way for Labor and Shinui to climb down from their positions and join a broad-based government, which the public broadly supports.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An Israeli Arab man, top, marked his ballot in Jaljuliya yesterday. Above, Orthodox Jews voted in Jerusalem. Exit polls showed that the Shinui Party, which opposes special benefits for very observant Orthodox Jews, increased its number of Parliament seats to 15 from 6. (Reuters); (Getty Images); Supporters of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon at Likud headquarters in Tel Aviv yesterday celebrated the party's overwhelming victory in elections. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)(pg. A8); Prime Minister Ariel Sharon celebrated with supporters last night. (Getty Images)(pg. A1) Chart: "Israel's Parliamentary Election Results"Prime Minister Ariel Sharons Likud Party won 37 seats in the election yesterday, with 99.5 percent of the polling centers reporting. But he will need to form a coalition with other parties in order to have enough seats in the 120-member Parliament to run the government. Members of the departing coalition are shown in bold. Graph lists current breakdown of parliament party and parliament after yesterday's election for the following parties: LaborLikudShasMeretzYisrael BeitanuShinuiCenterUnited TorahNational Religious PartyYisrael B'AliyaUnited Arab ListHadashDemocratic ChoiceOne NationNational Arab PartyGesherBaladHerutTa'alNational Union (Source: Reuters)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (79%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); RELIGION (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%); TERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



907 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Lawyers Respond to Threat of Doctors' Job Action 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT HANLEY 

DATELINE: SECAUCUS, N.J., Jan. 28 

 BODY:
Six days before New Jersey doctors plan a work stoppage over rising premiums for malpractice insurance, the state's trial lawyers counterattacked today, arguing that doctors and their insurers had created the problem, not lawyers and the victims of medical negligence they represent.
 Their contentions helped illustrate an issue with emotional arguments on both sides, doctors saying that greedy lawyers and frivolous lawsuits were saddling them with exorbitant malpractice premiums and threatening their practices, lawyers saying that doctors were trying to take away the rights of grievously injured patients to sue for damages. 
 Attitudes and language on each side in the feud grew angrier today, as Monday's deadline for the job action approached and the chances for passage of legislation to prevent it seemed remote.
At news conferences here and in Cherry Hill, officials of the New Jersey branch of the Association of Trial Lawyers of America appeared with clients who said they had lost family members or suffered severe injuries because of doctors' mistakes. They denounced the doctors for trying to persuade the State Legislature to restrict the rights of negligence victims to sue. 
Bruce H. Stern, the president of the state branch of the association, said the underlying cause of increasing malpractice premiums was simply medical malpractice. Other factors, he said, were recent heavy stock market losses by malpractice insurers and mismanagement. Mr. Stern contended that doctors were now threatening their patients' health for their own financial benefit.
"Whether you're in the mob or a physician, extortion is extortion," Mr. Stern said. 
Later in the day, the president of the Medical Society of New Jersey, which supports the work stoppage, denounced the trial lawyers as greedy because of their resistance to any limits on the size of awards to negligence victims for pain and suffering.
"They feel they should have unlimited amounts of money," the official, Dr. Robert S. Rigolosi, a kidney specialist, said in a telephone interview. 
"They're ruining a great health care system. The best and the brightest are not going into the field. Health care in the state is in jeopardy."
He said sharp increases in insurance premiums had left some rural towns in the state without neurosurgeons, left young surgeons just starting their own practices facing unaffordable premiums, and left peri- natologists, who handle difficult births, facing annual premiums of $200,000. 
"I have a friend retiring at age 57 because his insurance rate has quadrupled and he can't afford to run his office and stay in practice," Dr. Rigolosi said. He said he expected "thousands" of the 22,000 licensed doctors in New Jersey to join the job action by canceling their regular office hours and declining to provide nonemergency care.
"Emergencies will be covered," he said. "We'll make sure of that."
Bills to ease doctors' premiums' costs are bogged down now in the State Legislature, primarily over the issue of proposed limits on awards to negligence victims for noneconomic damages, commonly referred to as "pain and suffering."
The doctors want a cap of $250,000 for each such award. They do not want any limits on a victim's economic losses, like medical care and lost wages. 
Mr. Stern of the lawyers' association said today that the organization was opposed to caps. 
In Trenton on Monday, the Senate's Health, Human Services and Senior Citizens Committee considered a $250,000 cap on noneconomic awards to negligence victims whose injuries are not permanent. Both the doctors and the lawyers oppose that. The committee, after several hours of discussion, took no action on any measures and tentatively scheduled its next meeting for Feb. 6, three days after the scheduled start of the job action.
Among those the lawyers invited here to buttress their arguments was Norma Velasquez of Jersey City. She said her 12-year-old son, Eddie, died last April after he was mistakenly given too much chemotherapy during treatment for leukemia.
"All of a sudden my son turned black," Ms. Velasquez said. "He started gushing blood. His temperature rocketed up to 105. He said to me: 'Mom, I don't think I'm going to make it. The pain is too strong.' My son just passed away in my arms."
Of the excess of chemotherapy given to her son, she said, "This was just total carelessness."
A 24-year-old victim of cerebral palsy, Justin Mattes, 24, of Woodcliff Lake, N.J., was also present. He was stricken at birth because he was born in a breech position and lost oxygen and blood after the obstetrician failed to perform an immediate Caesarean on his mother, his lawyer, Frank Rodriguez, said. Mr. Mattes walks and talks with difficulty.
In remarks Mr. Mattes said he wrote, he said a $250,000 cap on pain and suffering awards was unfair to those permanently disabled by medical negligence.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mindy Cohen, right, with Norma Velasquez, who said her 12-year-old son, Eddie, died last April after he was given too much chemotherapy. (Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (94%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); NEGLIGENCE (90%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (90%); STRIKES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); DAMAGES (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (74%); NEUROSCIENCE (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MALPRACTICE; INSURANCE; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DOCTORS; SLOWDOWNS AND JOB ACTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR JUSTICE (56%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (51%) HANLEY, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



908 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
TENET TO CHANGE HANDLING OF UNINSURED PATIENTS

BYLINE:  AP

 BODY:
 Tenet Healthcare, one of the largest hospital chains, will alter the way it charges uninsured patients, offering discounted prices and pledging not to place liens on their homes, the company said yesterday. Tenet said it would charge uninsured patients the same lower rates as managed care programs and would help them apply for financial aid to pay bills. 
Tenet also said it would not pursue legal action against uninsured patients who are unemployed or without other significant income. The announcement came as the company faces a federal investigation into its pricing policies and supplementary Medicare payments. Separately, Chae-Hyun Moon, a heart doctor at Tenet's Redding Medical Center in Northern California who is being investigated by the authorities on suspicion that he performed unnecessary surgeries, will stop seeing patients because he is losing his medical malpractice insurance. Dr. Moon said in a statement that he would suspend his practice on Saturday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (88%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (88%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (88%); MEDICARE (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; INSURANCE 

ORGANIZATION: TENET HEALTHCARE CORP (THC) 

INDUSTRY:  SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



909 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 83 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
EARTHLINK TO CUT 1,300 JOBS AND CLOSE CALL CENTERS

BYLINE:  Reuters

 BODY:
 EarthLink, an Internet service provider, said yesterday that it would close several call centers and cut 1,300 jobs to save money. The company said it would close its call centers in Dallas, Sacramento and Seattle and would close a site in Pasadena, Calif., that provides technical support and customer service. The company said it expected to take a $41 million charge in the first quarter for the closings and it expected the move to reduce its operating expenses more than $20 million a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALL CENTERS (92%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (89%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (88%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (85%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: EARTHLINK INC (ELNK) 

INDUSTRY:  SIC7379 OTHER COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



910 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Verizon Ends Relations With Lowe & Partners

BYLINE:  By Nat Ives

 BODY:
Verizon Communications is ending its relationship with Lowe & Partners Worldwide in New York, completing a shift of creative assignments from the agency that began three months ago. Verizon spent $165 million for ads in major media during the first 10 months of 2002, according to CMR, a unit of Taylor Nelson Sofres. 
 A spokesman for Verizon in New York, John Bonomo, confirmed a report of the decision that appeared yesterday in the online edition of Adweek. The company is shifting the remaining creative assignments at Lowe to McGarry Bowen in New York and the New York office of Draft Worldwide, he said. 
 In October, McGarry Bowen was awarded the creative tasks for the Verizon corporate brand and image advertising that Lowe had handled. Draft handles direct marketing duties for Verizon and product ads. Draft and Lowe are units of the Partnership division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
As for the loss of the assignments, "this is simply an end to a process that began months ago," said Hollie Geren, a spokeswoman at Lowe, "and is in no way unexpected." Even so, the loss is a setback for Lowe, which was awarded most of the creative duties on the Verizon account in April 2001.
McGarry Bowen was opened last fall by John McGarry and Gordon Bowen, two longtime executives at large agencies.
Zenith Media in New York, part of the ZenithOptimedia Group, continues as the Verizon media agency. ZenithOptimedia is owned by the Cordiant Communications Group and the Publicis Groupe.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (77%); IMAGE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); DIRECT MARKETING (69%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (58%); CORDIANT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP PLC (54%); ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES INC (54%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); IPG (NYSE) (91%); PUB (PAR) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (54%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (54%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



911 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Chavez Raises Oil Production In Venezuela 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez's government scored a victory in Venezuela's political crisis by producing more than one million barrels of oil today, frustrating a two-month-long opposition drive to strangle the world's No. 5 oil exporter. 
 By raising production to a third of its normal rate, Mr. Chavez jump-started Venezuela's oil industry while setting back efforts by his opponents to force a February referendum on his rule. But the 58-day-old strike has put Venezuela on the verge of economic collapse. 
 Also today, the finance ministry extended for another week a freeze on foreign currency sales to protect the bolivar, which has lost 25 percent of its value this year. 
Mr. Chavez surpassed the one million-barrel benchmark by focusing on newer fields, where crude oil is easier to extract. But production may not reach two million barrels a day if the government does not revive older wells, said Ed Silliere, vice president for risk management at Energy Merchant L.L.C. in New York. "They are going for the lowest hanging fruit on the tree, the easiest to grab," Mr. Silliere said. "In a few weeks, it is going to be a struggle."
Energy experts warn that Venezuela has lost production capacity during the strike and that it could take months to restore it. Refining is curtailed, and Venezuela is purchasing its gasoline abroad.
Dissident executives at the state oil monopoly, Petroleos de Venezuela S.A., confirmed that production surpassed one million barrels, compared with a low of 200,000 during the strike. Oil provides half of Venezuela's government revenue and 70 percent of export earnings.
Mr. Chavez has fired more than 5,000 striking workers at the state oil monopoly, which employed 40,000, eliminating dissent and trying to increase government control over the semiautonomous corporation. 
State oil company executives warn the firings will make it even more difficult to reach full production.
Opposition leaders say the oil strike will continue. But they are scaling back in other areas, worried about a public backlash over food, gasoline and medicine shortages.
Most small businesses are open -- either because they never joined the strike or because they could not sustain losses. Factories, shopping malls, restaurants and schools may reopen next week, at least part-time, said Julio Brazon, a strike leader.
Citing political and economic turmoil, Venezuela's opposition called the strike Dec. 2 to force Mr. Chavez to call a nonbinding referendum on his rule in February. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); STRIKES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); EXECUTIVES (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); PLANT CAPACITY (73%); REFERENDUMS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); RETAILERS (69%); CURRENCIES (69%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (64%); SMALL BUSINESS (62%); RESTAURANTS (60%); DRUG SHORTAGES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (91%); STATE OIL CO OF THE AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC (SOCAR) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



912 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Mayor's Budget Plan Relies on Help From Albany and Labor 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg outlined his latest plan yesterday to balance the city budget, this time shifting the focus away from city actions and placing his trust largely in Albany and the city's labor unions to help close a $3.4 billion gap.
 The plan, announced at City Hall, avoided draconian cuts and widespread layoffs. But even as the mayor was wrapping up his budget address about noon, some city officials and budget experts cautioned that it could be short-lived. They said some crucial elements of the mayor's plan might have to be reconsidered as soon as today, when Gov. George E. Pataki is set to outline his plan to cut the state budget by billions of dollars. 
 The mayor is looking to Albany for roughly $1.7 billion in budget relief, asking for extra education aid and permission to tax commuters, among other things. But with the state facing a budget gap of $2 billion this year and $10 billion the next, several other city officials and budget experts said they thought the city should gird itself for reduced, not expanded, state aid.
Still, the mayor proclaimed himself optimistic that he would succeed in persuading Governor Pataki and the Legislature to help the city. 
"I think, realistically, some things will go wrong, but not everything," the mayor said.
In November, when the mayor took the highly unusual step of releasing a preliminary budget plan seven months before the start of the new fiscal year, the city passed an 18.5 percent increase in the property tax rate and agreed on $1.1 billion in cuts in city spending for the fiscal year that begins July 1. Yesterday, as he updated that plan, he turned his focus primarily to things outside the city's control: help from Albany and $600 million in savings that the city's unions would need to agree to.
There are no widespread layoffs in the mayor's plan to balance the budget for the next fiscal year, which begins on July 1.
The Police Department, which raised the possibility of layoffs this month, will instead raise $69 million more by hiring 300 traffic agents and directing them to write 1.7 million more parking summonses.
Bloomberg administration officials said they still planned to close eight firehouses this year, but City Council officials said they thought the closings could be averted.
The mayor did propose $551 million in more cuts and savings through June 2004. They include eliminating drug counseling programs in city jails, scaling back summer school for children whose attendance is not mandatory, and reducing stipends for adoptive and foster parents. Fees would go up, too: sanitation fines would double, to $100, and the price of marriage licenses would rise to $39 from $25.
The proposal also cuts the 10-year plan for capital spending by nearly 25 percent, which will most likely delay plans to build schools and repair some government buildings. 
The mayor, however, is mainly looking elsewhere, especially to Albany and the city's unions, as he seeks to balance next year's $44.1 billion budget. He said the city had already made cuts or found alternative revenues for $2.6 billion in city spending since taking office.
City officials rushed to release their plan yesterday so their requests could be heard before Mr. Pataki releases his austere budget today.
The commuter tax is the biggest part of the Mr. Bloomberg's gap-closing plan. It would lower the city's income tax but charge the new, lower rates not just to residents but also to commuters who work in the city.
"It is not fair to get a service and not pay your fair share of it," Mr. Bloomberg said of commuters, and he cited several examples of other localities, including the state, that base their income taxes on place of employment, not residency.
But that new commuter tax, which would be six times as much as an old one that was repealed in 1999, is given a slim chance of being approved by Republican state leaders.
"The governor has made clear that given the fragile nature of the economy that he's going to look at other ways than the commuter tax to help the city," Joseph Conway, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki, said.
Gifford Miller, the speaker of the City Council, praised the mayor for pushing for a commuter tax. Mr. Miller, a Democrat, called for such a tax last year, but the mayor declined, in part to spare the Republican governor in an election year. But Mr. Miller said he was concerned that the state could wind up harming, not helping, the city this year.
"What we have to be particularly concerned about is not what Governor Pataki will do for us, but what the state budget will do to us," Mr. Miller said.
The governor and the mayor find themselves on conflicting tracks over money. Mr. Bloomberg wants recurring revenues, like the commuter tax and state aid, while Mr. Pataki has proposed helping the city with one-time cash infusions of little or no recurring value.
Yesterday Mr. Bloomberg suggested that one of those cash infusions -- Mr. Pataki's pledge to get the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to pay the city $500 million in back rent in airport leases -- was not big enough. "My hope is we will do somewhat better than that," Mr. Bloomberg said, explaining that he is counting on $600 million in back rent and an additional $90 million a year in the future.
And Mr. Bloomberg implied that, should Albany not come through, the city might have to resort to layoffs, a word he assiduously avoided using.
"The fact of the matter is, if we don't have moneys, then the law requires us to cut back," he said. "And if you can't find alternative funding sources in Albany and Washington, and that's getting more and more difficult to do, then it would mean having a smaller municipal work force than we currently have. You can use any word you want.'
The mayor also continued to put the heat on the city's unions, calling on them to find $600 million in so-called productivity savings -- the equivalent, his budget book pointed out, of the cost of 12,000 city workers. The mayor outlined a list of possible savings, including payroll deductions for health insurance; lengthening the workweek to 40 hours; reducing the number of holidays; and creating a new tier of the pension system with less generous benefits.
Mr. Bloomberg said that his budget had no money for union raises. He vowed not to give raises until the unions agree to the $600 million in savings. Any raises after that, he said, would have to be paid for by further union savings.
His proposals got a chilly reception from labor leaders. And the mayor announced that the city was no longer counting on getting $233 million in such savings this year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Bloomberg delivering his budget address at City Hall. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) Chart: "LEDGER -- Closing the Gap"Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg yesterday announced his preliminary budget for the fiscal year that begins July 1. The plan for closing the budget gap combines measures proposed in November and new proposals announced yesterday. Figures are in millions. MEASURES PROPOSED IN NOVEMBER (NOT YET ENACTED) Commuter tax: Regional$962 transportation initiatives (M.T.A., bridge tolls): 200State actions: 200Federal initiatives: 200Improvements in work force productivity: 600 ADDITIONAL MEASURES PROPOSED YESTERDAY Cuts to city agencies: Back$487 rent for La Guardia and Kennedy Airports: 690State actions: 52 TOTAL FOR FISCAL YEAR 2004: $3,391 Some of the DetailsThe budget includes millions of dollars in small cuts and increased fees. Hire 300 traffic enforcement agents and deploy to congested areas to generate 1.7 million additional parking summonses, netting the city $69 million. Raise the fee for a marriage license to $39 from $25, and the cost of ceremonies to $39 from $25. Increase fines to $100 from $50 for sanitation code violations, generating an estimated $8 million. Cut 100 civilian and 70 uniformed positions from the Department of Correctional Services. Eliminate substance abuse programs at the city jails. Merge the departments of Correction and Probation. Cut 100 additional planned hires from the Administration for Children's Services. Increase fees to $20 from $15 for duplicate birth and death certificates, generating an estimated $2.7 million. Hold three annual county fairs in New York City parks (potential sites: Flushing Meadows-Crotona Park, Orchard Beach and a Brooklyn park) to generate $750,000. (Source: Office of Management and Budget)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (96%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (93%); MAYORS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CLOSINGS (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); POLICE FORCES (74%); CHILDREN (73%); PROPERTY TAX (68%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (63%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (63%); FOSTER CARE (60%); MARRIAGE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



913 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Bush Tax Cut Gets Backing Of Nominee 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
John W. Snow, President Bush's nominee as Treasury secretary, defended the administration's tax-cutting plans today against criticism from Senate Democrats who confronted him with his own previous statements about the need for balancing the budget.
 Testifying at his confirmation hearing before the Senate Finance Committee, Mr. Snow faced heavy criticism about Mr. Bush's $674 billion proposal as well as questions about the size of his own pay package when he was the chief executive of CSX, the large railroad company. 
 Despite that, Democratic lawmakers made it clear that they would not try to block the confirmation, and Republicans said that they wanted to schedule a vote in the Senate on Thursday.
Adhering firmly to the administration's script, Mr. Snow said the president's plan would help alleviate unemployment, which has jumped from 3.9 percent in 2000 to 6 percent now, and he asserted that the centerpiece proposal to eliminate taxes on most stock dividends would help middle-income people and the elderly as well as the very rich.
"I think that President Bush's recent economic growth proposal moves the tax system in the right direction," Mr. Snow said. "It is an investment in the American people and their future."
But Democrats quickly challenged his defense of the tax plan, which could increase the federal deficit to as much as $300 billion this year and next.
Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, unveiled a large placard that quoted Mr. Snow's pleas for deficit reduction in the mid-1990's. "A credible, systematic reduction in federal deficits, leading to a balanced budget, will bring major reforms," Mr. Snow was quoted as telling a newspaper in Richmond, Va.
Mr. Conrad then rolled out more charts that project a huge increase in Social Security and Medicare spending over the next several decades. 
Mr. Snow responded that "deficits do matter," but he said the projected deficits were still small relative to the size of the economy and were still manageable.
Today's hearing provided fresh evidence that Mr. Bush will have a difficult time passing his tax plan, even though Republicans have majorities in the House and the Senate.
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office is expected to predict on Wednesday that the deficit will widen to at least $175 billion this year -- even without Mr. Bush's proposed tax cuts or the possible cost of a war with Iraq.
Many private economists think the deficit will hit or surpass $300 billion this year, a record, and administration officials are acknowledging that their own estimates are in the same range. 
Two Democrats who signed onto Mr. Bush's first tax cut plan in 2001 made it clear that they sharply disagreed with the plan to reduce dividend taxes, which would cost about $300 billion over 10 years and account for almost half the entire tax proposal.
Democratic lawmakers and some Republican moderates complain that, beyond its costs, the proposal on dividends would overwhelmingly benefit the very richest taxpayers and do little to stimulate the economy this year.
Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, and Senator John Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, both attacked the proposal on dividends. At least one Republican, Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, expressed strong reservations as well.
"I am a little concerned when I see the president's proposal of $674 billion, with 50 percent of it devoted to one proposal that doesn't have the broadest impact," Ms. Snowe said today. "I happen to think we should err on the side of prudence in evaluating the growth plan."
Unlike the previous Treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, Mr. Snow offered a careful and very limited statement about his views on the value of the dollar.
Mr. Snow reiterated the policy under both President Bill Clinton and President Bush that a "strong dollar is in the national interest." The comment pushed the dollar up slightly against the euro, in a brief pause to weeks of decline. 
But Mr. Snow added that "sound, pro-growth economic policies" are the foundation of a strong dollar, suggesting he may practice a policy of benign neglect if market forces continue to push the dollar down.
If he is confirmed, Mr. Snow would be one of the wealthiest members of the Bush cabinet. According to his financial disclosure statements, Mr. Snow will receive lump-sum payments of $40 million to $125 million from CSX. Though Mr. Snow voluntarily agreed to give up about $15 million in consulting fees and other benefits that he was due to receive on retirement, he will receive far more from cashing out his stocks and options and from lump-sum payments tied to his retirement benefits, a company-paid insurance policy and deferred compensation.
Mr. Snow also received special loans from CSX that helped him cover the cost of buying company stock, a practice that came under attack after corporate governance scandals at companies like Enron and is supposed to be restricted under new legislation passed last year.
Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, asked Mr. Snow whether he opposed such loans. 
"Yes, I do," Mr. Snow replied, though cautioning that such loans could still in some cases be useful to recruit senior executives. Mr. Snow, under prodding from Republican lawmakers, said his compensation at CSX was "standard fare" for Fortune 500 companies at the time. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: John W. Snow, President Bush's nominee as Treasury secretary, testifying yesterday at his confirmation hearing before the Senate Finance Committee. Mr. Snow called the billions of dollars in projected deficits relatively small. (Photographs by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. C1); John W. Snow, center, shakes hands with members of the Senate Finance Committee before the start of the hearing yesterday in Washington. Mr. Snow said the president's plan would help alleviate unemployment. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. C15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); TAX LAW (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); MEDICARE (72%); DIVIDENDS (71%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); IRAQ WAR (60%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (52%) TAXATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); KENT CONRAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



914 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION; 
Democrats' Response to Bush's Address to Congress

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from remarks prepared for delivery by Gov. Gary Locke of Washington in response to President Bush's State of the Union address, as provided by the Democratic Governors' Association. The full text is online at www.nytimes.com/washington.
 My grandfather came to this country from China nearly a century ago and worked as a servant. Now, I serve as governor just one mile from where my grandfather worked. It took our family 100 years to travel that mile. It was a voyage we could only make in America. 
 The values that sustained us -- education, hard work, responsibility and family -- guide me every day. I want every person to have the chance this country gave our family. But like many of you, I am concerned about the challenges now before us. 
Tonight, President Bush spoke about the threats we face from terrorists and dictators abroad. Many of the young Americans who fought in Afghanistan -- and who tonight are still defending our freedom -- were trained in Washington State. We are so grateful to them, to all the members of our armed services and their families, and we pray for their safe return. But the war against terror is not over. Al Qaeda still targets Americans. Osama bin Laden is still at large. As we rise to the many challenges around the globe, let us never lose sight of who attacked our people here at home.
We also support the president in working with our allies and the United Nations to eliminate the threat posed by Saddam Hussein and Kim Jong Il of North Korea. Make no mistake. Saddam Hussein is a ruthless tyrant, and he must give up his weapons of mass destruction. We support the president in the course he has followed so far -- working with Congress, working with the United Nations, insisting on strong and unfettered inspections. 
We need allies today in 2003, just as much as we needed them in Desert Storm and just as we needed them on D-Day in 1944, when American soldiers -- including my father -- fought to vanquish the Nazi threat. We must convince the world that Saddam Hussein is not America's problem alone. He's the world's problem. We urge President Bush to stay this course. For we are far stronger when we stand with other nations than when we stand alone. . . .
Today, the economy is limping along. Some say it's a recovery. But there's no recovery in our states and cities. There's no recovery in our rural communities. There's no recovery for working Americans and for those searching for jobs to feed and clothe their families. After gaining 22 million jobs in eight years, we've now lost two million jobs in the last two years since President Bush took office -- 100,000 lost last month alone. 
Two years ago, the federal budget was in surplus. Now, this administration's policies will produce massive deficits of over $1 trillion over the next decade. These policies have powerful and painful consequences. States and cities now face our worst budget crises since World War II. We're being forced to cut vital services from police to fire to health care, and many are being forced to raise taxes. We need a White House that understands the challenges our communities and people are facing across America.
We Democrats have a plan to restore prosperity, so the United States once again becomes the great job engine it was in the 1990's. It's rooted in three principles. It must give our economy an immediate jump-start. It must benefit middle-class families rather than just a few, and it must be fiscally responsible, so we have the savings to strengthen Social Security and protect our homeland. 
Our plan provides over $100 billion in tax relief and investments, right now: 
*Tax relief for middle-class and working families -- immediately. 
*Incentives for businesses to invest and create jobs -- this year. 
*Substantial help for cities and states like yours and mine -- now.
*Extended unemployment benefits -- without delay for nearly a million American workers who have already exhausted their benefits.
*And all without passing on the bill to our children and grandchildren through exploding budget deficits for years to come.
Now, as you heard tonight, President Bush has a very different plan. We think it's upside-down economics. It does too little to stimulate the economy now and does too much to weaken our economic future. It will create huge permanent deficits that will raise interest rates, stifle growth, hinder homeownership and cut off the avenues of opportunity that have let so many work themselves up from poverty.
We believe every American should get a tax cut. That's the way to create broad-based growth. But we shouldn't spend hundreds of billions of dollars on a plan that helps neither the economy nor the families that need it most, while making it harder to save Social Security and invest in health care and education.
Think about it. Under the president's proposal to eliminate taxes on stock dividends, the top 1 percent -- that's people who earn over $300,000 -- would get more tax relief than the bottom 95 percent of taxpayers combined. That's wrong. And it's irresponsible. Let's choose the right course, the successful and fair course, for our economy. . . . 
A year and a half after Sept. 11, America is still far too vulnerable. Last year, Congress authorized $2.5 billion in vital new resources to protect our citizens, for equipment for firefighters and police, to protect ports, to guard against bioterrorism, to secure nuclear power plants and more. It's hard to believe, but President Bush actually refused to release the money. 
Republicans now say we can't afford it. The Democrats say if we're serious about protecting our homeland, we can and we must.
Now, to strengthen America at home, there's much more to do. You and I know that education is the great equalizer, the hope of democracy and the key to the information industries of the future. 
In my state, we have raised test scores, cut class sizes, trained teachers, launched innovative reading programs, offered college scholarships even as the federal government cut its aid to deserving students. Democrats worked with President Bush to pass a law that demands more of our students and invests more in our schools. But his budget fails to give communities the help they need to meet these new high standards. We say we want to leave no child behind. But our schools need more than kind words about education from Washington, D.C. We need a real partnership to renew our schools. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FAMILY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); AL-QAEDA (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (68%); DESERT STORM (66%); ARMED FORCES (66%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); GARY LOCKE (73%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (52%); KIM JONG IL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



915 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: White House Suggests Budget Deficit May Set a Record and Exceed $300 Billion 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
White House officials suggested today that the federal budget deficit could surpass $300 billion this year, setting a record as President Bush pushes plans for big tax cuts and new spending for the military and homeland security.
 Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, told the Reuters news service that the deficit could hit 3 percent of gross domestic product, which would put the deficit above $300 billion. 
 That is slightly higher than what Mr. Daniels and other administration officials have been hinting in recent weeks, but many outside economists say the actual deficits could turn out to be even higher, especially if the United States goes to war with Iraq. 
The administration is expected to propose an increase of about 8 percent for domestic security programs as well as sizable increase in military spending. 
An administration official also said today that President Bush's plan to provide new prescription drug benefits to the elderly and to overhaul the Medicare program would cost about $400 billion over 10 years. That would be more expensive than the program supported by House Republicans last year, though less that what Democratic lawmakers have been urging.
By any measure, the government's financial situation continues to worsen by the week. Because of slow economic growth and declining stock prices over the last year, tax revenue fell sharply from October through December.
The Congressional Budget Office, the nonpartisan agency that makes its own estimates of fiscal trends, is expected to report on Wednesday that the deficit for 2003 will be at least $175 billion -- but that is without any allowance for Mr. Bush's $674 billion, 10-year tax plan or the costs of a possible war.
Democrats on the House Budget Committee, after factoring in the cost of Mr. Bush's proposals as well as the latest data on revenue, predict that the deficit this year could hit $306 billion and that the government will run up $1.7 trillion in deficits by the end of 2011.
Administration officials and Republican lawmakers insist that the deficits are still small in relation to the size of the total economy. A deficit equal to 3 percent of gross domestic product would be twice as high as last year's figure, but it would still be a much smaller share of total economic output than the deficit of 1983 under President Reagan, which was 6 percent of gross domestic product.
Democratic lawmakers have stepped up their attacks on President Bush's tax-cutting plans. Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the most senior Democrat on the Senate Budget Committee, noted that the government projected a 10-year surplus of $5.6 trillion just two years ago. Today, he said, the outlook is for a 10-year deficit of $1.5 trillion.
"That's a $7 trillion turn," Mr. Conrad said. "What bothers me is that we are in the sweet spot of the economic cycle right now," because the trust funds for Social Security and Medicare are still running big surpluses. But as today's baby boomers begin to hit retirement age, those funds will be paying out much more than they take in. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TRENDS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (73%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (53%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (58%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); MITCH DANIELS (73%); KENT CONRAD (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



916 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION: IRAQ; 
Hussein Under Growing Fire in Arab Lands; War Called Inevitable

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: CAIRO, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
Even as some senior Arab officials were suggesting today that arms inspectors in Iraq be given more time, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt began preparing his country for what he called an inevitable conflict. 
 In a change reflected across the Arab world, more bellicose attacks against Saddam Hussein could be heard today, blaming his megalomania for any horrors lying ahead. 
 At the same time, there is scant support in the Arab world for an American-led attack on Iraq, largely because nobody believes that Washington will fulfill whatever post-Hussein vision it is now promoting. 
As evidence, commentators pointed to the re-election of Ariel Sharon as Israel's prime minister, with his expected further crackdown on Palestinians, in tandem with the utter lack of progress toward the Palestinian state that the Bush administration maintains it supports. 
"If the U.S. was serious about launching a wave of political change toward democracy, it should solve the Israeli conflict first," said Kamal Hamdan, a Lebanese economist. "While we watch this tragedy unfolding in Palestine, we see 200,000 soldiers preparing to attack Iraq with no guarantee of solving any problem."
President Mubarak, in an interview with a Persian Gulf newspaper that was splashed across the front pages at home, said the likelihood of war was as clear as an open book. "The strike is coming, coming unless Iraq abides by the resolutions of the international legitimacy and unless it stops putting obstacles in front of international arms inspectors," he told Al Itihad, a United Arab Emirates newspaper.
Mr. Mubarak said he had sent messages to President Saddam Hussein warning him against the coming carnage, much as he had in 1990 after the Iraqi leader invaded Kuwait. 
"I called or wrote him 32 times warning him of the dangers of his position, but he ignored those calls and warnings," the president said. 
The Egyptian press has joined in the chorus of accusations against Mr. Hussein. A cartoon over the weekend in the semiofficial daily Al Ahram showed him flexing his biceps, which are drawn as a time bomb. The newspaper's editor, Ibrahim Nafie, reviewed the history of Mr. Hussein's troubled relations with the Arab world. 
"He remains the same man who plunged his country into war after war and who used weapons of mass destruction against Iranian forces and against his own people," the editor wrote. "The Iraqi leader pushes the situation to the brink with cries of defiance and without the slightest thought for the welfare of his country or his people."
An editorial in the weekly magazine Akher Saa suggested that Mr. Hussein was stalling for time in hopes of outmaneuvering the inspectors. "We wish that the Iraqi leadership would listen to the voice of wisdom in order to clear the dark cloud that overshadows Baghdad and threatens an unpredictable catastrophe," the editorial said. 
Similar editorials began appearing in other Arab newspapers, with some commentators suggesting that the theme would be adopted by all Arab nations as they begin to walk the line between what their Washington patrons want and publics fed up with what they see as repeated humiliation at the hands of the United States.
"All of them are preparing, but at the end of the day they will all blame Saddam," said Oraib Rantawi, a columnist for Dustour, a Jordanian daily. 
Laying the blame on Mr. Hussein does not translate directly into supporting Washington's position, however. "The Saudi papers are doing their best lately to say that Saddam is horrible," said a senior Saudi official. "But saying that Saddam is horrible is quite different from saying that America is justified in taking him out."
That will be the difficult stance that most Arab governments will try to follow for the duration of any war, Arab analysts believe, blaming Mr. Hussein for the conflagration while trying not to side too openly with Washington. 
"Today Saddam is winning every day in the court of public opinion," said Muhammad Kamal, a professor of political science at Cairo University, noting that Arab governments would have a tough sell in trying to blame Mr. Hussein. "Everyone thinks he is cooperating even if he is not," he said. "But there is no other argument. What else can they say?"
In the meantime, Egypt dispatched a high-powered delegation to the Unit ed States, including Gamal Mubarak, the president's son, to argue publicly against a war while evidently hoping Washington will do something to ease the deepening economic problems that Egypt will most likely face. 
In New York, Osama el-Baz, President Mubarak's chief policy adviser, asserted that an attack on Iraq would lead to more radicalization, rather than more liberalization, of politics in the Middle East. The immediate consequences in Iraq, he said in an interview with reporters and editors of The New York Times, would be "either chaos, or lack of hope."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, right, met with Gen. Tommy R. Franks, head of the United States Central Command, in Cairo yesterday. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (73%) INDIAN OCEAN (55%) EGYPT (95%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (92%); GULF STATES (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); LEBANON (79%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



917 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Bush Says Action in Iraq Is Needed Against Terror
President Bush presented his most urgent rationale for why the United States needs to prepare for military action soon against Iraq. In essence, Mr. Bush argued that military action was needed to avoid the risk of a Sept. 11-style attack using weapons of mass destruction. A11

Citing intercepted communications, interrogations of prisoners and information from defectors, President Bush said that the Iraqi regime of Saddam Hussein is building prohibited weapons and funding terrorist organizations, including al Qaeda. A1

Powell to Present Case on Iraq
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell will mount an extensive presentation of the case against Iraq next week at the United Nations Security Council, where aides say he plans to offer at least some classified evidence of its possession of prohibited weapons, administration officials said. A11

Election Triumph for Sharon
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and his rightist party, Likud, crushed Israel's Labor party in parliamentary elections, as voters vented their doubts about any prompt, secure end to the conflict with the Palestinians. A8

Fighting in Afghanistan
About 350 American, European and Afghan forces fought a fierce battle through the night against a large group of rebel fighters in a mountainous region of southeastern Afghanistan, an American military spokesman said. A1

Refugees to U.S. Delayed
Backlogs in the new security and antifraud checks have delayed the arrival of tens of thousands of refugees. Only about 25,000 of the 70,000 refugees expected to arrive in the United States last year made it. A3

Ivory Coast Accord Teeters
A French-brokered peace accord aimed at ending a brutal four-month-long civil war in Ivory Coast seemed to teeter, as the army rejected crucial elements of a power-sharing deal with rebel groups and aligned itself with supporters of Ivory Coast's elected government. A4

NATIONAL A20-22

State of the Union, Both Home and Abroad
President Bush combined an unflinching threat of military action against Saddam Hussein with proposals on health care and tax relief in his second State of the Union address. He defended pre-emption as the necessary response to terrorism and sought to increase pressure on his hesitant allies. A1

Mr. Bush argued that the surest way to stimulate the economy was by cutting taxes and encouraging investment, and put the onus on Congress to confront the deficit by holding the line on federal spending. A1

Mr. Bush said he would create a new Terrorist Threat Integration Center, to merge separate units at the C.I.A., F.B.I. and other agencies into a single entity intended to strengthen the collection and analysis of foreign and domestic terror threats. A19

Democrats Respond to Speech
Gov. Gary Locke of Washington, the Democrat making his party's rebuttal, faulted Mr. Bush's handling of the economy and national security. A13

House Backs Budget Stopgap
The House of Representatives approved a temporary spending measure, the seventh since the start of October, to keep federal agencies running while negotiators for the House and the Senate come to final terms on a spending package. A22

Officer Testifies in Miami Case
A retired Miami police officer testifying in the federal corruption trial of 11 former colleagues said that although he never saw the officers plant guns at crime scenes, as they are accused of doing, it was a commonly known practice. A20

Treasury Hearing Heats Up
John W. Snow, nominated for Treasury secretary, defended President Bush's tax-cutting plans before Senate Democrats who confronted him with his own statements about the need for balancing the budget. C1

Box Cutter Found on Plane
A plane leaving Logan International Airport in Boston for San Francisco was evacuated after a first-class passenger found a box cutter in the seat pocket in front of her. A19

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

City's New Budget Plan Relies on Help From Albany
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg outlined his latest plan to bring the city budget in balance, this time shifting the focus away from city actions and placing his trust largely in Albany and the city's labor unions to help close a $3.4 billion gap. B1

Leona Helmsley Testifies
Leona Helmsley, 82, defended herself in court against a former employee's accusation of bias against gays. B1

Neediest Cases B4

EDUCATION B10

New Jersey to Cut Spending
Gov. James E. McGreevey said that New Jersey colleges and universities would face a 10 percent cut in state financing next year. B1

Staff Shuffle in School Overhaul
People who knew the New York City school system's history are leaving it or losing influence. Outsiders recruited by Chancellor Joel I. Klein, including some who have never worked in a school system or in New York, are replacing them. A1

DINING F1-12

SPORTS D1-7

Team Moves to a Casino
The Women's National Basketball Association said it had sold its defunct Orlando team to the Mohegan Sun casino in Uncasville, Conn. D2

OBITUARIES A23

ARTS E1-10

Nazi Art Show Canceled
The Art Institute of Chicago, the first American museum to settle a case involving a work of Nazi-looted art, has canceled an exhibition and catalog called "Nazi Art Looting." A20

BUSINESS DAY C1-20

Corporate Reaction to Speech
Leaders from corporate America said they took heart in the president's sober assessment of the economy. Several noted recovery would not happen without a clear resolution in the Middle East. A16

Overseas Flights Increase
Airlines around the world are increasing service to and from the United States despite the prospect of a war that could cut sharply into international travel. C1

Delta Air Lines said that its new low-cost carrier, Song, would start flying on April 15 between New York and West Palm Beach. C6

Companies Back U. of Michigan
Some large corporations, concerned about recruiting women and members of minorities, are supporting the University of Michigan's court battle to preserve affirmative action. C1

Tenants Turn to Subleasing
Property owners face tough competition from their tenants, who have put 39 million square feet of space on the market at discounts as steep as 45 percent. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: The nation, the president, the war; an unacceptable nominee; Ariel Sharon's paradoxical victory.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E10
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PEACE PROCESS (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (71%); MOUNTAINS (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); TAX RELIEF (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (54%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); GARY LOCKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); COTE D'IVOIRE (93%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



918 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION: DOMESTIC AGENDA; 
President Vows Steps to Handle Domestic Woes

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER and ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
President Bush vowed tonight that he would not burden future generations with the nation's pressing domestic problems: growing budget deficits, a lagging economy and a crisis in health care.
 He offered few new specifics on how he would solve those problems, and Democrats asserted that some of his proposals could actually worsen them. But Mr. Bush, addressing one of the core critiques of his administration, argued that he "will not pass along our problems to other Congresses, other presidents and other generations." 
 He insisted that cutting taxes, spurring investment and re-igniting growth would be the best way to balance the budget in the future and to return the nation to sound economic footing. He also asserted that his economic proposal -- a 10-year, $674 billion tax cut plan -- would benefit all Americans, the working class as well as the rich. 
"This tax relief is for everyone who pays income taxes," he declared.
Mr. Bush repeated his call to speed up tax cuts that are due to increase the child credit and reduce taxes on many married couples. "If this tax relief is good for Americans three, or five, or seven years from now, it is even better for Americans today," the president said.
In a State of the Union address intended to show his attentiveness to the home front, Mr. Bush reminded his audience of the "compassionate conservatism" that was at the core of his presidential campaign. 
He also acknowledged the strains on the federal budget, the growing gaps in the health care system and the need to overhaul Medicare and Social Security before the baby boomers begin to retire, in just eight years.
Mr. Bush tried to seize the initiative on several issues traditionally associated with Democrats. He said he would spend $400 billion over the next 10 years to "reform and strengthen Medicare," with the addition of prescription drug benefits. He called for a $15 billion program to combat AIDS in Africa and the Caribbean.
Emphasizing the compassionate mantle he assumed as a candidate, he urged Congress to pass his "faith-based initiative" to encourage religious groups to perform more social services, and to "encourage acts of compassion that can transform America, one heart and one soul at a time."
He also placed himself in the ranks of green Republicans, with a handful of environmental proposals, including a request for $1.2 billion for research on "clean hydrogen-powered automobiles."
Democrats were scornful, arguing that Mr. Bush was promising the impossible -- a war without sacrifice.
"We're paying for this war by enlarging the deficit, cutting back on health care, cutting back on education, jeopardizing the Social Security and Medicare trust funds," said Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, the ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee.
"The economic sacrifice," Mr. Rangel said, "is disproportionately borne by seniors, working Americans and future generations who will have to deal with our debts."
On a day when his budget director suggested that the deficit this year could set a new record of more than $300 billion, Mr. Bush argued that the onus was on Congress to hold the line on domestic spending. 
"The best way to address the deficit and move toward a balanced budget is to encourage economic growth and to show some spending discipline in Washington, D.C." he said. "We must work together to fund only our most important priorities."
Mr. Bush signaled that he was ready for another fight over health care. While he offered no details, his proposal to revamp Medicare and make it more cost-efficient, by encouraging the elderly to join private health plans, raises the prospect of the biggest battle over health care in nearly a decade. 
Democrats and consumer advocates criticized the idea as an effort to coerce the nation's 40 million elderly and disabled Medicare beneficiaries into health maintenance organizations, using the carrot of prescription drug benefits.
But Mr. Bush received a bipartisan standing ovation when he declared that his goal was "high quality, affordable health care for all Americans." He was also applauded when he highlighted the problem of the rising cost of malpractice insurance. "Because of excessive litigation," he said, "everybody pays more for health care, and many parts of America are losing fine doctors."
Much of the domestic agenda tonight was familiar territory for Mr. Bush. He called on Congress, for example, to create private retirement accounts in Social Security.
He made some new proposals. He vowed to combat AIDS, asking Congress for $15 billion over the next five years to "meet a severe and urgent crisis abroad." He said that money would prevent seven million new cases of H.I.V. infection, treat at least two million people with life-extending drugs and provide care for millions infected with the virus.
Mr. Bush might face his greatest political challenge on Medicare, an issue sure to figure prominently in next year's Congressional and presidential elections. His philosophical position, in favor of market-oriented solutions, was not new, but he indicated he would spend more political capital in pushing them through a divided Congress.
He will need to do so: Combining prescription drug benefits with fundamental structural changes in the popular 38-year-old health insurance program makes the task of enacting legislation far more difficult, lawmakers in both parties said.
"Health care reform must begin with Medicare, because Medicare is the binding commitment of a caring society," he said. Mr. Bush said that "seniors happy with the current Medicare system should be able to keep their coverage just the way it is." But at the same time, he said, "all seniors should have the choice of a health care plan that provides prescription drugs." 
More than 85 percent of the 40 million beneficiaries are in the traditional Medicare program, which gives patients almost complete freedom to choose their doctors and hospitals. Their benefits are specified by law, and the government determines how much doctors are paid for each service they provide.
For years, conservatives and some centrist Democrats have argued that this structure is outmoded and costly, a vestige of the fee-for-service system that most working Americans left over the last decade, moving into H.M.O.'s, preferred provider organizations or other forms of managed care.
Critics assert that the traditional Medicare structure is too costly to be sustained after baby boomers begin to hit the retirement rolls in 2011. These critics also argue that managed care plans would do a much better job of coordinating care for the elderly. Whether they would do a better job of controlling costs is not clear from the available evidence, researchers say.
But efforts to push Medicare in that direction have, in the past, touched off political firestorms, most memorably in 1995 and 1996, when Democrats used the issue to devastating effect against Speaker Newt Gingrich and other Congressional Republicans.
Opponents maintain that Medicare is a fundamental social pact with the American people, a promise of benefits guaranteed by the government. 
They assert that Mr. Bush's plan is a first step toward replacing that promise of guaranteed benefits with a voucher to use in the private health insurance marketplace. 
Representative Pete Stark of California, the senior Democrat on the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, said: "It is clear that President Bush intends to privatize Medicare. He's cleverly using the promise of a meager drug benefit as a bribe to push Medicare beneficiaries into second-rate, low-quality health plans, putting seniors at the mercy of health maintenance organizations and the big drug companies."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Assembled cabinet members applauded last night as President Bush delivered his second State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); MEDICARE (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (69%); CONSERVATISM (69%); AIDS & HIV (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (64%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (64%); RELIGION (60%); MARRIAGE (52%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



919 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 5316 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION; 
President's State of the Union Message to Congress and the Nation

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Bush's State of the Union address, as recorded by The New York Times: 
 Every year, by law and by custom, we meet here to consider the state of the union. This year, we gather in this chamber deeply aware of decisive days that lie ahead. 
 You and I serve our country in a time of great consequence. During this session of Congress, we have the duty to reform domestic programs vital to our country. We have the opportunity to save millions of lives abroad from a terrible disease. We will work for a prosperity that is broadly shared and we will answer every danger and every enemy that threatens the American people. 
 In all these days of promise and days of reckoning, we can be confident. In a whirlwind of change and hope and peril, our faith is sure, our resolve is firm, and our union is strong.
 This country has many challenges. We will not deny, we will not ignore, we will not pass along our problems to other Congresses, to other presidents, and other generations. We will confront them with focus, and clarity and courage.
During the last two years, we have seen what can be accomplished when we work together. To lift the standards of our public schools, we achieved historic education reform which must now be carried out in every school, and in every classroom, so that every child in America can read, and learn and succeed in life. To protect our country, we reorganized our government and created the Department of Homeland Security which is mobilizing against the threats of a new era. To bring our economy out of recession, we delivered the largest tax relief in a generation. To insist on integrity in American business, we passed tough reforms, and we are holding corporate criminals to account.
Some might call this a good record. I call it a good start. Tonight I ask the House and the Senate to join me in the next bold steps to serve our fellow citizens.

Tax Cuts
 Our first goal is clear: We must have an economy that grows fast enough to employ every man and woman who seeks a job.
After recession, terrorist attacks, corporate scandals, and stock market declines, our economy is recovering yet it is not growing fast enough, or strongly enough. With unemployment rising, our nation needs more small businesses to open, more companies to invest and expand, more employers to put up the sign that says, "Help Wanted."
Jobs are created when the economy grows; the economy grows when Americans have more money to spend and invest; and the best and fairest way to make sure Americans have that money is not to tax it away in the first place.
I am proposing that all the income tax reductions set for 2004 and 2006 be made permanent and effective this year. And under my plan, as soon as I have signed the bill, this extra money will start showing up in workers' paychecks. Instead of gradually reducing the marriage penalty, we should do it now. Instead of slowly raising the child credit to a thousand dollars, we should send the checks to American families now.
This tax relief is for everyone who pays income taxes and it will help our economy immediately. Ninety-two million Americans will keep this year an average of almost $1,100 more of their own money. A family of four with an income of $40,000 would see their federal income taxes fall from $1,178 to $45 per year. And our plan will improve the bottom line for more than 23 million small businesses. You, the Congress, have already passed all these reductions, and promised them for future years. If this tax relief is good for Americans three or five or seven years from now, it is even better for Americans today.
We also strengthen the economy by treating investors equally in our tax laws. It's fair to tax a company's profits. It is not fair to again tax the shareholder on the same profits. To boost investor confidence and to help the nearly 10 million seniors who receive dividend income, I ask you to end the unfair double taxation of dividends.
Lower taxes and greater investment will help this economy expand. More jobs mean more taxpayers and higher revenues to our government. The best way to address the deficit and move toward a balanced budget is to encourage economic growth and to show some spending discipline in Washington, D.C.
We must work together to fund only our most important priorities. I will send you a budget that increases discretionary spending by 4 percent next year -- about as much as the average family's income is expected to grow. And that is a good benchmark for us. Federal spending should not rise any faster than the paychecks of American families.
A growing economy and a focus on essential priorities will be crucial to the future of Social Security. As we continue to work together to keep Social Security sound and reliable, we must offer younger workers a chance to invest in retirement accounts that they will control and they will own.

Health Care
Our second goal is high-quality, affordable health for all Americans. The American system of medicine is a model of skill and innovation with a pace of discovery that is adding good years to our lives. Yet for many people medical care costs too much and many have no health coverage at all. These problems will not be solved with a nationalized health care system that dictates coverage and rations care.
Instead we must work toward a system in which all Americans have a good insurance policy, choose their own doctors, and seniors and low-income Americans receive the help they need. Instead of bureaucrats and trial lawyers and H.M.O.'s, we must put doctors and nurses and patients back in charge of American medicine.
Health care reform must begin with Medicare. Medicare is the binding commitment of a caring society. We must renew that commitment by giving seniors access to preventive medicine and new drugs that are transforming health care in America.
Seniors happy with the current Medicare system should be able to keep their coverage just the way it is. And just like you, the members of Congress and your staffs and other federal employees, all seniors should have the choice of a health care plan that provides prescription drugs.
My budget will commit an additional $400 billion over the next decade to reform and strengthen Medicare. Leaders of both political parties have talked for years about strengthening Medicare. I urge the members of this new Congress to act this year.
To improve our health care system we must address one of the prime causes of higher cost: the constant threat that physicians and hospitals will be unfairly sued. Because of excessive litigation, everybody pays more for health care and many parts of America are losing fine doctors. No one has ever been healed by a frivolous lawsuit. I urge the Congress to pass medical liability reform.

Energy and the Environment
Our third goal is to promote energy independence for our country, while dramatically improving the environment.
I have sent you a comprehensive energy plan to promote energy efficiency and conservation, to develop cleaner technology, and to produce more energy at home. And I have sent you Clear Skies legislation that mandates a 70 percent cut in air pollution from power plants over the next 15 years. I have sent you a Healthy Forests Initiative, to help prevent the catastrophic fires that devastate communities, kill wildlife, and burn away millions of acres of treasured forests.
I urge you to pass these measures, for the good of both our environment and our economy. Even more, I ask you to take a crucial step, and protect our environment in ways that generations before us could not have imagined. In this century, the greatest environmental progress will come about not through endless lawsuits or command and control regulations but through technology and innovation. Tonight I am proposing $1.2 billion in research funding so that America can lead the world in developing clean, hydrogen-powered automobiles.
A simple chemical reaction between hydrogen and oxygen generates energy, which can be used to power a car producing only water, not exhaust fumes. With a new national commitment, our scientists and engineers will overcome obstacles to taking these cars from laboratory to showroom so that the first car driven by a child born today could be powered by hydrogen, and pollution-free. Join me in this important innovation to make our air significantly cleaner, and our country much less dependent on foreign sources of energy.

Human Services
 Our fourth goal is to apply the compassion of America to the deepest problems of America. For so many in our country the homeless, and the fatherless, the addicted the need is great. Yet there is power wonder-working power in the goodness, and idealism and faith of the American people.
Americans are doing the work of compassion every day visiting prisoners, providing shelter for battered women, bringing companionship to lonely seniors. These good works deserve our praise, they deserve our personal support and, when appropriate, they deserve the assistance of the federal government. I urge you to pass both my faith-based initiative and the Citizen Service Act to encourage acts of compassion that can transform America, one heart and one soul at a time.
Last year, I called on my fellow citizens to participate in the U.S.A. Freedom Corps, which is enlisting tens of thousands of new volunteers across America. Tonight I ask Congress and the American people to focus the spirit of service and the resources of government on the needs of some of our most vulnerable citizens, boys and girls trying to grow up without guidance and attention and children who have to go through a prison gate to be hugged by their mom or dad. I propose a $450 million initiative to bring mentors to more than a million disadvantaged junior high students and children of prisoners. Government will support the training and recruiting of mentors, yet it is the men and women of America who will fill the need. One mentor, one person, can change a life forever and I urge you to be that one person.
Another cause of hopelessness is addiction to drugs. Addiction crowds out friendship, ambition, moral conviction, and reduces all the richness of life to a single destructive desire. As a government, we are fighting illegal drugs by cutting off supplies and reducing demand through antidrug education programs.
Yet for those already addicted, the fight against drugs is a fight for their own lives. Too many Americans in search of treatment cannot get it. So tonight I propose a new $600-million program to help an additional 300,000 Americans receive treatment over the next three years.
Our Nation is blessed with recovery programs that do amazing work. One of them is found at the Healing Place Church in Baton Rouge, La. A man in the program said, "God does miracles in people's lives, and you never think it could be you." Tonight, let us bring to all Americans who struggle with drug addiction this message of hope: The miracle of recovery is possible, and it could be you.
By caring for children who need mentors, and for addicted men and women who need treatment, we are building a more welcoming society -- a culture that values every life. And in this work we must not overlook the weakest among us. I ask you to protect infants at the very hour of birth and end the practice of partial-birth abortion. And because no human life should be started or ended as the object of an experiment, I ask you to set a high standard for humanity and pass a law against all human cloning.
The qualities of courage and compassion that we strive for in America also determine our conduct abroad. The American flag stands for more than our power and our interests. Our founders dedicated this country to the cause of human dignity, the rights of every person and the possibilities of every life. This conviction leads us into the world to help the afflicted and defend the peace and confound the designs of evil men.
In Afghanistan we helped to liberate an oppressed people. And we will continue helping them secure their country, rebuild their society and educate all their children: boys and girls. 
In the Middle East we will continue to seek peace between a secure Israel and a democratic Palestine. 
Across the earth America is feeding the hungry; more than 60 percent of international food aid comes as a gift from the people of the United States.
As our nation moves troops and builds alliances to make our world safer, we must also remember our calling as a blessed country is to make this world better. 

Combatting AIDS
Today, on the continent of Africa, nearly 30 million people have the AIDS virus including three million children under the age 15. There are whole countries in Africa where more than one-third of the adult population carries the infection. More than four million require immediate drug treatment. Yet across that continent only 50,000 AIDS victims -- only 50,000 -- are receiving the medicine they need. Because the AIDS diagnosis is considered a death sentence, many do not seek treatment. Almost all who do are turned away.
A doctor in rural South Africa describes his frustration. He says, "We have no medicines. Many hospitals tell people, 'You've got AIDS. We can't help you. Go home and die.' "
In an age of miraculous medicines, no person should have to hear those words. AIDS can be prevented. Antiretroviral drugs can extend life for many years. And the cost of those drugs has dropped from $12,000 a year to under $300 a year, which places a tremendous possibility within our grasp.
Ladies and gentlemen, seldom has history offered a greater opportunity to do so much for so many. We have confronted and will continue to confront H.I.V./AIDS in our own country. And to meet a severe and urgent crisis abroad, tonight I propose the Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief -- a work of mercy beyond all current international efforts to help the people of Africa.
This comprehensive plan will prevent seven million new AIDS infections, treat at least two million people with life-extending drugs, and provide humane care for millions of people suffering from AIDS and for children orphaned by AIDS.
I ask the Congress to commit $15 billion over the next five years, including nearly $10 billion in new money, to turn the tide against AIDS in the most afflicted nations of Africa and the Caribbean.
 This nation can lead the world in sparing innocent people from a plague of nature. And this nation is leading the world in confronting and defeating the man-made evil of international terrorism.

Fighting Terrorism
 There are days when our fellow citizens do not hear news about the war on terror. There is never a day when I do not learn of another threat, or receive reports of operations in progress, or give an order in this global war against a scattered network of killers. The war goes on, and we are winning.
To date we have arrested, or otherwise dealt with, many key commanders of Al Qaeda. They include a man who directed logistics and funding for the September the 11th attacks. The chief of Al Qaeda operations in the Persian Gulf who planned the bombings of our embassies in East Africa and the U.S.S. Cole, an Al Qaeda operations chief from Southeast Asia, a former director of Al Qaeda's training camps in Afghanistan, a key Al Qaeda operative in Europe, a major Al Qaeda leader in Yemen. All told, more than 3,000 suspected terrorists have been arrested in many countries. Many others have met a different fate. Let's put it this way, they are no longer a problem to the United States and our friends and allies.
We are working closely with other nations to prevent further attacks. America and coalition countries have uncovered and stopped terrorist conspiracies targeting the Embassy in Yemen, the American Embassy in Singapore, a Saudi military base, ships in the Strait of Hormuz and the Strait of Gibraltar. We have broken Al Qaeda cells in Hamburg, Milan, Madrid, London, Paris as well as Buffalo, N.Y.
We have the terrorists on the run, we're keeping them on the run. One by one, the terrorists are learning the meaning of American justice.

Domestic Security
As we fight this war, we will remember where it began here, in our own country. This government is taking unprecedented measures to protect our people and defend our homeland. We have intensified security at the borders and ports of entry, posted more than 50,000 newly trained federal screeners in airports, begun inoculating troops and first responders against smallpox and are deploying the nation's first early warning network of sensors to detect biological attack. And this year, for the first time, we are beginning to field a defense to protect this nation against ballistic missiles.
I thank the Congress for supporting these measures. I ask you tonight to add to our future security with a major research and production effort to guard our people against bioterrorism, called Project Bioshield. The budget I send you will propose almost $6 billion to quickly make available effective vaccines and treatments against agents like anthrax, botulinum toxin, ebola, and plague. We must assume that our enemies would use these diseases as weapons, and we must act before the dangers are upon us.
Since September the 11th, our intelligence and law enforcement agencies have worked more closely than ever to track and disrupt the terrorists. The F.B.I. is improving its ability to analyze intelligence, and is transforming itself to meet new threats. Tonight, I am instructing the leaders of the F.B.I., the C.I.A., the Homeland Security, and the Department of Defense to develop a Terrorist Threat Integration Center, to merge and analyze all threat information in a single location. Our government must have the very best information possible, and we will use it to make sure the right people are in the right places to protect all our citizens.
Our war against terror is a contest of will, in which perseverance is power. In the ruins of two towers, at the western wall of the Pentagon, on a field in Pennsylvania, this nation made a pledge, and we renew that pledge tonight: Whatever the duration of this struggle, and whatever the difficulties, we will not permit the triumph of violence in the affairs of men; free people will set the course of history.
Today, the gravest danger in the war on terror, the gravest danger facing America and the world, is outlaw regimes that seek and possess nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. These regimes could use such weapons for blackmail, terror and mass murder. They could also give or sell those weapons to terrorist allies, who would use them without the least hesitation.
This threat is new; America's duty is familiar. Throughout the 20th century, small groups of men seized control of great nations, built armies and arsenals, and set out to dominate the weak and intimidate the world. In each case, their ambitions of cruelty and murder had no limit. In each case, the ambitions of Hitlerism, militarism and communism were defeated by the will of free peoples, by the strength of great alliances and by the might of the United States of America. 
Now, in this century, the ideology of power and domination has appeared again, and seeks to gain the ultimate weapons of terror. Once again this nation and all our friends are all that stand between a world at peace and a world of chaos and constant alarm. Once again we are called to defend the safety of our people and the hopes of all mankind. And we accept this responsibility.

Disarming Iraq
 America's making a broad and determined effort to confront these dangers. We've called on the United Nations to fulfill its charter and stand by its demand that Iraq disarm. We are strongly supporting the International Atomic Energy Agency in its mission to track and control nuclear materials around the world. We are working with other governments to secure nuclear materials in the former Soviet Union and to strengthen global treaties banning the production and shipment of missile technologies and weapons of mass destruction.
In all of these efforts, however, America's purpose is more than to follow a process; it is to achieve a result: the end of terrible threats to the civilized world. All free nations have a stake in preventing sudden and catastrophic attacks. And we're asking them to join us. And many are doing so. 
Yet the course of this nation does not depend on the decisions of others. Whatever action is required, whenever action is necessary, I will defend the freedom and security of the American people.
Different threats require different strategies. In Iran we continue to see a government that represses its people, pursues weapons of mass destruction and supports terror. We also see Iranian citizens risking intimidation and death as they speak out for liberty and human rights and democracy. Iranians, like all people, have a right to choose their own government and determine their own destiny and the United States supports their aspirations to live in freedom.
 On the Korean Peninsula, an oppressive regime rules a people living in fear and starvation. Throughout the 1990's, the United States relied on a negotiated framework to keep North Korea from gaining nuclear weapons. We now know that that regime was deceiving the world, and developing those weapons all along. And today the North Korean regime is using its nuclear program to incite fear and seek concessions. America and the world will not be blackmailed. America is working with the countries of the region South Korea, Japan, China and Russia to find a peaceful solution, and to show the North Korean government that nuclear weapons will bring only isolation, economic stagnation and continued hardship. The North Korean regime will find respect in the world, and revival for its people, only when it turns away from its nuclear ambitions.
Our nation and the world must learn the lessons of the Korean Peninsula, and not allow an even greater threat to rise up in Iraq. A brutal dictator, with a history of reckless aggression, with ties to terrorism, with great potential wealth will not be permitted to dominate a vital region and threaten the United States.
Twelve years ago, Saddam Hussein faced the prospect of being the last casualty in a war he had started and lost. To spare himself, he agreed to disarm of all weapons of mass destruction. For the next 12 years, he systematically violated that agreement. He pursued chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons even while inspectors were in his country. Nothing to date has restrained him from his pursuit of these weapons not economic sanctions, not isolation from the civilized world, not even cruise missile strikes on his military facilities. Almost three months ago, the United Nations Security Council gave Saddam Hussein his final chance to disarm. He has shown instead utter contempt for the United Nations, and for the opinion of the world.
The 108 U.N. inspectors were not sent to conduct a scavenger hunt for hidden materials across a country the size of California. The job of the inspectors is to verify that Iraq's regime is disarming. It is up to Iraq to show exactly where it is hiding its banned weapons, lay those weapons out for the world to see and destroy them as directed. Nothing like this has happened.
The United Nations concluded in 1999 that Saddam Hussein had biological weapons sufficient to produce over 25,000 liters of anthrax, enough doses to kill several million people. He hasn't accounted for that material. He has given no evidence that he has destroyed it.
The United Nations concluded that Saddam Hussein had materials sufficient to produce more than 38,000 liters of botulinum toxin, enough to subject millions of people to death by respiratory failure. He hasn't accounted for that material. He has given no evidence that he has destroyed it.
Our intelligence officials estimate that Saddam Hussein had the materials to produce as much as 500 tons of sarin, mustard and VX nerve agent. In such quantities, these chemical agents could also kill untold thousands. He has not accounted for these materials. He has given no evidence that he has destroyed them.
U.S. intelligence indicates that Saddam Hussein had upwards of 30,000 munitions capable of delivering chemical agents. Inspectors recently turned up 16 of them, despite Iraq's recent declaration denying their existence. Saddam Hussein has not accounted for the remaining 29,984 of these prohibited munitions. He has given no evidence that he has destroyed them.
From three Iraqi defectors we know that Iraq, in the late 1990's, had several mobile biological weapons labs. These are designed to produce germ warfare agents, and can be moved from place to place to evade inspectors. Saddam Hussein has not disclosed these facilities. He has given no evidence that he has destroyed them.
The International Atomic Energy Agency confirmed in the 1990's that Saddam Hussein had an advanced nuclear weapons development program, had a design for a nuclear weapon, and was working on five different methods of enriching uranium for a bomb. The British government has learned that Saddam Hussein recently sought significant quantities of uranium from Africa. Our intelligence sources tell us that he has attempted to purchase high-strength aluminum tubes suitable for nuclear weapons production. Saddam Hussein has not credibly explained these activities. He clearly has much to hide.
 The dictator of Iraq is not disarming. To the contrary, he is deceiving. From intelligence sources, we know, for instance, that thousands of Iraqi security personnel are at work hiding documents and materials from the U.N. inspectors, sanitizing inspection sites and monitoring the inspectors themselves. Iraqi officials accompany the inspectors in order to intimidate witnesses. Iraq is blocking U-2 surveillance flights requested by the United Nations. Iraqi intelligence officers are posing as the scientists inspectors are supposed to interview. Real scientists have been coached by Iraqi officials on what to say. Intelligence sources indicate that Saddam Hussein has ordered that scientists who cooperate with U.N. inspectors in disarming Iraq will be killed, along with their families.
 Year after year, Saddam Hussein has gone to elaborate lengths, spent enormous sums, taken great risks, to build and keep weapons of mass destruction. But why? The only possible explanation, the only possible use he could have for those weapons, is to dominate, intimidate or attack. With nuclear arms or a full arsenal of chemical and biological weapons, Saddam Hussein could resume his ambitions of conquest in the Middle East, and create deadly havoc in that region. And this Congress and the American people must recognize another threat. Evidence from intelligence sources, secret communications, and statements by people now in custody, reveal that Saddam Hussein aids and protects terrorists, including members of Al Qaeda. Secretly, and without fingerprints, he could provide one of his hidden weapons to terrorists, or help them develop their own.
 Before Sept. 11, many in the world believed that Saddam Hussein could be contained. But chemical agents, lethal viruses and shadowy terrorist networks are not easily contained. Imagine those 19 hijackers with other weapons, and other plans -- this time armed by Saddam Hussein. It would take one vial, one canister, one crate slipped into this country to bring a day of horror like none we have ever known. We will do everything in our power to make sure that that day never comes.
 Some have said we must not act until the threat is imminent. Since when have terrorists and tyrants announced their intentions, politely putting us on notice before they strike? If this threat is permitted to fully and suddenly emerge, all actions, all words and all recriminations would come too late.
Trusting in the sanity and restraint of Saddam Hussein is not a strategy and it is not an option. The dictator who is assembling the world's most dangerous weapons has already used them on whole villages leaving thousands of his own citizens dead, blind or disfigured. Iraqi refugees tell us how forced confessions are obtained: by torturing children while their parents are made to watch. International human rights groups have cataloged other methods used in the torture chambers of Iraq: electric shock, burning with hot irons, dripping acid on the skin, mutilation with electric drills, cutting out tongues and rape.
If this is not evil then evil has no meaning. 
And tonight I have a message for the brave and oppressed people of Iraq: Your enemy is not surrounding your country, your enemy is ruling your country. And the day he and his regime are removed from power will be the day of your liberation.
The world has waited 12 years for Iraq to disarm. America will not accept a serious and mounting threat to our country and our friends and our allies. The United States will ask the U.N. Security Council to convene on February the Fifth to consider the facts of Iraq's ongoing defiance of the world. Secretary of State Powell will present information and intelligence about Iraqi's legal -- Iraq's illegal weapons programs, its attempts to hide those weapons from inspectors and its links to terrorist groups.
We will consult, but let there be no misunderstanding: If Saddam Hussein does not fully disarm, for the safety of our people and for the peace of the world, we will lead a coalition to disarm him.

The Military
 Tonight I have a message for the men and women who will keep the peace, members of the American armed forces: Many of you are assembling in or near the Middle East, and some crucial hours may lay ahead. In those hours, the success of our cause will depend on you. Your training has prepared you. Your honor will guide you. You believe in America, and America believes in you.
Sending Americans into battle is the most profound decision a president can make. The technologies of war have changed. The risks and suffering of war have not. For the brave Americans who bear the risk, no victory is free from sorrow. This nation fights reluctantly, because we know the cost, and we dread the days of mourning that always come.
We seek peace. We strive for peace. And sometimes peace must be defended. A future lived at the mercy of terrible threats is no peace at all. If war is forced upon us, we will fight in a just cause and by just means sparing, in every way we can, the innocent. And if war is forced upon us, we will fight with the full force and might of the United States military and we will prevail. And as we and our coalition partners are doing in Afghanistan, we will bring to the Iraqi people food, and medicines, and supplies and freedom.
Many challenges, abroad and at home, have arrived in a single season. In two years, America has gone from a sense of invulnerability to an awareness of peril, from bitter division in small matters to calm unity in great causes. And we go forward with confidence, because this call of history has come to the right country.
Americans are a resolute people who have risen to every test of our time. Adversity has revealed the character of our country to the world, and to ourselves.
 America is a strong nation, and honorable in the use of our strength. We exercise power without conquest, and we sacrifice for the liberty of strangers.
 Americans are a free people, who know that freedom is the right of every person and the future of every nation. The liberty we prize is not America's gift to the world; it is God's gift to humanity.
 We Americans have faith in ourselves but not in ourselves alone. We do not know -- we do not claim to know all the ways of Providence, yet we can trust in them, placing our confidence in the loving God behind all of life and all of history.
 May he guide us now, and may God continue to bless the United States of America.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush with Vice President Dick Cheney, left, and Speaker J. Dennis Hastert during the State of the Union speech. (Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (86%); RECESSION (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); EDUCATION REFORM (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); TERRORISM (64%); SCANDALS (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (86%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



920 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION: OPPOSITION RESPONSE; 
Democrats Say the Nation Heads 'in Wrong Direction'

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE and SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
The governor chosen to present the Democratic response to President Bush tonight faulted the president's handling of the economy, other domestic policy and national security, saying that "in too many ways, our country is headed in the wrong direction." 
 The governor, Gary Locke of Washington, whose own state is suffering from high unemployment and a $2.5 billion budget deficit, said that states and cities were in financial distress and that Mr. Bush's economic proposals offered little relief. 
 "We're being forced to cut vital services, from police to fire to health care," and many states "are being forced to raise taxes," Mr. Locke said in a speech after the State of the Union address. "We need a White House that understands the challenges our communities and people are facing across America." 
He also urged the president to build an international coalition before taking any military action against Iraq. 
Leading Congressional Democrats offered an even tougher critique of the president's speech. Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, for instance, said he would introduce a resolution seeking a second set of Congressional votes and "convincing evidence" of an imminent threat from Iraq before American troops were committed. 
Democratic leaders' reaction to Mr. Bush's address was a continuation of hammering they have done in recent weeks at his domestic and foreign policy agendas. Many Democrats say a reluctance to confront the White House more forcefully handicapped them in the November elections, which left them a minority in both houses of Congress.
This evening the Senate Democratic leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, said: "Tonight the president used all the right rhetoric, but he still has all the wrong policies. Regrettably, he passed up this opportunity to close the widening credibility gap that is putting him further and further out of touch with the American people."
Mr. Daschle and other Democrats described the state of the union as "anxious," calling the public uneasy over both the economy and the prospect of conflict overseas.
Even as they sought to take the political offensive, however, Congressional Democrats conceded that they would have trouble combating the president, inasmuch as the Republican majorities in both houses leave them with little legislative leverage.
In fact, the selection of Mr. Locke was recognition of the party's fortunes in Congress, as well as a desire to present a fresh image. While the opposition's response to the State of the Union address is most often delivered by a lawmaker, the Democrats instead offered the nationally televised spot this time to their governors' association, to showcase a figure from outside Washington and shine a light on the statehouses, one of the few bright spots for the party in November.
Mr. Locke, of Chinese ancestry, stressed his roots as he began his speech.
"My grandfather came to this country from China nearly a century ago and worked as a servant," he said. "Now I serve as governor just one mile from where my grandfather worked. It took our family a hundred years to travel that mile."
On foreign affairs, the governor tried to strike a balance between support for a popular president at a time of international tension and encouraging that president to avoid acting unilaterally against Iraq.
"We are far stronger when we stand with other nations than when we stand alone," said Mr. Locke, who, like other Democrats, also noted that while Mr. Bush was focused on Saddam Hussein, Osama bin Laden, the mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks, remained at large.
As for the economy, Mr. Locke criticized the president's $670 billion tax cut proposal, whose centerpiece is elimination of taxes that shareholders pay on dividends. He said Democratic alternatives would offer more immediate and direct relief.
Some Congressional Democrats who have their own eyes on the presidency also weighed in quickly to criticize Mr. Bush's address. 
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri said the president's speech "failed to ease the nation's anxiety over his economic plan and fell short of addressing the nation's increasing concern about the future." Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts said, "Americans are tired of politicians who make promises in speeches and break them in practice." Senator John Edwards of North Carolina attacked the tax cut proposal and said, "The president just doesn't get it. 
Earlier in the day, as the House adopted a stopgap measure to finance government operations through Friday of next week, Democrats pressed to insert in the legislation nearly $3.6 billion for emergency "first responders," including $90 million to study the health of those exposed to toxic materials in the World Trade Center attack. But the Democrats' effort failed, and they again attacked the president on the ground that while he was calling for a large tax cut, he was shortchanging domestic programs.
Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader, quoted the White House as saying the provision was unaffordable. "How do you explain this to the American people?" she demanded.
Several Democrats said Mr. Bush needed to provide more evidence of a threat posed by Iraq if he hoped to win broader support for military action. "If he has got anything, I wish he would share it with us," said Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York.
Senator Kennedy said he believed that Al Qaeda and North Korea's nuclear capability required more immediate attention than Iraq. "President Bush cannot expect the international community to salute America and march with us into war," he said, "when the administration has made no convincing case for war."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Gary Locke of Washington and his wife, Mona, before he delivered the Democratic response to the State of the Union address last night. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GARY LOCKE (89%); TED KENNEDY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TOM DASCHLE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



921 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION: BUSINESS; 
Corporate Leaders Take Heart but Say Recovery Requires Clear Resolution in the Middle East

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
Beset by an ailing economy made more fragile by the prospect of pending war, leaders from corporate America and Wall Street said last night that they took heart in the president's sober assessment of the financial times, but several said his speech lacked a silver bullet that would spur investment and noted that recovery would not happen without a clear resolution in the Middle East.
 With a speech anchored by a proposed sweeping tax cut, President Bush sought to invigorate hopes in an economic climate in which corporate investment remains stagnant, public markets are languishing and many executives, while asserting that their industries have reached bottom, remain uncertain about when their sectors will head upward. 
 Generally, the president espoused a conservative agenda, emphasizing lower taxes and lower government spending, and on several occasions citing "frivolous lawsuits" as an impediment to economic growth. In a philosophy that reminded some industry leaders of former President Ronald Reagan's economic programs, Mr. Bush asserted that lower taxes would spur economic growth, lead to more jobs and, in turn, fill tax coffers. 
But several industry leaders questioned whether the stimulus package would be sufficient in the short term to spur consumer spending and confidence.
"Are the proposals enough to spark spending? I hope so," said Hank Barry, a partner with Hummer Winblad, a Silicon Valley venture- capital firm that invests in start-up technology companies. "The proof point will be whether that spending comes in the next year."
Wall Street strategists said that despite the speech's rousing tone, it lacked the specifics that investors hoped Mr. Bush would provide about a timeline for war with Iraq. For the last month, uncertainty about when a war might begin, and whether the United States would have the support of its allies, has weighed on stocks.
"I don't know that this speech is the impetus for the retail investor to dive back in tomorrow," said Liz Ann Sonders, the chief investment strategist for the Charles Schwab Corporation, who generally praised the speech.
Jeffrey Kleintop, the chief investment strategist for PNC Advisors, said he thought stocks might fall today as investors realized that the United States and arms inspectors would not provide specific evidence of Iraq's misdeeds for at least another week. At the same time, Mr. Kleintop said that Mr. Bush appeared to have backed off his plan to eliminate taxes on dividends.
"It didn't sound to me as if he was steadfastly adhering to the complete elimination" of taxes on dividends, Mr. Kleintop said.
Democrats and many economists have sharply criticized the proposal to eliminate taxes on dividends, saying its benefits would flow mainly to the richest Americans. "We're of the view, and I think the mainstream view, is that you need more near-term stimulus, aid to the states and stuff like that," said Gerald Cohen, senior economist at Merrill Lynch.
Conversely, the speech was particularly well-received by members of the technology community, who said the sector could be helped by several of Mr. Bush's proposals, notably one that seeks $1.2 billion for research into fuel cells for cars and his emphasis on a bioshield to prevent or minimize the threat of a bioterrorist attack.
"I'm encouraged that finally there's a belief we should put an emphasis on technology," said Jonathan Feiber, a managing partner of Mohr, Davidow Ventures, a venture- capital firm that invests in Silicon Valley technology companies. "If there's follow-up -- either the cars or the bioshield -- that will impact the technology sector in the valley" because it will present a potential market for technology companies.
Top executives have been among Mr. Bush's most important supporters since he began running for president four years ago, and some continued to praise him last night.
"I thought it was fantastic," said Calvin A. Campbell Jr., who voted for Mr. Bush and is the chairman of Goodman Equipment Corporation, a small manufacturer of locomotives in Bedford Park, Ill. "He appealed to righteousness, he appealed to America, but more important, he appealed to the world."
Health care executives praised the president for emphasizing the need to reform the medical system, particularly Medicare and a prescription drug benefit for senior citizens. By emphasizing that people in the current Medicare system will not be forced into a managed-care plan, Mr. Bush may be able to diffuse some opposition to his efforts to reform the system and provide coverage for prescription drugs, said Pete Nicholas, the chairman of Boston Scientific Corporation.
The president's call to spend $15 billion in Africa to help combat the AIDS epidemic also impressed some executives. "It's a nice start," said Nancy W. Dickey, a doctor and former president of the American Medical Association. She she appreciated his comments about the need to reform Medicare as well as medical liability reform, she said, but noted that he did not discuss Medicare's flawed formulas and the problem of lower reimbursements for hospitals and doctors. "The failure to say something about it is of great concern," she said.
Cinda A. Hallman, the chief executive of Spherion, a staffing company that employs 400,000 people, said she was pleased that Mr. Bush put the economy's troubles at the start of his speech, suggesting he understood the importance of the problem.
"We're all concerned about the economy," she said. "There's a lot of work to be done." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); TAX LAW (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (63%); LITIGATION (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (84%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (72%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (52%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (84%); PNC (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



922 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
Bush's Twin Challenges

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
With his sweeping, if unproven, charge that Saddam Hussein "aids and protects terrorists, including members of Al Qaeda," President Bush tonight delivered his strongest effort yet to convince doubting allies and anxious Americans that war with Iraq may be unavoidable, and the best way to protect the home front from "a day of horror like none we have ever known."
 At the same time, by outlining an ambitious effort to reshape health care and build "an economy that grows fast enough to employ every man and woman who seeks a job," Mr. Bush sought to protect himself from the charges of political indifference that destroyed his father's presidency after the success of the Persian Gulf war in 1991. He spoke feelingly of the need for more drug treatment programs, mentors for children of prison inmates and new efforts to combat AIDS in Africa. 
 But the chief thrust of a speech aimed by turns at the American heartland and the heart of Europe was a methodical argument to build support for attacking Iraq to rid it of weapons of mass destruction, and to pressure traditional American allies to join the campaign. There were promises of detailed evidence to come from Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, coupled with a gruesome catalog of Iraqi torture methods and a warning that if Mr. Hussein "is not evil, then evil has no meaning."
Presidents have used their annual State of the Union messages to articulate broad doctrine, to shape debate in time of war and to confront and defuse political problems. Tonight, in what he called "a time of great consequence," President Bush tried to do all three.
A year ago, in his first State of the Union speech, Mr. Bush addressed a shaken nation that had recently been attacked and a public galvanized behind its still relatively new president. Support for his swift military campaign in Afghanistan to destroy the Taliban and hunt down Osama bin Laden was high.
With the goal of eliminating the danger of terrorism only half-accomplished, the themes of war and peril were again at the core of Mr. Bush's speech. But he faced an entirely different diplomatic and domestic reality, as he sought to build his case for attacking Iraq under his newly expanded doctrine of pre-emption, and argued that that goal was inseparable from his effort to destroy Al Qaeda.
"Today, the gravest danger in the war on terror, the gravest danger facing America and the world, is outlaw regimes that seek and possess nuclear, chemical and biological weapons," Mr. Bush said, clearly alluding to Iraq. He confronted critics head-on by insisting that current tensions with North Korea mean the world must "not allow an even greater threat to rise up in Iraq," and insisted, with his eyes narrowed into slits, that Mr. Hussein "will not be permitted to dominate a vital region and threaten the United States."
Like Franklin D. Roosevelt, who used his 1941 State of the Union address to proclaim the "Four Freedoms" he deemed essential to a nation on the verge of World War II, Mr. Bush assured his listeners that America's founding creed "leads us into the world to help the afflicted and defend the peace and confound the designs of evil men." 
Like Lyndon B. Johnson, who insisted in his 1966 speech that the nation was "mighty enough to pursue our goals in the rest of the world while still building a Great Society here at home," Mr. Bush said, "We will answer every danger and every enemy that threatens the American people."
Mr. Bush also sought to reassure allies around the world who were alarmed by his linking in last year's speech of Iraq, Iran and North Korea in an "axis of evil" and doubtful of his designs on Iraq. He promised tonight that the United States, if forced to go to war, would "exercise power without conquest" and added, "We sacrifice for the liberty of strangers." He reminded Europeans, especially, that throughout the 20th century, "the ambitions of Hitlerism, militarism and communism were defeated by the will of free peoples, by the strength of great alliances and by the might of the United States of America."
"If it's possible to walk on several tightropes at once, he is," said Fred I. Greenstein, a scholar of the presidency at Princeton University.
In recent weeks, as some longtime allies warned against a rush to war, Mr. Bush had left the bully pulpit to others. But this evening, he re-emerged in one of the most majestic settings of the presidency to make his case, well aware that by next year's State of the Union address, the presidential campaign will be going full steam.
"You have layer upon layer of uncertainty and anxiety," said Richard Norton Smith, a Republican political historian who heads the Robert J. Dole Institute of Politics at the University of Kansas. "For a president who many people thought, wrongly, came into office thinking small, and who is not by nature a self-dramatizing figure, he has been afforded by events, time and time again, some of the most dramatic opportunities any president has had in years."
Mr. Bush faced a House chamber still almost as evenly divided as the electorate that did not quite give him a majority of its popular vote two years ago, and Democrats were so eager to rebut him and accuse him of bad faith that they did not even wait for him to deliver the speech. They attacked his proposal for overhauling Medicare as bound to force the elderly to abandon their familiar doctors for faceless health maintenance organizations to obtain the prescription-drug insurance coverage they need.
Neither war, much less the presidential election, will come upon Mr. Bush tomorrow. Although his job approval ratings have drifted down toward 60 percent from 90 percent just after the Sept. 11 attacks, presidents have won re-election overwhelmingly with worse numbers, as Mr. Bush's pollster, Matthew Dowd, reminded reporters today.
With skirmishes continuing in Afghanistan, extremists regrouping in Pakistan and a jobless economic recovery at home, Mr. Bush could not argue that the country was better off than it was when he took office two years ago. But he could -- and did -- promise it would be better off two years from now. He vowed, "We will not deny, we will not ignore, we will not pass along our problems to other Congresses, other presidents, and other generations."
All of that is easier said than done. 
In 1991, as Operation Desert Storm was under way, another president declared: "Most Americans know instinctively why we are in the gulf. They know we had to stop Saddam now, not later. They know this brutal dictator will do anything, will use any weapon, will commit any outrage, no matter how many innocents must suffer."
That was Mr. Bush's father, in his State of the Union address 12 years ago Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush receiving accolades on the House floor last night after his address. The speech was interrupted 77 times by applause. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); War has figured in many State of the Union speeches. From left, Franklin D. Roosevelt called for aircraft in 1942. Harry S. Truman, in 1951, sought to repel the Communist invasion of South Korea. Lyndon B. Johnson, discussed the Vietnam War in 1968. In 1991, George Bush focused on Iraq. (Associated Press)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); AIDS & HIV (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (78%); TALIBAN (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); CHILDREN (77%); DESERT STORM (77%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (69%); TORTURE (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); GULF STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



923 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION: THE OVERVIEW; 
CALLING IRAQ A SERIOUS THREAT, BUSH VOWS THAT HE'LL DISARM IT, AND ALSO REBUILD U.S. ECONOMY

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
In an assertive speech that covered the main themes of his administration, President Bush tonight combined an unflinching threat of military action against Saddam Hussein with sweeping proposals on the key domestic issues of health care and tax relief.
 Mr. Bush, delivering his second State of the Union message before Congress, sought to assure Americans that he could deal with their economic troubles and foreign crises simultaneously and with compassion and resolve. 
 He spoke forcefully, purposefully and in somber tones of an America unafraid to take unilateral action, if necessary, against an Iraqi leader he portrayed as the personification of evil.
"Trusting in the sanity and restraint of Saddam Hussein is not a strategy, and it is not an option," Mr. Bush said. Transcript, Page A12. 
He defended his doctrine of pre-emption as the necessary response to terrorism and sought to increase the pressure on his hesitant allies by announcing that he was sending Secretary of State Colin L. Powell to the United Nations on Feb. 5. 
Moving to control the next part of the decision-making calendar, Mr. Bush said Mr. Powell would "present information and intelligence" to buttress White House contentions that Mr. Hussein had deceived United Nations inspectors and that he had secret links to Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups.
But the president tempered that message with a new agenda of international humanitarianism, built on a major new intitiative against AIDS in Africa.
He promised his American audience tax relief for ordinary families and for investors in the stock market.
Addressing his determination to deal once and for all with Mr. Hussein, the president made it clear that while he would seek the world's support in confronting Iraq -- and in liberating it -- he would not wait. "We will consult, but let there be no misunderstanding: If Saddam Hussein does not fully disarm, for the safety of our people, and for the peace of the world, we will lead a coalition to disarm him," Mr. Bush said. 
In an effort to answer his critics around the world, Mr. Bush described America as a benign superpower, one that planned to "bring to the Iraqi people food, and medicines and supplies." He paused for emphasis, and added: "And freedom."
"We exercise power without conquest," he said, "and sacrifice for the liberty of strangers."
He described Mr. Hussein as showing "utter contempt" for the United Nations, and he sent a message to the armed forces he has dispatched to the Persian Gulf, telling them that "crucial hours" lie ahead.
"In those hours, the success of our cause will depend on you," Mr. Bush said, sounding as if he assumed military conflict was coming. "Your training has prepared you. Your honor will guide you. You believe in America and America believes in you."
Mr. Bush used the speech to lay out his rationale for taking pre-emptive action against Iraq, saying that Mr. Hussein had used chemical weapons on his own people and had routinely resorted to torture against his opponents. 
"If this is not evil, then evil has no meaning," he said.
In calm and measured tones that sometimes dropped almost to a whisper, Mr. Bush pivoted from the weak economy, tax cuts, health care and volunteerism to AIDS, terrorism and the likelihood of war. He linked the troubles at home to the threats from abroad by suggesting that they collectively posed a challenge that could not be deferred. 
"We will not deny, we will not ignore, we will not pass along our problems to other Congresses, other presidents and other generations," the president said. "We will confront them with focus, and clarity, and courage."
Without providing any details, the president cited evidence "from intelligence sources, secret communications and statements by people now in custody" in asserting that Mr. Hussein is currently tied to Al Qaeda.
And he described what Sept. 11, 2001, might have been like if the hijackers that day had had access to chemical and biological weapons of the sort that the United States says Mr. Hussein has stockpiled.
"It would take just one vial, one canister, one crate slipped into this country to bring a day of horror like none we have ever known," Mr. Bush said. "We will do everything in our power to make sure that day never comes."
The White House had signaled for days that this would not be Mr. Bush's final word on Iraq, and the president stopped short of declaring war. But he left little doubt that he intended to disarm Mr. Hussein by force, with whatever allies he could assemble, if the Iraqi leader did not give up his weapons voluntarily.
Mr. Bush left open the possibility that Mr. Hussein could avoid war by immediately complying with the demands by the United Nations that he disarm, but seemed to hold out little hope that the Iraqi leader would do so.
"The dictator of Iraq is not disarming," Mr. Bush said. "To the contrary, he is deceiving."
Mr. Bush also stressed efforts he was taking to protect the nation from another terrorist attack, announcing that the Central Intelligence Agency and the F.B.I. would pool foreign and domestic intelligence through a new joint operation intended to improve their cooperation and better identify threats.
In devoting the first third of his address to the economy and domestic issues, he displayed a determination not to be seen as overly absorbed by those crises or inattentive to domestic problems. It was that image that hobbled his father's unsuccessful re-election campaign 11 years ago.
His address had a number of surprises, among them a call for a $15 billion program -- including $10 billion in new money -- to fight AIDS in Africa and the Caribbean.
The initiative fit into two major themes of Mr. Bush's administration: its efforts to be seen as "compassionate" in its conservatism and its efforts to show the rest of the world that its foreign policy goal is not hegemony but to foster peace, stability and prosperity.
Mr. Bush said his "first goal" was to revive the economy, which after showing signs of recovery last year appears to be stalling again. He said the best way to do this was passage of his $670 billion tax cut plan, including its provision to end taxation of most stock dividends.
He also promised to dedicate $400 billion over the next decade to overhauling the Medicare system and adding to it prescription drug coverage for some retirees.
And after two years of attacks by environmentalists for his deregulatory policies, Mr. Bush called for $1.2 billion in research into cleaner-burning hydrogen-powered automobiles. 
He proposed a $450 million plan to provide mentors for children whose parents are in prison and a $600 million program to help an additional 300,000 people get treatment for substance abuse.
He said his budget plan for next year, which he will submit to Congress on Monday, would ask for $6 billion for a new program to produce more and better vaccines and treatments against bioterrorism from agents like anthrax, botulinum toxin, Ebola and plague.
Addressing an issue that ranks high among the concerns of social conservatives, Mr. Bush pledged to push for a ban on the procedure that its opponents call partial-birth abortion.
But Mr. Bush's task tonight was to mobilize the American public and the nation's allies to the cause of disarming Iraq and trusting America's motives. The president asserted that there was little distinction between fighting terrorism and confronting "outlaw regimes" that stockpile or seek to develop chemical, biological and nuclear weapons.
"These regimes could use such weapons for blackmail, terror and mass murder," he said. "They could also give or sell those weapons to their terrorist allies, who would use them without the least hesitation."
Mr. Bush's mission tonight was to add urgency to the confrontation with Iraq, and he did so by alleging -- in what White House officials noted was the present tense -- that "Saddam Hussein aids and protects terrorists, including members of Al Qaeda." But when asked today for the evidence to back up his assertion, a senior administration official said simply "we'll deal with Al Qaeda and Iraq in the next few days."
The heart of Mr. Bush's argument, however, is that America and the world cannot afford to wait until it is clear that Iraq will attack America, or its allies.
"Some have said we must not act until the threat is imminent," he said, a clear reference to European nations that argue that Mr. Hussein is contained. "Since when have terrorists and tyrants announced their intentions, politely putting us on notice before they strike?"
Mr. Bush offered little new evidence about Iraq's actions today, but he described Mr. Hussein's methods of torture and intimidation in stark terms, and at one point he clearly compared the Iraqi leader to Hitler.
He talked of forced confessions, extracted "by torturing children while their parents are made to watch." He detailed electric shocks, dripping acid, and mutilation with electric drills -- not the usual discourse for State of the Union addresses.
The core of his argument, however, rested on the questions that Hans Blix, the co-leader of the United Nations inspection team, said on Monday were still unanswered. He spoke of 25,000 liters of anthrax -- "enough doses to kill several million people" -- that remains unaccounted for. He asked for evidence that 38,000 liters of botulinum toxin, which causes respiratory failure, has been destroyed.
In dwelling for so long on Mr. Hussein's abuses, he quite deliberately isolated Iraq from the other two nations that make up what, in last year's address 364 nights ago, he memorably called an "Axis of Evil."
There was no such turn of phrase tonight. Instead, he argued that "different threats require different strategies." Iran, he said, continued to repress freedom and seek weapons of mass destruction, but he argued that Iranians themselves were the greatest hope for change. They are, he said, "risking intimidation and dealth as they speak out for liberty, human rights and democracy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush made it clear that he would seek the support of the world in confronting Iraq, but would not wait. (Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Applause greeted President Bush's State of the Union address last night. He defended his doctrine of pre-emptive response to terrorism. (Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); TERRORISM (73%); AL-QAEDA (68%); AIDS & HIV (67%); DISARMAMENT (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (51%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); AFRICA (79%); GULF STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



924 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION: HEALTH; 
Bush Proposal On AIDS Funds Shows Concern About Security

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
In proposing that Congress commit $15 billion to an emergency relief fund for AIDS in Africa, President Bush declared publicly tonight that AIDS is a humanitarian crisis. But he also recognized, without explicitly saying so, that by creating political and economic instability abroad, AIDS is also a national security threat that could breed the next generation of terrorists.
 "As our nation moves troops and builds alliances to make our world safer, we must also remember our calling, as a blessed country, to make this world better," Mr. Bush said, adding, "There are whole countries in Africa where more than one-third of the adult population carries the infection." 
 The money Mr. Bush proposed, $15 billion over five years, including nearly $10 billion in new money. Currently, the administration spends about $1.5 billion a year both at home and abroad and contributes $500 million to a new global fund to fight AIDS.
Advocates for people with AIDS have consistently called that a paltry sum. Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general, has repeatedly said the global fund needs $10 billion in annual spending, and many advocates say the share of the United States should be one-quarter of that, or $2.5 billion.
Advocates for people with AIDS generally praised Mr. Bush's announcement tonight. "We think it's an extraordinary development; we're thrilled," said Paul Zeitz, executive director of the Global AIDS Alliance, a nonprofit group in Washington. But, he added: "Is it really going to be new money? Is he going to cut other priorities to fund this?"
In the Capitol and within Mr. Bush's administration, support has been building in recent months for more money to fight global AIDS. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, are both said to be devoted to the issue. 
The Central Intelligence Agency recently warned that AIDS in China, India and Russia, as well as in Africa, is a national security threat to the United States. 
Tonight, Mr. Bush said it was the nation's moral duty to help fight the epidemic. Noting that the cost of antiretroviral medications had dropped from $12,000 a year to roughly $300 a year, he said, "Seldom has history offered a greater opportunity to do so much for so many." 
Yet even the low price of $300 is too much for many poor African nations to afford. In his remarks tonight, Mr. Bush noted that while more than four million Africans require immediate drug treatment, only 50,000 are receiving the medicine they need. Describing a doctor in rural South Africa who tells his AIDS patients he cannot help them, Mr. Bush said, "In an age of miraculous medicines, no person should have to hear those words." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); EPIDEMICS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); ANTIVIRALS (65%); TERRORISM (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



925 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION: POLITICAL MEMO; 
Bush's Words Reflect An Eye Toward 2004

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
For all the talk about Iraq before tonight's address, President Bush devoted the first half of his speech to problems at home. Before he uttered a word about Saddam Hussein or Osama bin Laden, he uncustomarily talked about the AIDS epidemic and the need to mentor the children of inmates. And he proclaimed that his No. 1 goal was providing jobs for all.
 In doing so, Mr. Bush began to attend to a task that many Republicans say is important, though not yet urgent, as he prepares for his re-election campaign: to dispel any notion that he, like another president named Bush in the first half of his term, neglected domestic affairs and did not feel compassion for ordinary Americans. 
 Before Mr. Bush got around to the subject that has consumed his administration for five months -- removing Mr. Hussein from power, a topic he reached 50 minutes into his address -- he mentioned the need to create jobs, expand health care availability and help provide prescription drugs to elderly Americans. Those are the very issues on which the Democratic presidential contenders have been attacking Mr. Bush.
By the end of this evening, there was little doubt that Mr. Bush's speech, like addresses delivered by other presidents at the midpoint of their first terms, was offered as the rough first draft of his re-election campaign agenda. It was a telling example of the White House's determination that Mr. Bush not be viewed as so absorbed with events abroad that he would allow conditions to deteriorate at home. Mr. Bush devoted the entire first half speech of his speech, which the White House knew was certain to have higher and more focused viewership, to domestic issues. 
It signaled that the White House had come to agree with many Democrats that being a strong president at a time of war did not necessarily assure Mr. Bush the second term that eluded his father. Indeed, at times tonight it sounded as if Mr. Bush were addressing one of the Democratic presidential candidates, four of whom were in the chamber, as members of Congress, as he delivered his address.
"Our first goal is clear: we must have an economy that grows fast enough to employ every man and woman who seeks a job," Mr. Bush said, as the television cameras panned to the stern faces of his possible challengers: Senator John Edwards of North Carolina at one moment and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri at the next.
Mr. Bush presented his tax cut plan, which has been attacked by Democrats as a sop to the wealthy because it would eliminate the tax on dividends, as a plan that would benefit the working class and "the nearly 10 million seniors who receive dividend income." 
He spoke of his opposition to "the practice of partial-birth abortion," a view shared by most Americans, without restating his broader opposition to abortion rights. And again and again, whether he was talking about AIDS in Africa or the "homeless, the fatherless, the addicted," he took steps to soften what even Mr. Bush's supporters have described as the often-belligerent front he has presented over the past 15 months.
Many Republicans are confident about Mr. Bush's political standing as he enters the second half of his term. Still, some Republicans in interviews took nervous note of polls showing that discontent with the economy, and Mr. Bush's handling of it, is on the rise, and that the nation is ambivalent about a hasty war to remove Saddam Hussein.
"The president's speech could not have come at a better time," said Al Cardenas, the Republican state chairman from Florida. "This is a period of uncertainty in the minds of the electorate."
Mr. Bush's systematic effort to portray himself as concerned with job growth, the economy and prescription drugs -- after months in which he has focused almost entirely on Iraq -- suggested the risks this White House sees in assuming that the 2004 campaign will be a repeat of the 2002 one, when Democratic efforts to steer the debate to domestic concerns were eclipsed by international turmoil.
"It is an absolutely proportional response to the polls we're seeing and that the White House is seeing," said Jim Jordan, the campaign manager for one of the Democratic presidential candidates, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts. "As the president learned from his father's defeat, if you lose the public on domestic issues, if they sense you are disengaged or uncaring, you're bound for defeat."
Marc Racicot, the Republican national chairman, argued tonight that Mr. Bush was devoting as much time to dealing with problems at home as he was with problems abroad. But he acknowledged that polls suggested that many Americans were not aware of this.
The Republican National Committee issued a memorandum by one of its chief pollsters, Matthew Dowd, noting that Mr. Bush's approval rating remained high, at least by historical standards. At the same time, Mr. Dowd was quick to note that in recent years, presidents have not typically enjoyed any lift in their popularity in the immediate aftermath of a State of the Union address.
That might not even matter in the long term. Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, acknowledged that Mr. Bush's ratings had dropped -- but noted that the slide had not begun until after the midterm elections and that 2004 was still a long way away. 
"It's amazing," Mr. Gingrich said. "Imagine if he'd fallen next September. This is the most fortuitous timing I can remember since F.D.R." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); AIDS & HIV (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); AGING (67%); TAX LAW (65%); TAX RELIEF (60%); EPIDEMICS (57%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (52%); ABORTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (72%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003 



926 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Sony Profits Climb 96% In Quarter 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
The Sony Corporation reported today that its profits doubled, to a record, in the October-to-December quarter as sales of its PlayStation 2 video games and a string of hit movies offset lukewarm demand for its electronics.
 The company's prospects this year, though, are clouded by a potential downturn in consumer spending in the United States and other big markets and continued pressure from competitors to cut prices of digital cameras, computers and other gadgets. Analysts also warn that Sony's movie studio and games operations are unlikely to continue their record performance in 2003. 
 Last year, though, Sony's fortunes were lifted by a strong showing during an otherwise lackluster holiday season. Sony sold 42 percent more PlayStation 2 game consoles in North America during November and December as cumulative sales worldwide topped 50 million. Sony's movie studio also had record ticket sales of $2.75 billion last year thanks to hit movies like "Spider-Man" and "Men in Black II." Sony also earns a royalty when the movies are sold as DVD's and videos. 
The game and movie divisions helped Sony earn 125.4 billion yen ($1.1 billion) in the last three months of the year, a 96 percent increase over the period in 2001. The figure was 40 percent better than what analysts had forecast. Operating profits, which exclude one-time gains and tax charges, rose 26 percent, to 199.5 billion yen, while sales grew 1.2 percent, to a record 2.3 trillion yen.
Despite this strong performance, the company acknowledged that it was being reluctantly dragged into a battle with rivals that are slashing prices for televisions, flat-panel computer screens and computers. The company is also concerned that global political tensions could derail the fragile recovery in the United States, where Sony generates one-third of its revenue.
"The future is full of uncertainties, and consumer confidence is waning, so we have to keep a careful eye," said Teruhisa Tokunaka, Sony's chief financial officer, who left the company's full-year profit target of 180 billion yen ($1.5 billion) unchanged.
Potential losses in business operations, Mr. Tokunaka said, could be offset by the yen's slide against the euro and cutting production costs.
The larger concern, though, is whether PlayStation 2 can continue its torrid run. Sales soared in the second half of 2002 after Sony cut the price of its game console by one-third, to $199, in the United States. But the move cut into Sony's profit margin on the sale of each machine. Another concern is that Sony's PlayStation 3 console is unlikely to hit the stores until 2005. To steal market share, Microsoft may release an updated version of its X-Box console first.
"Obviously, the biggest driver for Sony is games, but it is also the biggest risk because when it peaks out, there is very little they can do about it," said Richard Chu, an analyst at ING Securities in Tokyo.
Sony's electronics division is also under pressure to cut prices to compete with lower-cost manufacturers like Samsung Electronics that are trying to position themselves as high-end makers of electronics. While sales of plasma display televisions and digital cameras are doing well, Sony's Vaio personal computers are suffering as consumers flock to lower-priced alternatives.
"It's not that Sony's products have gone down in quality, but that other companies in South Korea and Taiwan have gotten better," said John Yang, an equity analyst at Standard & Poor's in Tokyo. "As long as the quality is there, a lot of people will buy it."
The electronics division, which produced 65 percent of the company's sales, contributed just 41 percent to total operating profits in the October-to-December period. The games group, by contrast, earned more than one-third of Sony's profits even though it generated 17 percent of sales.
Sony also said today that it and Ericsson would each invest an additional 150 million euros ($162.4 million) in their joint venture that produces cellular phones. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); MARKET SHARE (76%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (76%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (73%); TICKET SALES (73%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (71%); COMPUTER MONITORS (71%); JAPANESE YEN (66%); EURO (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: SONY CORP (95%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (95%); SNE (NYSE) (95%); 6758 (TSE) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (95%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%) SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



927 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: HARD HAT SPECIAL; 
Dream Houses Get a Tryout in Vegas

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON 

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
TROY PETERSON is a short, compact man who gives the immediate impression that he can handle a hammer. Mr. Peterson, a contractor from Bellevue, Neb., was in Las Vegas last week to attend the International Builders' Show, the largest annual building trades event in the country. A record 92,000 people visited the four-day exhibition of materials, tools, appliances and services.
 Mr. Peterson, with three colleagues, was for the moment there to meet Candice Vanderbilt, a deeply tanned, largely naked showgirl. "I'm going to gawk up close," Mr. Peterson said to his confreres, stepping into a photo booth with Ms. Vanderbilt. 
 Whoever made the executive decision to stage the builders' show in Las Vegas is something of a wit, or a genius. On the Strip, the Venetian canals, the Eiffel Tower, the volcanoes and the pyramids were not dissimilar from the synthetic English-style moldings, the Tuscan-style flagstones and the French-style paneling that crowded the aisles inside the 1.2-million-square-foot Las Vegas Convention Center, cheek by jowl with insulation and house wrap. 
Las Vegas is the nation's weirdest construction site, and the new American home is not far behind, increasingly being built with a taste for fantasy, novelty and the odd reassuring metaphor like a hearth. (An electric fireplace is O.K.)
If the show is any indication of what people want, it is a full-service illusion of emotional peace, physical security and worldly self-statement. There is also a born-again awareness of economy, reflected in the prevalence of composite and recycled stuffs, and promises everywhere of energy efficiency. But there are toys, too. Jacuzzi's $31,000 tub with a flat-screen television and surround-sound speakers looks like a Porsche with a wading pool in the middle. Construction Jack, an action figure, also had a booth.
There were 976,000 new-home sales and 1.69 million housing starts in 2002, a banner year according to the National Association of Home Builders, the event's sponsor. Spending on remodeling exceeded $214 billion.
To walk the show's three pavilions was to understand that unreality is actually the most mundane kind of reality. The "English thatch" on display was concrete Lifetile, available from Monier, a roofing company in Irvine, Calif. It has a limited lifetime warranty -- your dream should last so long.
There was a cavalcade of products, and, riding shotgun, trends and insights.
Technology in the home and the idea of connectivity between its parts are now inevitabilities, builders agreed. Central computerized panels that will open drapery, lock doors, time meals, play movies, watch the weather and baby-sit are no longer gadgets in customers' minds.
There is still a far-fetched fringe. ViewPoint, a prototype picture window from Andersen, is also a digital multimedia flat screen, showing DVD's when the sunset fails to deliver.
"As TV has come in, the anthropology of the house has changed, and the orientation of the room has turned in," said Russ Pylkki, demonstrating the transparent window, which turned, on remote command, into "Star Wars: Episode II -- Attack of the Clones," startling a small crowd of builders and their wives. The product was a strange appeasement that acknowledged the window industry's belief that it is battling entertainment centers for wall space. "We're trying to get that anthropology back," Mr. Pylkki said with some sadness.
LG Electronics displayed an $8,000 Internet-capable refrigerator with a door-mounted touch pad tablet that stored recipes and took pictures, whether of hungry intruders or cheating dieters was unclear. LG is one of several international electronics companies, including Samsung, making a big push into the major appliance market in the United States.
"What's it do -- show you what's inside?" asked Stephen Keelty, a developer and builder from Timonium, Md. "I can't imagine utilizing this, not for $8,000." Mr. Keelty said his high end for an appliance like a refrigerator for a custom home was $2,500.
But Westinghouse's "Beyond 'Connected Home' Initiative," which includes Icebox, a Internet-capable kitchen flip screen, is a virtual blueprint of where the house is headed. The "electronic lifestyle" includes, by Beyond's definition, "home care devices, home hub command center, telephony, health medical devices, monitoring security devices, entertainment command center, games, connected appliances and lighting."
Icebox has a video baby monitor, for instance, some version of which seems likely to be standard equipment in the not very distant future.
Schlage, the lockmaker, introduced E-Bolt, a "key management" system with a programmable deadbolt that could conveniently and cheaply foil ex-lovers as well as thieves. (Brink's, the armored-truck company, was present with home protection products, too. No front-door gun ports.)
And General Electric Appliances introduced Harmony, a tag-team washer and dryer that electronically share information on loads of clothes and types of fabrics to set water levels and drying temperatures. The set, also operated by touch pad, was designed in part to make doing the laundry a task that can more easily be performed by children, a "latchkey kids" feature that is appearing on kitchen appliances like ovens as well.
In the kitchen, technologies were being piggybacked, if expensively, to avoid confusing choices for consumers. Sub-Zero/Wolf and Viking displayed ranges with gas cooktops and electric ovens. General Electric's newest oven, "Profile With Innovection," with microwave, thermal and convection capacities, was put through its paces by Alton Brown, the star of the Food Network's "Good Eats" and one of several celebrity chefs working the show, including Bobby Flay at LG. At $2,400, it has a 33 percent premium over G.E.'s conventional ovens.
Julien, a Canadian commercial kitchen company, introduced its first heavy-duty stainless-steel residential models to capitalize on the continuing sales appeal of commercial cooking equipment. And several manufacturers like Viking and Heat-N-Glo, a fireplace company, also furnished their booths with large outdoor kitchens incorporating islands, countertops and appliances, in addition to grills -- a consolidation of a trend to make the deck the next living room.
The skylights at Velux revealed an interesting architectural wrinkle in the recent phenomenon of McMansions built on Mini-Me lots. Velux, a global roof-window company, thinks the future is looking up, literally, as the proximity of houses with side windows brings unwelcome views and a lack of privacy.
"This is not how I planned to meet my neighbors," read the blowups on posters. "Smaller lots and larger homes are creating new privacy challenges for builders." In the photographs, a man in his bathroom brushed his teeth while a couple next door looked on. Andersen Windows may have to introduce a ceiling-mounted drive-in movie screen to compete.
As the popularity of home spas has proved, the bathroom could be the last frontier of personal peace in the house -- the water sign of the family zodiac, removed from the society of the open kitchen or the great room or the stealthy stress of the home office. Kohler, the Wisconsin company, exhibited Purist, a line of sinks and fixtures that are, superficially, minimalist in style. They also strip the experience of washing or bathing to its element, which is unadorned, uninterrupted running water -- not an improvement or a technology or a remarkable new synthetic, but the thing itself, as simple as a garden hose in the summer.
Nothing else at the 2003 show seemed half as sophisticated.

GRAPHIC: Photos: BUILDERS' SHOW -- At the country's biggest building trades event, held in Las Vegas last week, Jacuzzi unveiled a $31,000 whirlpool bath with a flat-screen TV and surround-sound speakers. (John Gurzinski for The New York Times)(pg. F1); HIGH/LOW TECH -- Left, Kohler's Purist sink; right, Construction Jack; below, G.E.'s Wireless Weather Station.; PLAYERS -- A modular house, far left, from Genesis Homes. Inset, Matt Lewis, a k a Elvis, and Candice Vanderbilt at the builders' show. (Photographs by John Gurzinski for The New York Times; Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times doll )(pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); BUILDING AUTOMATION (76%); TRENDS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (72%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (68%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (63%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (63%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (60%) BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); HOUSING; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; INTERIOR DESIGN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%) LAS VEGAS (NEV)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



928 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: LVMH Sells Its 33% Interest In Michael Kors Sportswear 

BYLINE:  By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
Continuing to undo a spending spree, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton announced yesterday the sale of its 33 percent interest in Michael Kors, the prestigious American fashion brand. 
 LVMH has been busy of late paring away some of the less productive of its 50 brands. Earlier this week, the company disposed of a 27.5 percent stake in an auction house, Phillips de Pury & Luxembourg, and confirmed that it had sold two beauty brands, Hard Candy and Urban Decay, last month. 
 As LVMH trims down, another company showed itself willing to underwrite Mr. Kors's fashion house, a mainstay of luxurious but understated American sportswear. Sportswear Holdings, controlled by Silas K. F. Chou and Lawrence Stroll, has acquired the Kors label.
Sportswear Holdings is purchasing LVMH's stake and the interests of John Orchulli, Mr. Kors's longtime business partner, and Onward Kashiyama, which holds the worldwide license for the Michael Kors secondary line. The terms of the agreement were not disclosed. 
The sale is expected to benefit both LVMH and Mr. Kors, who indicated that he had come to feel neglected by LVMH, a sprawling luxury conglomerate. He will keep an ownership stake in his company. "For us this is a win-win situation," Mr. Kors said. He added that although the acquisition of his design house by LVMH in 1997 initially helped its expansion, it had not thrived as he had hoped.
"Quite honestly, LVMH was a minority shareholder," Mr. Kors said. "They were not really involved in the day-to-day business." 
In addition, Mr. Kors, who is the creative director and designer at Celine, an LVMH division, will continue in that role through March 2004.
James M. Fingeroth, a spokesman for LVMH, said the company had not planned to sell. "But when Michael Kors came to us and asked to buy back its share, we understood the rationale," he said. But he insisted that the move by LVMH was "not part of a grand strategy to sell off brands." 
In a conference call last week, Patrick Houel, the chief financial officer for LVMH, disclosed that similar transactions were being contemplated.
LVMH reported a sales increase last year of 3.8 percent, to $13.58 billion. 
Sagra de Rosen, an analyst with J. P. Morgan Chase in London, called the sale "part of a strategy LVMH has highlighted, to dispose of minor nonstrategic brands that take up management time but are not really very profitable and perhaps have not that much potential either going forward." 
She added that for LVMH, the sale was good news, signaling that the conglomerate was becoming more focused and efficient.
During its period of maximum expansion, before the worldwide economic slowdown, LVMH acquired Donna Karan, Thomas Pink, Sephora and others. The announcement of the sale is also great news for Michael Kors, Ms. de Rosen said.
"In such a huge company, he was kind of getting lost," she said.
Mr. Kors, 42, who plans to present his next collection on Feb. 12 in New York during Fashion Week, seemed jubilant. He stressed that he would continue to maintain the pragmatism that has kept him in business for 22 years.
"My collections have never been about runway hysterics," he said. "I have always designed for the consumer." 
"I always ask myself: 'Can the client walk in that shoe? Will her handbag function? How will she look in the clothes?' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Kors, shown after a September fashion show, will keep an ownership stake in his company. (Associated Press)(pg. W1); Michael Kors says his collections take a pragmatic approach to fashion. Sportswear Holdings says it is acquiring the Kors label. (Associated Press)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (98%); HUGE CO INC (60%); ONWARD HOLDINGS CO LTD (56%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (52%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (98%); LVMH (BIT) (98%); 8016 (TSE) (56%); JPM (NYSE) (52%); JPM (LSE) (52%); 8634 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (98%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (98%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (60%); NAICS315990 APPAREL ACCESSORIES & OTHER APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2389 APPAREL & ACCESSORIES, NEC (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



929 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 802 words

PERSON: Bill Moore 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
A Windmill Builder, Tilting at the Old Ways

BYLINE:  By COREY KILGANNON

DATELINE: MADISON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
ROMPING giddily in the snow at the windmill farm he built here in central New York, Bill Moore bears little resemblance to the Yale-educated consultant he once was, working in Manhattan on the financing of nuclear power plants and other utilities.
 After Mr. Moore, 46, quit Wall Street several years ago to develop wind farms, his old finance colleagues chuckled at him and his tree-hugging obsession. 
 Mr. Moore's company, Atlantic Renewable Energy, has developed five of the seven commercial wind farms operating in the Eastern United States, but they have had problems finding buyers in the energy market. He has spent the last three years trying to build the biggest windmill farm in the East, which has yet to break ground or attract investors. His former colleagues wondered if he was building windmills or just tilting at them. 
Then, this month, Gov. George E. Pataki issued a directive that a quarter of the state's electricity supply should come from so-called green sources, like wind or solar or hydroelectric power, within the next decade. This would require suppliers to buy a percentage of "clean energy" at a slightly higher price than conventionally produced energy.
Now it seems as if Mr. Moore might have the last laugh.
"No one knows we're up here doing this," he said. "It's like we're in a vacuum sometimes. And that's fine. We have a good head start."
On a quiet, snowy hilltop in Madison, a town 40 miles southeast of Syracuse with about 2,800 residents, Mr. Moore walked among seven huge windmills and beamed like a happy father.
"You can actually feel it sucking the energy out of the wind," he said.
Each 1.5-megawatt induction generator weighs 65 tons. Each has a three-blade rotor on a hollow cylinder. The sleek white windmills overhead, about 330 feet tall, emit a gentle, whooshing noise. These are made in Denmark and cost $1.8 million each to buy and install.
The windmills have an other-worldly look, like something out of a science fiction movie.
"They have an elemental quality," Mr. Moore said, staring up at a windmill as the wind spun its blades against the blue-gray sky. "When the light hits it right, the white blades against the blue sky, the setting sun, it can take your breath away."
Maybe, but certainly not now. Mr. Moore has a calm, quiet speaking style, but when it comes to talking windmills he seems powered by the endless energy of the wind.
The governor's order could bring investors and push power companies to buy the electricity, which costs a bit more than electricity produced by gas, oil, coal or nuclear power. "It could really jump-start this whole industry," he said. 
He spoke while steering his Land Rover through Madison, a Mozart clarinet quintet on the radio. He braked for some snowmobilers.
Madison County is a region dense with trailer parks and pickup trucks and backyard smokehouses stuffed with deer meat. In much of this region, industry has left and dairy farmers have come upon hard times. But the region still has its elevated plateaus and strong lake winds and a big demand for power.
MR. MOORE grew up in Greenwich, Conn. As an undergraduate at Yale, he wrote his senior paper on wind and solar energy. He also got a master's in economics from Yale, specializing in financing environmental energy plants.
On most weekends he flies back home to Maryland, to the old farmhouse he is renovating. Most of his weekdays are spent on the road, which has kept him a bachelor, he said. A couple years ago, his girlfriend gave up on him. He took 27 trips to Costa Rica in a year; she took her dogs and moved to Colorado. He has put 135,000 miles on his Land Rover in the last two years.
Mr. Moore's romance with windmills began with an epiphany in 1997.
"I was in Denmark and I walked up to a megawatt-scale generator and I knew I had to start building these."
He spends much of his time trying to get his largest project, called Tug Hill, in Lewis County, east of Lake Ontario, off the ground. The farm would have 160 windmills stretching across 10 miles. The challenge, he said, is winning the trust of local landowners, to lease space for the farms.
"When I first started visiting farmers, we'd sit down and I'd start scribbling notes in my book," he recalled. "I soon realized that you don't walk into a farmer's kitchen and start talking business. They want to talk for an hour, just for the conversation."
As for the aesthetic debate, Mr. Moore said, "It's really in the eye of the beholder."
"There is certainly a visual impact," he said. "But when you look at the side effects of producing power, the aesthetic issue is pretty far down the list."
The complaints come from the weekenders, who want quaintness, antiques and scenery.
"It's my Starbucks rule," he said. "If there's a coffee chain in town, you know those are the people who will be complaining."

GRAPHIC: Photo: BILL MOORE (Dennis Nett for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (91%); WIND POWER PLANTS (91%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (77%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); GOVERNORS (75%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



930 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
In a Crisis, Pataki Steers Right

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK

 BODY:
THE question of the week: What is Gov. George E. Pataki running for, now that he has won a third term? It must be something, because while governors all around the country -- including decidedly conservative Republican governors -- are raising taxes to balance their budgets, Mr. Pataki presented a budget plan yesterday that adamantly avoids broad-based tax increases, cuts core spending, and will make a lot of people unhappy.
 In a way, he's baaack. Not all the way, but mostly. 
 Mr. Pataki, the initially conservative Republican who presented such generous budgets in recent years that he got the moniker "Rockefeller lite," took a sharp right turn yesterday. It was almost as if he had an eye on his next job and was signaling his fellow Republicans that the old George has returned. Cuts, yes; taxes, no.
Despite the worst fiscal crisis in New York in more than 60 years, the governor adamantly refused to consider broad-based tax increases. He wants tough cuts in spending that could force local governments to raise their own taxes, is seeking higher fees and some limited tax increases -- and is pushing optimism. "Together we will lead New York to its greatest day," he said, standing on a flower-decorated stage in wintry Albany.
But like that splash of flowers, which managed to look funereal instead of cheerful, the governor's current conduct hasn't quite convinced the experts of his real identity. Which George Pataki is he and how long will he stay that way? "He couldn't continue on that path," said E. J. McMahon, an analyst with the Manhattan Institute, referring to the governor's liberal drift in recent years. "He had to change. But for how long?"
It certainly is confusing, the chameleonlike changes. Last year the governor presented an election-year budget that would have made his predecessor, Mario M. Cuomo, proud. Citing Sept. 11, Mr. Pataki spent the state surplus and its reserves to avoid cuts and tax increases, and he made a generous deal with the hospital union.
Now, Mr. Pataki is lecturing about the evils of taxation and is asking the Legislature to cut health care and education and raise fees and surcharges, largely on the poor. Flying in the face of ample evidence that the economy was in trouble before the terrorist attack, he is continuing to place most of the blame for the state's problems on Sept. 11, giving second billing to the collapse of the stock market bubble and the national recession, and has said not a word about his own decision not even to acknowledge the state's economic problems until after he was safely re-elected. "Today's enormous deficit was caused by events beyond our control," he said.
In fact, other governors were exercising significant budget control, but he would not, during his campaign, take significant action to stanch the economic bleeding -- which could have limited the damage.
NOW facing a budget gap of more than $10 billion, Mr. Pataki is finally taking ample note of the fiscal crisis he had previously denied, while reiterating his campaign pledge against tax increases. "Raising taxes this year, or any year, is the wrong choice," he said yesterday. But his proposal does impose new burdens on some New Yorkers, largely poor and moderate-income New Yorkers.
It calls for sharp tuition increases at the state and city universities, and, in a double hit on the same population, cuts several financial aid programs and scholarships.
His budget plan cuts general education aid and the financing of several specific programs, including kindergarten and special education; calls for repeal of the sales-tax exemption on clothing over $110; and takes large bites out of health care.
While boasting of "the best and strongest" health care system in the country, Mr. Pataki calls for cuts in some Medicaid services and drug benefits. He would make it harder, too, for people to qualify for Family Health Plus, the program for the working poor that the governor promoted so heavily during his re-election campaign.
His budget does not call for reinstating a commuter tax, which Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg wants, to help close the city's own significant budget gap, and does not come close to giving his fellow Republican the resources he needs to balance the city budget. Separate from the budget are impending increases in the bus, subway and commuter train fares.
Like old times, the city versus the state. 
What is the governor's next incarnation? Depends, as with most politicians, on what he wants. Over the years he has proven that he is less the ideologue than the pragmatist. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); TERRORISM (61%); HOSPITALS (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



931 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Links Indonesian Troops to Deaths of 2 Americans 

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND BONNER

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
Bush administration officials have determined that Indonesian soldiers carried out a deadly ambush that killed two American teachers returning from a picnic in a remote area of Indonesia last August, senior administration officials say. 
 The conclusion, which follows a preliminary investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, is likely to muddy relations between Washington and Jakarta. 
 Indonesia is the world's most populous Muslim nation, and the Bush administration has been trying to persuade its president, Megawati Sukarnoputri, to take a more aggressive stand against terrorism and to support Washington's policy on Iraq. 
Last month, in a reflection of the administration's concern about the killings, President Bush secretly dispatched an influential emissary to tell President Megawati that the Indonesians must mount a serious investigation -- with F.B.I. participation. The official, Karen Brooks, is the National Security Council's senior Asian specialist; she also has a deep personal and professional relationship with President Megawati. 
Indonesian leaders tend to bristle at outside interference, and especially as the United States prepares for a possible war with Iraq, which the vast majority of Indonesians oppose. Even so, Ms. Brooks's mission seems to have been successful, at least in part. Two F.B.I. agents arrived in Indonesia last week to help in the investigation. 
The Indonesian military has denied any involvement in the ambush, which also killed an Indonesian teacher and wounded eight Americans. But a report by the country's police force last year suggested that the military was behind the killings. 
The two F.B.I. agents now in Indonesia are gathering evidence for the Justice Department in Washington, American and other Western officials in the region said. 
"There is no question there was military involvement," said a senior administration official. "There is no question it was premeditated." 
The administration official and diplomats from other countries said there was still a mystery about who ordered the killings and why. They said the most likely explanation was that soldiers were trying to send a message to the teachers' employer, an American company that operates one of the world's largest copper and gold mines in the area. The company, Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold, had reduced payments and other benefits to soldiers, the officials said. 
"Extortion, pure and simple," said a Western intelligence analyst, explaining what he believed was behind the attack. 
Freeport has declined to answer any questions about the killings or about payments to the police and the military. 
"This is a police matter, and we cannot comment on the ongoing investigation," said a company spokesman, Siddharta Moersjid. "Freeport hopes the perpetrators, whoever they are, will be brought to justice." 
The victims, who taught at Freeport's international school, were ambushed last Aug. 31, as they traveled a twisting mountain road between two military posts near Tembagapura, a mile-high company town on the equator in Irian Jaya, an eastern province also known as Papua. 
The party -- the school's new principal, his teachers and their families -- had cut its Saturday picnic short when fog and mist rolled in. At a bend in the road back to town, with a steep gorge on the right and a small hill on the left, several men sprayed the group's two Toyota Land Cruisers with automatic weapons fire. 
The Americans slain in the ambush were the principal, Edwin Burgon, 71, a former smoke jumper in Idaho who had taught around the world, and Ricky Lynn Spier, 44, a fourth-grade teacher from Colorado. The school's Indonesian teacher, Bambang Riwanto, was also killed. 
Immediately, Indonesian and Freeport officials blamed a separatist group, the Free Papua Movement, which has been fighting a low-level guerrilla war for independence, or at least more autonomy for Papuans, for several decades. Many Papuans harbor deep animosity toward Freeport; along with some international human rights groups, they say the company has destroyed sacred lands, ravaged the environment and failed to share mineral wealth with local communities. 
Soon after the ambush, a team from the American Embassy, including an F.B.I. agent from Singapore, went to Irian Jaya to investigate; the F.B.I. also interviewed survivors, who had been flown to a hospital in Australia. 
Suspicion quickly turned away from the separatists, though. In the course of that early investigation, the Australian government gave the United States a telephone intercept between Indonesian military commanders. The conversation, which took place after the incident, leaves no doubt of military involvement in the killings, said a Western official, but he added that it did not implicate senior army commanders. 
Indonesian police investigators also exonerated the rebels. For one thing, the police report says, the group "does not have the quantity of bullets" used in the attack, and the organization "never kills white people." The report, dated last Sept. 28, concluded that "there is a strong possibility" that the killings were perpetrated by members of the Indonesian Army. 
But that was pretty much the end of the police investigation. 
"The police don't have any right to investigate the army," said Brig. Gen. Raziman Tarigan, who was deputy police chief in Irian Jaya until he was abruptly removed this month and assigned to a desk job in Jakarta. 
Still, the police report does raise the possibility that money from Freeport may have been the motivation. A soldier's pay is roughly $15 a month, the report says, adding that soldiers have a "a high expectation" when they get assigned to the Freeport area. But they had been disappointed by what they received, and some "perks" had been reduced. 
General Tarigan said Freeport regularly gave policemen and soldiers money and other benefits, like airline tickets to Jakarta. A general received a first- or business-class ticket, while colonels and others received economy tickets, he said. In addition, former Freeport employees said the company had a $10,000 monthly "slush fund" for government security personnel. 
The Indonesian military receives less than one-third of its budget from the government. To make up the difference, it relies on its own business activities as well as supplements from foreign businesses, especially natural-resource companies. 
Freeport had begun to reduce these payments, on the advice of company lawyers who said they would have to be disclosed under new American corporate-responsibility laws, Western officials and people close to the company said. They also said the military wanted a portion of payments -- 1 percent of profits -- that Freeport makes for community projects, part of its effort to improve local relations. 
That pressure was apparently on the increase: investigators say they have been told that, in the weeks before the attack, Freeport had received threats of retaliation from the military if more money was not forthcoming. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Saundra Hopkins and her daughter, Taia, survived the ambush. (Reuters); Indonesian police officers searched for suspects after an ambush on a group of American and Indonesian educators last August. Two Americans and an Indonesian were killed, and eight Americans were wounded. (Agence France-Presse) Map of Indonesia highlights the site of the ambush: The F.B.I. investigated the ambush last August in Irian Jaya. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); TERRORISM (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); IRAQ WAR (70%); MOUNTAINS (69%); COPPER MINING (65%); GOLD MINING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (93%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

TICKER: FCX (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (63%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (63%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (63%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (63%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (63%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (63%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (63%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (63%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (63%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (63%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (91%) EQUATOR (50%) UNITED STATES (99%); INDONESIA (97%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



932 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Puzzle for Israel: What Does Sharon Want? 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET

DATELINE: TEL AVIV, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
As Prime Minister Ariel Sharon set about wooing potential coalition partners today, a familiar question recurred in Israeli political circles: what does Mr. Sharon want?
 With his smashing victory over the left-of-center Labor Party, he is now in position to do precisely what his rightist Likud Party officially demands: to prevent the establishment of a Palestinian state in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. 
 Mr. Sharon would now easily have majority support in Parliament to expel Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader -- a step he has said he wants to take -- and to accelerate the already rapid growth of Israeli settlements in the West Bank and Gaza. He is free to tighten the already harsh restrictions on the more than three million Palestinians who live there. 
Yet today Mr. Sharon urgently appealed for the seemingly crippled Labor Party, whose votes he does not need for a majority, to join a new governing coalition. Likud soared from 19 seats in the 120-seat Parliament to 37, while Labor fell from 25 to 19, its poorest showing ever.
The appeal awakened a long-running debate over what, precisely, Mr. Sharon is after. He has repeatedly said he would make "painful concessions" for peace, but he has not spelled out what the concessions would be.
One theory, held by Palestinians and leftist Israelis, is that Mr. Sharon, master strategist, is seeking the political camouflage that Labor's participation would give his rightist policies. 
Amram Mitzna, Labor's leader, believes that Labor played that role for Mr. Sharon in his last coalition government -- and paid the price for its compromised identity in the voting on Tuesday.
The other theory, held by many settlers, is that Mr. Sharon, master strategist, wants to confound the hawks by reaching a historic peace agreement with the Palestinians. The Labor Party would serve as political leverage, not camouflage.
According to that theory, Mr. Sharon, at 74, wants to vault into the ranks of Israeli peacemakers like Menachem Begin and Yitzhak Rabin, and to erase the blots on his own record. Meir Sheetrit, a moderate Likud politician, likes to say that with a second term Mr. Sharon has the chance to "make history" or "be history."
"I think he wants to make history," said Mr. Sheetrit, who favors the resumption of a peace effort.
There is, of course, another possibility: that Mr. Sharon is a master tactician, not a master strategist, and that he is trying to survive in office and retain the backing of the United States while advancing in a general direction, rather than toward a specific goal.
Mr. Sharon opposed the Oslo peace agreement as a threat to Israeli security, and as Palestinian violence has continued, Israel has taken back almost all of the autonomy that was granted to the Palestinian Authority under Oslo. 
Mr. Sharon always feared and distrusted Yasir Arafat, and under Mr. Sharon Israel has in effect imprisoned the Palestinian leader in Ramallah. Mr. Sharon always supported the settlements, and under him the settlements have grown.
The prime minister supports what he calls a long-term interim arrangement with the Palestinians. That is effectively what he has now, with no talks toward a final settlement of the dispute under way. All this has happened with the Bush administration's acquiescence if not outright support.
"My guess is, without the deaths and the loss of life, the situation now is probably as close to what he would want as he could imagine," said Asher Arian, a political scientist at Haifa University. "He's not really negotiating. He's not moving. He's building the settlements."
According to that theory, Mr. Sharon actually means what he says -- as, it might be noted, he himself claims. "What I say, I mean, and what I mean, I say," Mr. Sharon recently told foreign reporters.
In his autobiography, "Warrior," Mr. Sharon wrote that while he was leading Israel's crack paratroopers in the 1950's, he decided that a policy of mere retaliation or deterrence was not enough to secure a haven for Jews in a region dominated by Arabs.
His goal, he said, "was to create in the Arabs a psychology of defeat, to beat them every time and to beat them so decisively that they would develop the conviction that they would never win."
In March of last year, Mr. Sharon said of Israel's response to Palestinian terrorism: "The aim is to increase the number of losses on the other side. Only after they've been battered will we be able to conduct talks." 
That was before Israel began what has proved to be its biggest military offensive since, as defense minister, Mr. Sharon led the invasion of Lebanon in 1982.
Mr. Sharon's repeated answer to the Americans' various forays into peacemaking here has been a quick yes, followed more quietly by modifications. He has taken that approach to the "road map" to peace and a Palestinian state that the Bush administration is drafting with diplomatic allies. Mr. Sharon says he "accepts" the road map, but that he also wants numerous changes made.
Over the last two years he has added conditions to a resumption of negotiations with the Palestinians, and the Bush administration has agreed to each one. 
First Mr. Sharon demanded that the Palestinians halt all violence and dismantle all terrorist organizations. Then he demanded that Mr. Arafat be replaced, and that the Palestinians reform their security forces, economic system and governance.
Today Mr. Arafat offered to meet Mr. Sharon immediately, but the prime minister dismissed the proposal, declaring in a statement that Mr. Arafat was tied to terrorism and "will not be a partner for negotiations."
President Bush effectively endorsed Mr. Sharon's conditions in a speech in June. The draft road map, by contrast, demands that Israel also speedily make concessions, including stopping settlement construction. In saying he accepts the plan, Mr. Sharon means that he accepts what Mr. Bush said in June.
Mr. Sharon has said he will accept an eventual Palestinian state that would occupy less than half of the West Bank -- and none of Jerusalem -- and be demilitarized. Israel would control its airspace. He envisions the borders of this state as being made final in perhaps 10 years.
Under Mr. Sharon's plan, Israel would retain areas of the West Bank that he regards as essential to security -- areas where, not incidentally, most of the settlements have been built.
"He thinks he can settle the problem at a lower cost, and on a longer timetable," said Shimon Peres, long a leading figure in the Labor Party, who served as Mr. Sharon's foreign minister in the unity coalition.
He said he doubted that any Palestinian leadership would agree to Mr. Sharon's terms. "The Likud doesn't understand that to make peace with the Palestinians you need the Palestinians," he said.
Another of Mr. Sharon's former ministers from Labor, Ephraim Sneh, said today that the time had come to end the guessing game over whether the prime minister wants to make peace or war.
"Instead of judging between two assumptions," Mr. Sneh said, "I suggest something different: let him act, and if he goes in the right direction we shall give him full support, even, if needed, to join him after he did the right thing."
Asked what Labor would consider a possible litmus test to demonstrate Mr. Sharon's intentions, Mr. Sneh said he should dismantle the many settlement outposts built in the last two years that Israel has considered illegal.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of Ariel Sharon celebrated in Tel Aviv on Tuesday night. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



933 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: SECURITY MEASURES; 
Pakistan Asks U.S. to Reduce Restrictions on Its Citizens

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
Pakistan's foreign minister urged senior American officials today to ease regulations requiring Pakistani men in the United States to be registered and fingerprinted. He suggested that Islamabad would find it easier to defend American military action in Iraq if the rules were changed.
 In extended meetings with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Attorney General John Ashcroft, the foreign minister, Khurshid Mahmud Kasuri, said the registration program had created great anxiety among Pakistani immigrants in the United States and had infuriated people in Pakistan, strengthening the hand of anti-American factions. 
 "What we are afraid of is mass deportation of Pakistanis," Mr. Kasuri told reporters at the State Department. "That will be devastating, and it will place undue pressures on our relationship." 
Pakistan is a member of the United Nations Security Council, which may be called on to consider a second resolution authorizing the use of military force to disarm Iraq. Although Pakistan does not have veto power on the Council, its vote is considered important because the United States will want to show support from some Muslim states if it decides to use force against Iraq, American officials said.
Pakistani and American officials said Mr. Kasuri did not bluntly link Pakistan's support for an Iraq invasion to changing the registration policy. But they said the connection was obvious.
"It will make it easier for us to sell an Iraqi attack back home" if the rules are eased, a Pakistani official said. Referring to Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, he added, "The perception back home is that, so far, Musharraf has gotten a bad deal out of supporting the war on terrorism."
Islamabad has not ruled out supporting the use of force against Iraq, but has said it wants the United States to resolve the impasse through the United Nations.
Under the regulations, males older than 16 from 25 designated countries who are visiting or living in the United States without permanent resident status must register with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. With the exception of North Korea, all of the 25 countries are Arab or predominantly Muslim.
Registration -- which includes being interviewed, fingerprinted and photographed -- must be completed by Pakistanis by Feb. 21, under threat of deportation. Mr. Kasuri estimated that there were more than 20,000 Pakistani men who would need to register. He said he had urged Pakistanis to obey the rules in meetings across the United States this past week and in radio broadcasts.
Pakistan has requested that it be exempted from the rules, arguing that its support for the war against terrorism should give it special status. But Mr. Kasuri said today that he had proposed several ideas short of exemption that might make the registration process less onerous to Pakistanis. 
"It is my feeling the administration realizes the fears of Pakistanis, and as a result there will not be a large number of Pakistani deportations," he said.
American officials said they considered it unlikely that the administration would exempt Pakistan from the policy, but left the door open to considering concessions to make the registration process smoother for Pakistanis, possibly including hiring more workers to speed the registration.
"We appreciate all the contributions that Pakistanis have made to American life, and so many Pakistanis have become American citizens," Mr. Powell said. "The minister has my full assurance that we will be doing everything to implement this program in a dignified manner."
American officials said Pakistan has also raised concerns about economic disruptions in Pakistan if the United States goes to war against Iraq, particularly the possibility of a surge in oil prices or the loss of remittances from Pakistani workers in the Persian Gulf.
As a result, the State Department is considering expanding the $55 million aid package that Pakistan is scheduled to receive this year. Washington also expects to spend $73 million to assist Pakistan in improving security along its border with Afghanistan.
"They are looking particularly to the U.S. and to others to help make up any fallout, particularly on the oil prices," a State Department official said. "They could be really thrown off if the oil price went way up, or the remittances went down."
Mr. Powell also raised concerns with Mr. Kasuri today about the continued infiltration of Muslim guerrillas from Pakistan into Kashmir, where fighting has flared again in recent days, the State Department official said. The region has been disputed by Pakistan and India since the two countries became independent in 1947.
The United States is particularly concerned that the infiltration will increase markedly as spring temperatures melt ice in the mountain passes linking Pakistan and Kashmir. The official suggested that Pakistan was not doing all it could to stem the flow of guerrillas. 
Mr. Kasuri asserted in a news conference at the Pakistani Embassy later in the day that Islamabad was willing to have international monitors oversee the Kashmir border to reduce tensions, but that India had rejected the idea. 
"India is not prepared to accept that this is largely an indigenous movement," he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Khurshid Mahmud Kashuri, left, and Colin L. Powell discussed Pakistan's concerns about security measures. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); VETO (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (71%); TERRORISM (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (99%); IRAQ (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



934 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Fed Leaves Key Short-Term Rate Unchanged at 1.25% 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged today, though it suggested that the biggest restraint on economic growth stemmed from uncertainties about a possible war with Iraq.
 In leaving the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks at 1.25 percent, the lowest level in 41 years, the Fed's monetary policy committee said the balance of risks had not changed significantly since its last meeting in December. 
 "Oil price premiums and other aspects of geopolitical risks have reportedly fostered continued restraint on spending and hiring by business," the Fed said in a statement after today's meeting.
Essentially reiterating what Fed officials have said since they last reduced interest rates, in November, the Federal Open Market Committee went on to say that the combination of easy monetary policy and improving productivity should help the economy recover once the "geopolitical risks" are lifted. 
Today's decision was not a surprise to most analysts, who have been predicting that the Federal Reserve will keep interest rates at their current level for the next few months.
Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has on several occasions described the economy as being in a "soft patch," and he has described the decision to reduce rates from 1.75 percent to 1.25 percent as an "insurance premium" for preventing a more serious economic slowdown.
Economic growth all but stopped and unemployment jumped in the three months ended in December after a surprisingly strong third quarter.
The government will release its first estimate of fourth-quarter growth on Thursday, and many economists predict that it will show an annualized growth rate well below 1 percent.
There have been some signs that conditions are improving. Housing starts surged last month, and orders for manufactured goods have increased slightly after a long stretch of stagnation.
Perhaps more important, investors are showing signs of greater optimism. The spread in interest rates between different categories of bonds has narrowed in the last several weeks, which is usually a sign that investors perceive that risks have diminished. 
Mr. Greenspan has long paid close attention to bond spreads, and the narrowing of those spreads is more important than usual in the current atmosphere of uncertainty about Iraq.
But those hints of encouragement have been offset by stagnant or declining prices for many products, factories running at levels far below full capacity and rising unemployment.
The Fed's so-called beige book report, a compilation of anecdotal evidence about the economy collected by its 12 regional banks, showed sluggish growth in most regions from November through early January.
"Most Districts characterized growth as 'sluggish' or economic activity as 'soft,' " the report said. It described consumer spending as "consistently weak," with most parts of the country reporting flat or declining sales. The report said manufacturers were still struggling with weak demand and that investment in capital equipment used in factories remained stagnant in most parts of the country.
Stuart G. Hoffman, an economist at PNC Financial Services in Pittsburgh, said the economy continued to send mixed signals about the likelihood of a recovery. "I don't think anybody can conclude that the economy has come out of its soft spot yet," he said.
Fed officials are keenly aware of the dangers posed by war anxieties, which they view as a matter outside their control. Even with interest rates at extraordinarily low levels, corporations could delay investments and expansion for several months if they remain uncertain about the likelihood or the duration of a possible war.
At worst, that could lead to a second economic slowdown or double-dip recession.
At the moment, the world's financial markets are betting that the Fed will continue to keep interest rates low for at least the next several months.
Prices for federal funds futures, financial instruments that essentially allow investors to bet on the direction of the federal funds rate, indicate a belief that interest rates will stay at the current level until at least the second half of this year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); CONSTRUCTION (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



935 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Raising Tax On Income Is Rejected By Oregon 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: SALEM, Ore., Jan. 29 

 BODY:
The elderly and the disabled are among those bracing for the effects of state budget cuts after Oregon voters rejected an increase in the income tax. 
 State troops will also be affected, with plans calling for 129 positions to be cut. A $95 million reduction in school aid is also planned. 
 The proposed tax increase, which lawmakers said would have spared the state from having to make $310 million in spending cuts in its $11 billion two-year budget, was rejected on Tuesday.
The state cut $700 million from the budget last year, and lawmakers had failed in five special sessions to resolve differences over remaining cuts or offsetting tax increases.
Polls had shown voters closely divided over the proposed increase, Measure 28, but with 87 percent of the votes counted it was failing by a decisive margin, 55 percent to 45 percent. The proposal called for raising the income tax for most residents by 5 percent over three years.
The budget cuts call for reductions in assistance to thousands of low-income elderly people and the disabled, as well as cuts in treatment at community mental health centers. Some cuts are to take effect as early as Saturday, unless state legislators seek ways to prevent them.
In one of the first cost-saving measures to follow the defeat of the proposed tax increase, a wave of inmates were released from Multnomah County Jail today.
"It's a party atmosphere at the jail today," Sheriff Bernie Giusto of Multnomah County said as he announced the release of 31 inmates -- among 114 scheduled to be freed during the day. Some had been in jail pending trial. Others were serving time for crimes ranging from assault to drug manufacturing to sex abuse.
When it became apparent the tax measure would fail, some lawmakers raised the possibility that they would try to soften the impact of the cuts on the most vulnerable people.
"Oregonians have spoken, but I don't think they voted tonight to put seniors out on the streets," said Tim Knopp, the House majority leader, a Republican.
In the last three decades, Oregon voters have rejected more than a dozen proposals to raise taxes on income, gasoline and sales.
Oregon has had the nation's highest unemployment rate for much of the past year because of the downturn in the high-tech sector of the economy. In December, the state's unemployment rate was 7 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGETS (92%); TAX INCREASES (91%); BUDGET CUTS (91%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AGING (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (67%); MENTAL HEALTH (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALEM, OR, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



936 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
WorldCom Report Adds to the Size Of Its Sales Drop

BYLINE:  By SETH SCHIESEL

 BODY:
Sales at five important divisions of WorldCom, the troubled long-distance communications carrier, withered far faster in the second half of 2002 than the company has publicly reported, according to an internal WorldCom document.
 While the overall telecommunications market has suffered along with the national economy, sales appear to have shrunk even faster at WorldCom. The document, a spreadsheet, indicates that the company's new business with major corporations and government agencies plummeted after WorldCom disclosed a major accounting scandal last June and filed for bankruptcy protection the following month. 
 At a WorldCom sales division that serves the United States units of multinational corporations, for example, the monthly value of so-called net installations -- a measure of new business minus canceled services -- added up to $21.8 million in the second quarter but had fallen to $4.2 million by the fourth quarter, an 81 percent decline. 
Numbers for the other sales divisions in the document also reflected big declines. The total net installations figure for those divisions fell to $11.6 million in the fourth quarter from $45.9 million in the second.
The spreadsheet does not include sales data for the company's MCI consumer unit and for some other business-services divisions, including the unit that serves small and medium-size businesses.
Still, the data, far more detailed than anything the company has publicly reported since it filed for bankruptcy protection, underscore the difficulties facing Michael D. Capellas, the former computer executive who took over as WorldCom's chairman and chief executive in December. 
The spreadsheet does not track overall revenue for the five divisions. Rather, it tracks the monthly value of new business at each division throughout 2002, as reported by sales executives. By that measure, the spreadsheet shows that the new business in WorldCom's revenue pipeline has dwindled considerably -- with negative implications for revenue in the coming months. 
According to the spreadsheet, for example, in last year's second quarter, the five divisions generated net new business that would be worth an estimated $551 million over the next 12 months. By the fourth quarter, the estimated 12-month value of new business had fallen to $139 million. 
The document was provided to The New York Times and some other media outlets by Mitch Marcus, a former account manager for WorldCom business customers in Florida. Mr. Marcus, who operates a Web site called boycottworldcom.com, said that a WorldCom employee had sent the document to him unsolicited. 
Brad Burns, a WorldCom spokesman verified the authenticity of the spreadsheet, but played down its significance. Mr. Burns said that the document included figures that had been compiled directly from sales executives in the field but that had not been verified by the company's finance department.
"It is certainly not something that we run the business with," Mr. Burns said.
But an industry analyst who reviewed the spreadsheet at the request of The Times said the data shed new light on the extent of WorldCom's business problems.
"Our review of these sales results demonstrates how significant the challenge is for Michael Capellas and his team as they work to restore Worldcom's customer relationships and grow revenues from the largest enterprise, government and computer-service customers," said Berge Ayvazian, senior research fellow at the Yankee Group, a communications research firm in Boston. 
"It is clear that Worldcom's revenue pipeline is shrinking from these segments," Mr. Ayvazian said. "The sales divisions here represent the strategic growth opportunities for WorldCom in the business market, which is vital to the company's financial health."
Besides customer queasiness about dealing with WorldCom while it is in bankruptcy, the declines could also be explained in part by the company's focus since last summer on cost-cutting and on retaining existing customers rather than aggressively signing up new ones.
WorldCom's publicly released figures show that revenue has declined since the bankruptcy filing last July. But because the company has filed no formal quarterly reports since the first quarter of last year, a clear picture of its operations has been hard for investors to discern. 
Since the scandal erupted, the company has filed reports for each month showing only selected data, including revenue and net losses. Yesterday, WorldCom released its report for November, showing that overall revenue declined to $2.2 billion, from $2.3 billion in October. The net loss in November from continuing operations was $194 million, down from $205 million in October. (The company also said that it would probably write off a substantial portion of the $32 billion in property and equipment on its balance sheet.)
In some ways, however, the sales spreadsheet disclosed by Mr. Marcus might give a better indication of what is to come for the company. It reflects a sharp drop in the acquisition of new contracts even as cancellations remained fairly constant. 
Each of the five divisions in the spreadsheet follows a similar pattern. The second quarter is better than the first. The third quarter, which began days after the company disclosed its problems on June 25, drops off significantly. The fourth quarter is even worse.
For the unit known as corporate accounts, which serves large businesses based in the United States, net installations were $14.2 million in the second quarter, according to the report, but only $3.7 million in the fourth quarter.
In the unit known as investments, which are big companies that WorldCom is trying to cultivate as customers, net installations fell to $606,000 in the fourth quarter, from $2.4 million in the second.
In the outsourcers division, which represents systems integrators that resell WorldCom's services, net installations fell to $532,000 in the fourth quarter, down from $2.1 million in the second.
In the unit that serves government agencies, net installations were $2.6 million in the fourth quarter, compared with $5.4 million in the second.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Deteriorating Prospects"Judging by net monthly gains in new business at five key WorldCom sales divisions, the company's ability to attract new business fell sharply after WorldCom filed for bankruptcy. Graph tracks net monthly value of new business, measured in millions, from January 2002 to December 2002. June: Disclosed accounting problemsJuly: Filed for bankruptcy protection August not available. (Source: Company document) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (90%); SALES MANAGEMENT (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); ACCOUNTING (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); SCANDALS (56%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: MICHAEL CAPELLAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



937 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: THE GOVERNOR'S BUDGET PLAN: SCHOOL AID; 
Wide-Ranging Plan Cuts Education at All Levels

BYLINE:  By GREG WINTER

 BODY:
Teachers, school boards, superintendents and state officials vowed yesterday to fight Gov. George E. Pataki's proposal to decrease education spending, arguing that the cutbacks could not come at a worse time. 
 Grappling with their own local shortfalls this year, often to the tune of tens of millions of dollars, school administrators warned that additional cuts would simply transfer the burden from the state to individual taxpayers, a shift that would very likely hurt poor areas the most. 
 "There's just no way that school districts can absorb this," said Thomas Rogers, executive director of the New York State Council of School Superintendents, adding that the most likely outcome of the governor's budget, if it survives intact, would be "gigantic" increases in class size. "It would set our education system back years," he said. 
Under the governor's proposal, state aid to elementary and secondary schools would drop $1.24 billion, or 8.5 percent, to $13.4 billion in the coming fiscal year, halting the steady increases that have characterized New York's education spending since the mid-1990's. 
The decrease would be the largest in decades, surpassing the cuts made during the recession of the early 1990's. But even if the cuts are passed in their entirety, the state's education budget under Governor Pataki will still have increased by $3.6 billion since 1994, a growth rate far higher than inflation. 
Spending on the state's public universities would also shrink under the governor's budget. Support for the State University of New York would drop $183.5 million, or 15 percent, to a little more than $1 billion, while the four-year institutions of the City University of New York would receive $81.7 million less, a 12 percent decline, for a total of $581.4 million. 
Nor would community colleges be exempt. State-supported campuses would receive $345 less per student, a decrease of 15 percent. 
To offset these cuts to higher education, the budget plan authorizes tuition increases at SUNY and CUNY that could exceed $1,000 a year.
"The last thing I want to do is reduce spending on education," Mr. Pataki said in announcing his budget proposal. "However, the crisis is that bad. We have no choice." 
Mr. Pataki's rationale for the cuts was clear. With the current slowdown and the economic damage of the terrorist attack of Sept. 11, 2001, the state faces an $11.5 billion budget gap over two years.
Rather than raising taxes -- an option the governor said he wanted to take "off the table on Day 1" of the budget process -- he described the education cuts as necessary sacrifices, though "clearly the most difficult decisions facing us." 
If the governor has his way, only part of the loss of aid to local districts will be shouldered by local taxpayers, despite the warnings of school boards and superintendents. 
Concerned that local school taxes climbed even during flush times, when the state's investment in education rose, Mr. Pataki's budget would impose a cap on spending increases by school districts. The governor has proposed the idea in the past but it has gained little ground. 
How heavily school districts would lean on property taxes to make up for budget cuts is not entirely clear.
In a survey last week, the State School Boards Association asked members how they planned to pay for rising health costs, teacher salaries and other expenses, assuming that state aid to education remained unchanged from this year's levels. 
Of the 391 that responded, 86 percent said they would be forced to cut programs. The districts said they would also push for property tax increases averaging 13 percent. Now that cuts have entered the equation, the association says the numbers will probably be higher. 
"Painful and educationally ill-advised though they may be, these are some of the only options open to us," said David Ernst, the association's research director.
Though the governor's spending cuts would not take effect until the next fiscal year, which starts in July, some districts are already making cutbacks. To close a $28 million budget deficit last October, Buffalo's school district eliminated 300 jobs and closed five buildings. 
Since last January, New York City has cut $650 million to $680 million from its education budget and laid off 1,100 people -- though the trimming, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said, had not "hurt the classroom."
"It is cutting out programs and people that we just cannot afford," Mayor Bloomberg said this week, before learning that the governor's budget would decrease education aid to New York City by $448.5 million, or 8.2 percent.
Though some wealthier districts said the governor's cuts would not cause significant pain, the State Board of Regents opposed them, promising to "argue strongly" that the state must "meet the critical educational needs of children and adults through these difficult times." 
Last month, the Regents proposed a $516 million increase in school spending, despite the troubled economy, in hopes of helping students pass the increasingly rigorous tests that the state requires of them. 
That plea for more money, as well as the Regents' frustration over the proposed cuts, was echoed by the United Federation of Teachers.
"New York State must keep its promises to kids, and we're going to fight fiercely to see that it does," said Randi Weingarten, the union's president.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky and Assemblywoman Amy Paulin discussed Gov. George E. Pataki's proposed budget in Albany yesterday. Education leaders said proposed cuts could increase class sizes. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION FUNDING (93%); GOVERNORS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (86%); TUITION FEES (79%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (79%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (79%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (79%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TERRORISM (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (55%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



938 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: THE GOVERNOR'S BUDGET PLAN: OVERVIEW; 
PATAKI SEEKS CUTS IN AID TO SCHOOLS AND HEALTH CARE

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki, facing the worst financial crisis in New York since the Great Depression, proposed a budget plan today that would reduce overall spending, deeply cut state aid to schools and sharply curb the money the government spends on health care.
 If passed by the State Legislature, the budget would reduce the aid districts rely on to operate schools, limit money for special education and cut assistance for school construction. It would also freeze reimbursements to hospitals and nursing homes for care of patients on Medicaid and make it a little harder for some New Yorkers to qualify for Medicaid coverage. 
 The plan would also leave a fiscally devastated New York City reeling, cutting its school aid by $450 million and providing hundreds of millions of dollars less than what Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the governor's fellow Republican, had counted on in his city budget proposal on Tuesday. 
It was exactly the kind of pain-inducing budget that many had predicted. It also drew the kind of response that many would expect: widespread dissatisfaction, even from members of the governor's own party and even from fiscal conservatives, who detected in it remnants of the fiscal gimmickry they had been criticizing for years.
Mr. Pataki acknowledged the cuts' effects, but said anemic tax collections and a lingering national recession that was worsened by the Sept. 11 attack left him little choice.
"These are the difficult decisions we have to make, decisions that will result in less funding to worthwhile programs that we all support," Mr. Pataki said in a 33-minute speech.
"We can either cut these programs today and allow for the growth that will fuel them tomorrow," he said, "or subject New Yorkers to job losses and a fiscal crisis for years to come."
In laying out the details of his proposal, Mr. Pataki said he would shrink the budget, minimally, from $90.9 billion this year to an anticipated $90.8 billion in the next fiscal year, which begins on April 1. He placed the budget gap at $11.5 billion -- $2.2 billion for this year, and $9.3 billion for next year -- making this his biggest fiscal crisis since taking office in 1995.
He repeatedly characterized the debate over how to close the gap as a choice between increases in "job-killing taxes" and tax cuts intended to stimulate the economy.
He called for bipartisan cooperation, at times looking at the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican, and the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Democrat.
But his Democratic opponents in the State Assembly wasted no time in criticizing the characterization of the choices he laid out, calling it an oversimplification. Mr. Silver said the proposal dissolved any hope of partnership. Mr. Bruno said he liked the governor's antitax stance but would explore alternatives to the cuts.
Others piled on, trying to get their say in a debate likely to last several months as the Legislature and the governor press for a budget that Democrats and Republicans and their constituents can all live with.
Advocates for New York City bemoaned what little recurring aid the state budget afforded the city. Lobbyists said the cuts would hurt college students, prekindergartners, hospitals, nursing homes and clinics, among others. Some independent budget analysts laced into the plan's reliance on billions of dollars' worth of one-time revenue sources rather than on reliable streams of money that recur perennially. Fiscal conservatives said the Medicaid system had not been trimmed enough.
Senator Nicholas A. Spano, a Republican from Westchester County, agreed that the cuts were deep, but questioned what the Democrats proposed as an alternative.
"The challenge here for those who want to be critical of the governor's program is to say where they're going to get the money from," he said.
Democrats said they feared that was a trap the governor had set for them.
"He's setting up a situation where he knows the Legislature is going to have to come in and raise taxes," Senator Eric T. Schneiderman of Manhattan said.
Vociferous budget battles are occurring in nearly every state this year. California, the only state with a budget larger than New York's, is facing a deficit of $35 billion over the next 18 months. Connecticut, Arkansas and other states with Republican governors are calling for tax increases to close huge gaps.
Mr. Pataki, staying true to his word, did not propose raising broad-based taxes, like income taxes. The plan, in fact, would cut some taxes further, including those for some low-income New Yorkers, small-business owners, those who invest in "green" buildings and other environmentally friendly causes, and even buyers of historic homes. The tax on beer would be reduced, as well.
But the plan also includes $1.4 billion worth of fee increases, surcharges and other revenue raisers to be imposed on businesses and individuals. Among them is a proposal to eliminate the state sales tax exemption on all clothing under $110, which is expected to add $400 million in new sales tax revenue next year. The governor also proposed a one-year freeze on payments from the STAR property tax relief program, except for the elderly. Many called those tax increases of sorts.
Even conservatives called the higher fees tax increases in disguise.
"He has a budget that is much more heavily reliant on gimmicks and really does have tax increases included in it," said E. J. McMahon, a Manhattan Institute analyst.
Others noted that in all his talk about job-killing tax increases, the governor never said he would veto any broad-based tax increases the Legislature chooses to pass. 
On the spending side, the proposal calls for an 8.5 percent cut in state aid to school districts, a loss of $1.2 billion. Medicaid costs would be cut by forcing hospitals to absorb rising costs, freezing state reimbursements to pharmacists and changing the way the state administers prescription drug benefits, forcing doctors to prescribe less expensive drugs. The proposal also raises the income level at which families qualify for Medicaid coverage.
Overall Medicaid spending would increase by $1.3 billion in the state, though the governor's cuts amount to $1.2 billion.
The governor is also proposing reinstating a tax on hospital revenue that hospital administrators say will cost them more than $228 million a year and could, along with cuts to Medicaid reimbursements of another $317 million, lead to layoffs of hospital workers.
Mr. Pataki also called for the elimination of 5,000 state jobs through attrition and early retirement incentives, avoiding layoffs, at least for now. The state's Education Department alone would lose 1,735 jobs under the plan. Over all, officials said, the state work force would shrink by 10,000 jobs from what it was in November 2001, reaching 186,000, the lowest number in 20 years. 
On the revenue side, Mr. Pataki said he would borrow more than $4 billion backed by the annual payment the state receives from the tobacco companies as part of a court settlement. He said $1.5 billion would help fill this year's gap while $2.3 billion would be used next year and $400 million in the following year.
Many called that a reliance on a one-time revenue that could open a hole in the next year's budget. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LEDGER: Balancing the State Budget"Gov. George E. Pataki yesterday announced a proposed budget of $90.8 billion, with a combined shortfall of $11.5 billion for this year and next. Gap-Closing Proposalsin billions FISCAL YEAR 2003, WHICH ENDS MARCH 30 -- $2.2Borrowed against tobacco settlement funds. -- 1.5State agency cuts, savings from hiring freeze and accelerated early retirements, refinancing of some state debt, federal reimbursement for some expenses and miscellaneous. -- 0.7 FISCAL YEAR 2004, WHICH BEGINS APRIL 1 -- $9.3Cuts and staff savings from state agencies. -- $1.0Shifts of welfare costs to the federal government. -- 0.6Refinancing some debt. -- 0.5Cuts to Medicaid and other health care programs. -- 1.0Reducing state aid to school districts. -- 1.2Restricting Tuition Assistance Program funds. -- 0.6Borrowed against tobacco settlement funds. -- 2.3Increases in some taxes and fees. -- 1.4Miscellaneous savings. -- 0.7 Some ExamplesThe proposal does not call for broad tax increases, but counts on: Increasing tuition by 35 percent, or by $1,200, for State University of New York undergraduate students. Eliminating the sales tax exemption on clothes and footwear costing less than $110 and replacing it with four one-week exemption periods for clothes and footwear that costs less than $500. Doubling boat registration fees to $18 to $60 per boat (from $9 to $30). Reimposing a temporary 0.7% assessment on hospital revenues, and a 0.6% assessment on home care services. Increasing Department of Motor Vehicles fee to $10 from $5 for a registration; to $5 from $1 for a certificate of sale; to $5 from $3 for a photo I.D.; to $15 from $5.50 for license plates. Capping school tax relief benefits (STAR) for homeowners who are not senior citizens at current levels for one year. Closing a loophole that allows certain businesses to deduct up to $24,000 when they purchase very large S.U.V.'s. Changing the insurance tax to a 2 percent tax on premiums. (Source: New York State Executive Budget)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNORS (91%); EDUCATION FUNDING (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); NURSING HOMES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (72%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



939 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Flat as Investors Assess Bush Speech and Fed Stand

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
Stocks ended basically flat yesterday after an anticlimactic session in which traders found little news in either the president's State of the Union address the night before or the Federal Reserve's latest statement on the economy.
 After falling in the first few minutes of trading, the main market gauges turned higher by midday, then gave back some of those gains in the last hour of trading. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.6 percent while the Nasdaq composite index climbed 1.2 percent. 
 Over all, the S.& P. 500 gained 5.82 points, to 864.36, and the Nasdaq rose 15.88 points, to 1,358.06. The Dow Jones industrial average had the weakest performance of the major indexes, edging up 21.87 points, or 0.3 percent, to 8,110.71. 
With many investors and traders viewing war with Iraq as all but inevitable in the wake of the aggressive tone of President Bush's State of the Union address, oil and oil stocks led the market higher. Crude oil for March delivery rose 96 cents, to $33.63 a barrel, while Exxon Mobil rose $1.19, or 3.7 percent, to $33.65, and ChevronTexaco gained $2.35, or 3.7 percent, to $65.30.
But Wall Street strategists and money managers said the move toward military action was not necessarily negative for stocks. If war is coming, Wall Street would prefer that it come sooner instead of later, they said.
"The feeling is that you're getting close to removing the uncertainty of an Iraq invasion, an Iraq attack," said Chuck Lewis, the research director for Belfinance Securities in New York. "People are getting a little more positive, after listening to the president last night, that we are going to go to war."
After Mr. Bush's speech, "the market expects a resolution within weeks instead of months," said Harvey Hirschhorn, the head of asset allocation and strategy for the Columbia Management Group, which manages $150 billion, including more than $50 billion in stocks.
War could be bad for the market and the economy if it leads to widespread destruction of oil fields in Iraq or Saudi Arabia or a catastrophic terrorist attack, Mr. Hirschhorn said. But Saddam Hussein's ouster could also be relatively smooth and quick, with light casualties and minimal damage. If so, stocks could move sharply higher. But it is impossible to know what will happen until the war actually begins, and investors hate uncertainty even more than they fear the potential negatives, Mr. Hirschhorn said.
New business investments, a stronger economy and rising stock prices "are on the back burner until investors and consumers and international players have a higher degree of clarity as to the direction of the geopolitical situation and economic developments," he said. 
The Fed added slightly to investors' optimism. In choosing to keep short-term interest rates unchanged at 1.25 percent, their lowest level in more than 40 years, the Fed's policy makers acknowledged that "oil price premiums and other aspects of geopolitical risks have reportedly fostered continued restraint on spending and hiring by businesses." But the Fed said it expected that productivity growth and low rates "will provide support to an improving economic climate over time."
Besides oil stocks, technology and drug companies were among the day's best performers. Microsoft rose $1.09, or 2.2 percent, to $49.91, and Intel rose 63 cents, or 4 percent, to $16.66. 
In the Treasury market, bond prices fell, in large part because of the Fed's decision. The price of the 10-year note fell 14/32, to 99 26/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.02 percent from 3.97 percent. The 30-year bond fell 20/32, to 107 2/32. Its yield rose to 4.91 percent from 4.87 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of a two-year note:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

High Price: 99.834
High Yield: 1.710%
Low Yield: 1.600%
Median Yield: 1.670%
Accepted at low price: 65%
Total applied for: $46,750,432
Accepted: $33,834,307
Noncompetitive: $881,749
Interest set at: 1 5/8

The two-year notes mature Jan. 31, 2005.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Freddie Mac Yields"Average for Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. participation certificates, plotted weekly. Graph tracks average yields for 15 and 30-year mortgages from October 2002 to January 2003. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.) Chart: "2-Year Treasury Notes"High yields in percent. Graph tracks yields from 2001 through 2003. (Source: Treasury Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); BOND MARKETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); TERRORISM (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%); CHEVRON CORP (55%); COLUMBIA MANAGEMENT CO (52%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (55%); CVX (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (68%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



940 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: WOMEN'S ATHLETICS; 
Title IX Panel Favors Lifting Antitrust Laws

BYLINE:  By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
A panel examining Title IX, the law that expanded opportunities in sports for a generation of female students, is urging the secretary of education to support exempting college athletics from federal antitrust laws as a way of reducing expenses and the pressure to eliminate men's teams.
 While the recommendation does not directly address the panel's central charge -- to evaluate whether enforcement of Title IX unfairly penalizes men's sports -- it was seen as a bid to ease the financial strains on universities that juggle the demand for sports within limited budgets. 
 The Commission on Opportunity in Athletics enters the decisive stage of its work here Thursday. There were signs that the panel -- which has come under fire from women's rights and civil rights groups -- would not make a single set of recommendations to the education secretary, Rod Paige, but would present him with a range of competing, even conflicting, ideas for altering the enforcement of Title IX. 
Under discussion Thursday will be eight formulas for judging whether colleges and universities are satisfying Title IX under a common standard known as proportionality, in which schools show that the number of female athletes matches their share of student enrollment. The proposals would all relax the proportionality standard to varying degrees, with the most forgiving allowing campuses to meet the law if women represented 43 percent of the players on sports teams.
"There's a feeling among many that we want to give the secretary of education ideas and options," Ted Leland, the Stanford University athletic director, who is co-chairman of the commission, said tonight. "If we present five or six ways on to him for him to think about, I think we'd be doing our job. I don't think our job is to paint anyone in a corner."
Title IX has come under criticism from athletic directors and others who say they have been forced to cut men's teams to satisfy demands for equal access to sports for boys and girls. Rights groups, however, blame economics and shifting fashions in sports for the drop-off in men's wrestling and gymnastics and other men's sports. They are urging the panel to leave Title IX alone.
In its 12-to-1 vote on the antitrust laws this afternoon, the commissioners urged the education secretary to support an "antitrust exemption for college athletics."
Graham Spanier, the president of Penn State, described antitrust laws as "a very important barrier to cost containment" in college athletics programs.
But Thomas B. Griffith, the general counsel at Brigham Young University and lone dissenter, said he did not think it fitting that the education secretary should "request an antitrust exemption on behalf of the N.C.A.A."
Under the law, schools have three options for showing they are following Title IX. Aside from the proportionality standard, they may also show that they are making steady progress toward expanding opportunities for women to play sports, or that they are "fully and effectively" meeting the interest for playing sports among women at the high school and college level.
The 15-member panel, 10 of whose members hail from N.C.A.A. Division I-A institutions, foreshadowed its intention to punt on some difficult issues in its final votes today, involving competing proposals over private endowments for men's sports.
One proposal calls upon the Department of Education to advise schools on accepting donations for men's sports without running afoul of Title IX, while the other urges the department to "re-examine its regulations" on private donations to sports teams.
The panel rejected, 8 to 6, a proposal to eliminate the requirement that colleges report participation by women in sports, which has opened them to scrutiny and criticism.
Spanier derided the disclosures as "a prime example of a wasteful and time-consuming report." He said the information, once reported, was never used.
His position was supported by Gerald Reynolds, who heads the Education Department's Office of Civil Rights. He said the reports have "been used in ways that haven't been helpful."
But Julie Foudy, captain of the United States national women's soccer team and president of the Women's Sports Foundation, countered that there was no way for Spanier to know how many people may have looked up the information on the Education Department's Web site.
Under an alternative, the panel will recommend that schools choose from the three possible methods to show their compliance with Title IX, and then report supporting information under that standard alone.
Women's groups held a lunchtime demonstration critical of the commission, saying that the alternative formulas would essentially freeze women's participation at its current levels. While women account for 56 percent of students in higher education, their presence on sports teams stands at 42 percent.
Eleanor Smeal, president of Feminist Majority, called the commission's work the opening salvo in a broader attack on women's access to traditionally male professions, like law and medicine, that were opened by Title IX. "This is not about sports," she said. "This is about jobs."
Kay Hoflander, a former basketball player and mother whose son is training to be an Olympic swimmer, disagreed. Hoflander, who found no college where she could play basketball in the 1960's, before Title IX became law, said she now worried that her son, a high school senior in Higginsville, Mo., would have trouble finding a college with a strong swimming team because the law had gone too far. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WOMEN (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (74%); WRESTLING (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



941 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Hardware: Gateway Reports Loss As Revenue Drops 

BYLINE:  Reuters

 BODY:
 Gateway Inc. yesterday reported its eighth quarterly loss in nine quarters as the company, a maker of personal computers, was hurt by stiff competition, a weak economy and slack technology demand. Gateway, based in Poway, Calif., reported a loss of $72 million, or 22 cents a share, in the fourth quarter, in contrast to net income of $9.4 million, or 3 cents a share, a year earlier. 
Revenue fell to $1.06 billion from $1.14 billion. Analysts had forecast a loss of 19 cents a share on revenue of $1.06 billion, according to Multex. Gateway also said it had received a "Wells notice" from the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to its previously disclosed S.E.C. investigation, which Gateway believes relates to matters from fiscal 2000. A Wells notice gives a company time to mount a defense against a potential action from the S.E.C. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); COMPANY REVENUES (88%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: GATEWAY INC (98%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



942 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: THE GOVERNOR'S BUDGET PLAN: ASSESSMENT; 
Facing The Music As Times Stay Hard

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
After two years of letting spending rise and hoping in vain that the economy would turn around, Gov. George E. Pataki and legislators faced their day of reckoning today, and it was not pretty.
 The Republican governor, saying he would not raise taxes to bail the state out of its fiscal predicament, presented a $90 billion budget with deep cuts to schools, state colleges, hospitals and health care programs. 
 Mr. Pataki's proposal is a far cry from the one he made a year ago when he was running for re-election. His election-year budget averted unpopular cuts by spending virtually all the state's savings and reserves. It provided hundreds of millions of dollars to pay for raises of health care workers and New York City teachers, securing in return the endorsements of two powerful labor unions for the governor. 
Those luxurious days are over, Mr. Pataki said today. Laying out his plan, he urged lawmakers to demonstrate the "courage, leadership and honesty" necessary to prune the ever-growing state budget, qualities that, some critics say, neither he nor lawmakers evinced last year with an election looming.
"I don't want to reduce spending for these programs," he said. "None of us do, but none of us were elected to just make easy decisions."
The governor tried hard to lay the blame for the state's budget deficit, a whopping $11.5 billion for this year and next, on the terrorist attacks in September 2001 and their ripple effect on the national economy.
In his speech, he ignored his own role in letting state spending rise well above the inflation rate over the last three years, as the stock market declined and the economy staggered: "Today's enormous deficit was caused by events beyond our control." 
The deficit Mr. Pataki is wrestling with today, however, has been years in the making. After holding down spending during his first two years, he has presided over a 33 percent increase in spending since 1997. In the last three years, while the stock market plummeted, Mr. Pataki and the Legislature continued to add to state spending at three times the rate of inflation.
Last May, seven months after Sept. 11, Mr. Pataki and legislative leaders agreed to a budget that increased spending by 5 percent, even though the economy was stagnant.
Throughout the election, the governor insisted his budget would hold together, despite signs that the falling incomes on Wall Street would devastate revenues. He deflected questions about his budget's soundness with sunny optimism, saying he had solved a budget shortfall in 1995 and could do so again.
After the election, he admitted in December that a $2 billion hole had opened up. In January he called the deficit a historic crisis and said it would reach $10 billion next year. Today, he finally aired the bad news.
Mr. Pataki had barely walked off the podium before a howl of protest went up from Democrats, who said he was balancing the budget on the backs of students and poor people. Many Democrats assailed his pro-business stance against any new taxes on the wealthy or corporations, accusing him of protecting the rich, while cutting aid to schools by $1.2 billion and severely reducing Medicaid benefits. They predicted local school taxes would skyrocket to cover the loss of state aid.
"There is no equity, no principle on which the pain is shared, except to say the closer you live to Park Avenue the better off you are going to be," said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky of Westchester County.
The budget seemed to rattle many lawmakers and send them running for cover. Most were unwilling to say they would support raising taxes, but were also unwilling to swallow the cuts Mr. Pataki proposed.
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, who helped pass this year's budget despite its unrealistic revenue estimates, accused the governor of misleading the public. "The governor spoke of having courage," he said. "He should have had the courage to tell New Yorkers during his campaign for governor about the taxes and fees that he would increase and the programs he would cut."
The leader of the Republican majority in the Senate, Joseph L. Bruno, meanwhile, questioned some of the cuts and said that the state should sell off assets before it raises taxes.
Budget analysts say the the deficit would have been smaller had the governor and legislative leaders acted sooner to restrain spending.
"They have been on a spending binge for the last four years," said Diana Fortuna, president of the Citizens Budget Commission. "The state's been slow to come to the table to address the problem." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); HEALTH CARE (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); TERRORISM (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



943 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Adding to Claims Against Global Crossing

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
Senior executives at Global Crossing began efforts to disguise the company's financial difficulties months earlier than previously disclosed, giving them more time to sell their shares, according to a securities lawsuit filed this week.
 The lawsuit, which consolidates several class-action complaints on behalf of investors who lost billions of dollars on Global Crossing stock and bonds, names as defendants more than 20 executives and directors, including Gary Winnick, who resigned as Global Crossing's chairman last month. The suit was filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan. 
 The claims go beyond previous disclosures of the frenzied atmosphere at Global Crossing before its financial collapse early last year, and they set the stage for a legal battle expected to take years. The suit also names as defendants several investment banks -- including Salomon Smith Barney, part of Citigroup -- that raised money for Global Crossing and recommended its securities to their clients. 
John C. Coffee Jr., an expert in securities law and a professor at Columbia University Law School, said damages in the case could reach into the billions of dollars, potentially raising the bar for awards in corporate securities fraud complaints.
Defendants disputed the claims yesterday.
Terry Christensen, a lawyer for Mr. Winnick, said, "All that has happened is that pursuant to an order of the court, the various allegations in 70 different complaints have been consolidated into a single complaint." 
Mary Ellen Hillery, a spokeswoman for Salomon Smith Barney, said, "We are familiar with the allegations and believe them to be without merit." Lawyers at Debevoise & Plimpton are representing other defendants; they were not available for comment.
According to dozens of former employees interviewed by the lawyers who filed the lawsuit, Global Crossing, which spent an estimated $15 billion to build an international fiber optic network, came under financial pressure in early 2000 because it had lost numerous customers. It soon became dependent on swaps of nearly useless communications capacity, those employees say. 
"Global Crossing was a creation that was established to mislead its own investors," said Jay W. Eisenhofer of Grant & Eisenhofer, the law firm representing the lead plaintiffs in securities fraud complaints against Global Crossing. 
If Global Crossing was, as the lawsuit contends, frantically trying to save its business in mid-2000, that would suggest that the wider crisis in the telecommunications industry caused by an oversupply of fiber optic capacity became more severe earlier than commonly acknowledged.
Some information in the complaint has already been made public, like a memorandum written on June 5, 2000, by Leo J. Hindery Jr., who was Global Crossing's chief executive at the time, to a handful of directors. In it, he said, "The stock market can be fooled, but not forever, and it is fundamentally insightful and always unforgiving of being misled."
By the fall of 2000, according to the lawsuit, Global Crossing was regularly using swap transactions, which had little purpose other than to increase revenue at the end of each financial quarter. Mr. Eisenhofer said Global Crossing's executives acknowledged the swap transactions after the bankruptcy filing when the company filed a document to adjust revenue for 2000 by more than $230 million.
The lawsuit describes a deal with Lucent Technologies in early 2000 in which Lucent, a communications equipment company, wired money for a deal to Global Crossing's Beverly Hills, Calif., office instead of its Bermuda headquarters.
According to Deborah Maust, a former employee of Global Crossing's treasury department who was interviewed by lawyers putting the lawsuit together, she and her colleagues became suspicious because Lucent had wired Global Crossing the exact amount of money that the Global Crossing office in Beverly Hills office had wired to Lucent earlier the same day.
A Lucent spokeswoman, Mary Lou Ambrus, said the transactions had involved real and separate contracts for different amounts related to network equipment and telecommunications services.
"These were not swaps," she said.
According to the lawsuit, several employees, including Susan Dullabh, Global Crossing's treasurer in Beverly Hills, questioned Dan J. Cohrs, the chief financial officer, about the Lucent deal and were told by Mr. Cohrs that it was "none of their business."
Mr. Cohrs and Joseph Perrone, Global Crossing's executive vice president for finance, are among the executives named as defendants in the complaint who are still with the company. A spokeswoman for Global Crossing, Tisha Kresler, said yesterday that the company would not comment on the complaint because it involved continuing litigation. 
Among the other claims in the lawsuit is that Mr. Winnick made more than $860 million from selling the company's stock, or at least $100 million more than previously disclosed. A spokeswoman for Mr. Winnick, Marcia Horowitz, declined to comment. 
The complaint is one of several challenges faced by Global Crossing as it seeks to re-establish itself as a viable concern. Two Asian communications companies have agreed to buy Global Crossing out of bankruptcy but have not completed the acquisition. Global Crossing is also dealing with an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission and a difficult market for the sale of communications services.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Leo J. Hindery Jr. wrote a memorandum warning some Global Crossing directors on June 5, 2000. (Monika Graff); Gary Winnick resigned last month as chairman of Global Crossing, which has filed for bankruptcy. (Alex Wong/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (94%); LITIGATION (92%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); LAWYERS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); CLASS ACTIONS (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); FIBER OPTICS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); DEBEVOISE & PLIMPTON LLP (83%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



944 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: What the World Hears When the President Speaks; 
Calming Fears

BYLINE:  By Bill Emmott; Bill Emmott, editor in chief of The Economist magazine, is author of the forthcoming "20:21 Vision: 20th Century Lessons for the 21st Century."

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Before President Bush's State of the Union address, worry about war and suspicion of America were the prevailing views in the outside world. After his address, worry and suspicion still prevail. But there is now hope that the suspicion, at least, could soon ease. 
 Don't misunderstand. I have long supported America's effort to enforce the United Nations resolutions calling on Saddam Hussein to disarm, and have felt that only under an ever-nearing threat of war was there any chance that this might be achieved, peacefully or otherwise. Few of my fellow Europeans (and surprisingly few Britons) have felt the same. 
 Every time they have seen Mr. Bush speaking informally about this issue, their fears and suspicions have grown. However, every time they have seen him make a big, formal speech (as at the United Nations in September and before Congress on Tuesday) they have felt reassured.
This time, the reassurance did not come from his deliberately reassuring gestures, such as the promise to put up $15 billion to combat H.I.V. and AIDS in Africa and the Caribbean or the $1.2 billion for research into pollution-free cars. It came from his announcement that on Feb. 5 Secretary of State Colin Powell would reveal evidence of Iraq's weapons concealment to the Security Council.
It was reassuring because it suggests that some proof exists. Admittedly, the lust for evidence represents a sort of mass self-delusion, a belief that somehow the 1990's didn't happen and that no weapons programs were found then. It also represents topsy-turvy thinking: that the burden of proof is on Mr. Bush, not Saddam Hussein. Still, such thinking is a reality that the White House needs to face.
Such evidence is not needed on technical, moral or legal grounds. But it is needed to secure a broad coalition, which in turn is highly desirable if the risks of war -- and an unstable aftermath of war -- are to be reduced. At least from this vantage point in London, the recent opposition to war heard from France and Russia looks shallow. Some credible, publicly usable evidence is all that is needed for them to be able to back a second United Nations resolution and even to offer military support.
Following President Bush's address, therefore, an extremely favorable situation looks to be within America's grasp -- a broad coalition and a second resolution, both just at the time when the military buildup is reaching its peak. Saddam Hussein, no doubt, will have fresh delaying tactics up his sleeve, such as apparent, partial admissions or concessions about weapons programs with which he will hope to sow new divisions and confusion. The wider the coalition against him, and the shorter the time he has available, the lower will be his chances of success. 
The president's speech brought that prospect closer. Now Colin Powell must clinch it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); EMMOTT, BILL; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AFRICA (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



945 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Bait and Switch 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
President Bush has learned how to deliver a moving speech. But Tuesday night's State of the Union Message did not address the most important question facing the American people: What kind of nation are we becoming?
 The president spoke passionately about bringing "food and medicines and supplies and freedom" to the Iraqi people. But he is leading a hard-right administration here at home that is seriously eroding the economic security, the access to health care, the civil rights and civil liberties and the environmental protections of the American people. 
 The first part of the president's speech was crafted to create exactly the opposite impression. He promised an economy "that grows fast enough to employ every man and woman who seeks a job." He proposed a prescription drug benefit for some retirees. And he said he was ready to commit $1.2 billion to research into environmentally friendly hydrogen-powered automobiles.
But those were largely bait-and-switch proposals. Despite rising unemployment, the president's plan for the economy was simply a continuation of his tax-cut mania. There was nothing in the way of a job-creation program or a real economic stimulus. And there was absolutely zero help offered to the states and local governments whose budgetary knees are buckling under the weight of their worst fiscal crisis since World War II. 
The president's prescription drug benefit, tempting at first glance, is tied to a restructuring of Medicare that will curtail, not enhance, the delivery of health services to the elderly. It was designed to look like an act of compassion. It's not.
The hydrogen cars initiative was a particularly deft touch for a president who has been hammered for his environmental policies. Hydrogen-powered autos could make a difference in the long term, say 20 or 30 years from now, or more. But what is much more significant is that Mr. Bush has stood like a rock with the opponents of increased fuel efficiency for the cars we're driving right now. The payoff for immediately improving vehicle fuel economy would be huge. In addition to saving money for motorists, it would cut pollution, curtail our contribution to the greenhouse effect and reduce our dependence on foreign oil.
We heard nothing about that in the speech.
The Bush administration is changing the nation in fundamental ways. However one feels about a U.S.-led invasion of Iraq, over the long term a bullying, go-it-alone foreign policy wedded to a military doctrine of pre-emption is a recipe for destabilization and paranoia around the world.
And despite its professed commitment to compassionate policies at home, the administration's obsession with tax cuts is proving destructive on two fronts: It is draining the nation's coffers of money for social programs (including Medicare and Social Security), and blocking any real attempt to invest in a range of programs and infrastructure initiatives that are crucial to the nation's long-term future.
Some of those programs relate directly to domestic security.
These issues get short shrift in an atmosphere of imminent war. But I doubt that this is the kind of country most Americans want. And we are already beginning to pay the price. Local taxes are soaring and services are breaking down.
On the night of the president's speech, the governor of New Jersey, James McGreevey, announced that he would be cutting state aid to colleges and universities by 10 percent because of a $5 billion state budget gap. In Connecticut, nearly 3,000 state workers have been laid off and Gov. John Rowland said another 1,000 needed to go.
In some states the public school week is being curtailed. In some, prisoners are being furloughed.
These are telling indications of the real state of the union.
As the most powerful nation on earth, and the world's only superpower, the United States has a particular obligation to use its might wisely abroad and to distribute its benefits fairly at home.
That is not an easy mission for a hard-right-wing administration, which is why the Bush administration puts such a premium on the rhetoric of compassion.
Behind the veil of rhetoric is a Darwinian political philosophy that, if clearly understood, would repel the majority of Americans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (88%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (88%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (88%); TAX LAW (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX RELIEF (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); AGING (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); IRAQ WAR (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (71%); MEDICARE (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (67%); WORLD WAR II (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HERBERT, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



946 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: In Venezuelan Strike, a Shift Toward Talks 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez's government and his opponents are ready to discuss two proposals put forth by former President Jimmy Carter to end a devastating national strike, a mediator in the talks and government foes said today.
 The development is a shift for both sides, who had refused to entertain ideas on how to end a two-month walkout that has battered the economy. But that changed with Mr. Carter's intervention and the recent creation of a group of nations intended to guarantee that both sides comply with an accord. 
 "They are starting to look at the same reality," said Cesar Gaviria, secretary general of the Organization of American States and the mediator here. "In December, they were looking at different realities."
The two sides will meet on Friday, along with representatives from the so-called Group of Friends, which includes the United States, Brazil, Mexico, Chile, Spain and Portugal. 
In a Jan. 21 visit here, Mr. Carter made two suggestions to end the standoff. One was to adopt a constitutional amendment that would cut the president's term to four years from six, ending Mr. Chavez's presidency this year and leading to new elections. The other was to hold a recall referendum in August, asking whether the president should be removed from office. Mr. Chavez has long publicly supported a referendum in August. "We favor a proposal that permits an accord to permit elections no later than August of this year," Jesus Torrealba, executive secretary of the Democratic Coordinator, the umbrella for opposition organizations, said in an interview. "The Carter proposals are an excellent base for negotiations."
Mr. Gaviria said the acceptance of the proposals had "unblocked" the stalemate at the negotiating table and could lead to talks that might end a strike called on Dec. 2 by business leaders, unions and political parties to force Mr. Chavez to resign or call early elections.
The walkout, affecting nearly every industry nationwide, has paralyzed the economy and nearly shut down the oil industry, a crucial supplier of petroleum to the United States. But Mr. Chavez's government, while low on cash and faced with mounting protests, proved to be more resilient than many opponents thought. 
Now, many shops are operating normally, banks have announced they will restore normal working hours, and larger businesses like malls are expected to open next week. Government opponents have called the changes a sign of their flexibility in the strike, though it is clear that Venezuelans are increasingly dropping their support.
"This is not the end of the strike," said Arnold Moreno, president of the association representing the country's 40 largest malls. "We are entering into a different type of strike, more like what the supermarkets and banks have been doing -- operating, but with limited hours."
The oil industry has also been able to make headway restarting its far-flung operations, with dissident oil workers now acknowledging that daily production has topped a million barrels a day, up from 200,000 last month. Though still well short of the three million barrels a day the company, Petroleos de Venezuela, produced before the strike, the company's president said today that he expected to produce up to two million barrels daily in the coming month.
Still, despite mounting pressure on the opposition to resolve the crisis, reaching an agreement with the government will be difficult. 
Mr. Chavez's negotiators are demanding that the staunchly antigovernment media agree to provide impartial election coverage. The opposition, meanwhile, has publicly demanded that the government re-employ all 5,100 oil workers who were fired for striking -- unlikely for a government incensed by the involvement of oil executives in the strike.
Opposition leaders said they now supported the referendum because of the presence of the Group of Friends, which they said would guarantee that elections take place as planned. 
"The great difference between the recall referendum the president spoke about and the recall referendum Carter puts on the table is Carter's has a date for the vote -- Aug. 19," Mr. Torrealba said. "What Chavez offered was a booby trap."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A lottery kiosk, left, in Caracas, Venezuela, was open yesterday, but the McDonald's remained closed. (Zoe Selsky for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (85%); POLITICS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); STRIKES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); DISMISSALS (65%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (56%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (90%); HUGO CHAVEZ (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%); SPAIN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



947 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
An online bank has a message for skittish investors: consider a savings account.

BYLINE:  By Jane L. Levere

 BODY:
ING DIRECT, the online bank best known for the orange ball tossed around in its commercials, has gained a profitable foothold in the United States by wooing customers fed up with the minuscule interest rates offered by most banks.
 Next week, ING Direct will introduce a $50 million fine-tuning of that approach from Bartle Bogle Hegarty, as it tries to convince skittish stock market investors that its savings account would also make a fine investment option. 
 ING Direct, a subsidiary of the Dutch financial services company ING, wants to add 500,000 customers this year, to add to the more than one million it has acquired since entering the United States market in September 2000. 
But the online bank's inroads into the American market could run into some obstacles. If the stock market's fortunes rise, or traditional banks increase their interest rates, ING Direct's pivotal selling point could lose some of its attraction. 
ING Direct executives do not seem too worried. Their products have become increasingly attractive as investors bail out of the declining stock market, only to be underwhelmed by the interest rates that banks are paying on savings accounts or money market funds.
"Its financial instruments are as safe as a bank and safer than the stock market," said Jerry Silva, an analyst with TowerGroup, a research company based in Needham, Mass., that is part of Reuters. "And it gives you flexibility and doesn't lock you in, the way a traditional C.D. would." 
As of tomorrow, ING Direct's annual interest rate on its savings account, the only account it offers, will be 2.30 percent. Currently, the average savings account interest rate is 0.80 percent, while the average money market account pays an interest rate of 0.73 percent, according to Bankrate Inc.
ING Direct has used this spread to become the 95th-largest bank in the United States in less than three years of operation, according to the latest rankings from American Banker. The bank is already profitable, posting a nine-month net profit of $21.5 million through Sept. 30, compared with a $32.5 million net loss in the period in the previous year.
ING Direct has avoided the fate of a number of other Internet banks by keeping its costs and offerings to a minimum. Customers can bank either online or by phone. ING Direct does not offer checking accounts or impose any fees, service charges or minimum requirements on its products. 
To maintain its momentum, ING Direct is tweaking its marketing approach. It dropped its original agency, Howard, Merrell & Partners, of Raleigh, N.C., and is increasing its spending by $15 million from last year and more than doubling the $22 million it spent in 2001. 
David Lewis, ING Direct's chief marketing officer, said the original ads were directed at "value-conscious, savvy, thrifty, well-informed consumers who like finding a good deal."
He said the new ads were aimed at these customers, as well as at individuals who would normally not view a savings account as a good place for their money. This group would be more likely to use money market funds, scoffing at savings accounts as unsophisticated and a poor investment, with a low yield, he said. "The new campaign is meant to expand the category, to show that the account has a great yield and can be looked at as liquid," he said. 
The campaign's two television commercials, which will have their debuts on Monday and on Feb. 17, combine film and animation, and retain the orange ball. The first spot shows a disheveled man roaming through his home while his animated money dances around the rooms. Fed up with the money's aimless activity, he sits down at his computer and signs up for the company's "orange" savings account. 
The second spot depicts money rushing out of a bank vault, through the streets of a city, to a car dealership, where its owner is considering the purchase of a vintage car. 
"We wanted the spots to be about people's relationship to money," said Kevin McKeon, executive creative director of the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty, which is 49 percent owned by the Publicis Groupe. "We wanted to put the bank into the current cultural context for spending, to reposition saving as an exciting, positive opportunity."
Ian Rubin, research director of Financial Insights, a subsidiary of IDC, a consulting firm based in Framingham, Mass., said: "I think the message is great. They're saying, 'This can be fun, it doesn't have to be stodgy.' If it gets people thinking about savings accounts and C.D.'s who wouldn't think twice about them, it can drive a lot of people to look at ING as an option."
Cor Kluis, an equity analyst with Rabo Securities in Amsterdam, warned that ING Direct could face the possibility that other banks in the United States will match its interest rate. "From that moment, its growth will dampen," he said, although ING could still afford to respond competitively, since its cost structure is one-third that of traditional banks.
At least one traditional bank with a strong online presence does not view ING Direct as a threat.
"We do not consider ING Direct competition," said Avid Modjtabai, executive vice president and head of the Internet services group at Wells Fargo & Company, which has 3.7 million active online customers. "In our market we don't come across them that much. Most of our customers like multiple channels -- they're not single-channel users -- and ING Direct is single-channel only," meaning that it is solely an online bank.
Marijn Smit, an equity analyst with ABN Amro in Amsterdam, also said ING Direct could well lose customers once the stock market revives.
"There's the risk its clients could move some or all of their money out of their accounts," he said. "It will need to start offering some more products."
ING Direct is already looking at broadening its offerings, Mr. Lewis said. "We are actively considering an electronic checking account, with no paper checks," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: One advertising executive said ING Direct's new ads will be about "people's relationship to money." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (90%); INTERNET BANKING (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); RANKINGS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); ING GROEP NV (92%); ING BANK FSB (90%); BANKRATE INC (65%); HOWARD MERRELL & PARTNERS INC (50%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%); RATE (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (65%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (65%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (65%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



948 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Carmakers and Environmentalists Differ Over Fuel Cell Proposal 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
President Bush's proposal to double federal spending on fuel cell research drew praise today from automakers and skepticism from environmentalists.
 "Our scientists and engineers will overcome obstacles to taking these cars from laboratory to showroom so that the first car driven by a child born today could be powered by hydrogen and pollution-free," the president said in his State of the Union address on Tuesday night. 
 Automakers view the fuel cell as the technology that will eventually supplant the internal combustion engine and silence environmentalists concerned about smog and greenhouse gases. Fuel cells generate electricity from chemical reactions between hydrogen and air. Their only tailpipe emission is water vapor. But energy would be required to produce hydrogen to run tens of millions of cars, and greenhouse gas emissions might be the result, depending on how the hydrogen was produced. 
"We think this is a great step in the right direction," said Christopher Preuss, a spokesman for General Motors. "The president showing leadership in hydrogen is critical to making the jump. We're very pleased."
G.M. has built the most Jetsons-like prototype fuel cell vehicle, called the Hy-Wire. All of its drive components are underfoot, there is no dashboard, and the driver uses handgrips instead of foot pedals. Toyota and Honda have already leased the first tiny test fleets of fuel cell vehicles to the University of California and the city of Los Angeles, respectively. 
But automakers say the technology is not expected to be ready for broader sale before the end of the decade at the earliest, and many analysts believe that is optimistic. Besides the technological challenges that remain for fuel cells themselves -- particularly the challenge of finding a safer way to store hydrogen, which is now stored in highly pressurized tanks -- there is the daunting notion of outfitting the nation's filling stations with hydrogen instead of gasoline. 
Environmentalists, though enthusiastic about fuel cells in the longer term, want to see more aggressive development of hybrid cars. Those vehicles achieve sharp increases in fuel economy by supplementing gasoline engines with electric motors. General Motors and the Ford Motor Company have said they plan to join Toyota and Honda in equipping some vehicles with the hybrid technology. 
"The auto industry is using the promise of future fuel cells as a shield against using existing technology to dramatically cut our oil dependence, and pollution, today," said Daniel Becker, director of the Sierra Club's Global Warming and Energy Program. 
Jason Mark, director of the clean vehicles program at the Union of Concerned Scientists, said, "With oil use increasing at alarming rates, President Bush should aggressively push conventional technologies that can deliver cost-effective savings today, as opposed to waiting two decades." 
In his speech, President Bush proposed $1.2 billion in additional financing for fuel cell research over five years. Peter Hoffmann, the editor of The Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Letter, said that total federal spending on fuel cells, including military spending, came to about $230 million a year now.
Mr. Hoffmann and others said that the first widespread, practical use of fuel cells was likely to be in consumer electronics. People with cellphones and laptop computers, they said, will be willing to pay extra to avoid the inconvenience of rundown batteries. Next would be technology for houses and commercial sites, which could make all the electricity they needed from fuel cells that drew hydrogen from natural gas. 
Cars would be among the most complex applications because operating an ordinary sedan requires about 10 times as many kilowatts of power as a house. Carlos Ghosn, the chief executive of Nissan, quipped earlier this month that a fuel cell car today would have a sticker price of about $700,000. 
Jeremy Rifkin, author of The Hydrogen Economy, a recent book extolling the prospects of hydrogen power, dismissed the president's proposal as "a paltry gesture.
"What is required is a government-private partnership on a grand scale with a financial commitment at least equal to the monies currently being spent on homeland security and the preparation for war with Iraq," he said today.
The Bush administration has set in motion regulations to increase by 7 percent the fuel economy of light trucks -- sport utilities, pickups and minivans -- by the 2007 model year. Regulators are considering further action in later years to narrow the fuel-economy gap between light trucks and cars. 
But the administration has also been criticized for a tax provision that would permit small business owners to deduct immediately the entire cost of most of the largest S.U.V.'s, including the BMW X5 and the Hummer H2. The administration has said it is reviewing the loophole. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (96%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (91%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ENERGY RESEARCH (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (78%); SMOG (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



949 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: BOLDFACE NAMES 

BYLINE:  By Joyce Wadler

 BODY:
Die, S.U.V.-Driving Swine! Not You, Tina and Harry
 It's not often that a freelance writer with a column in an out-of-town newspaper can pull in a fancy crowd, but so it went when TINA BROWN and HARRY EVANS gave a party for her old pal, ARIANNA HUFFINGTON, on Wednesday night. Perhaps this is because Ms. Brown's column, which appears in The Times of London, is now also in Salon. 
 Among the 200 guests at the couple's sprawling duplex off Sutton Place: WALTER CRONKITE; LALLY WEYMOUTH; SIR ANDREW LLOYD WEBBER; SIR HOWARD STRINGER, chief of Sony of America; the writer LOUIS BEGLEY and his wife, ANKA MUHLSTEIN, who is also a writer, though you probably do not know her work because she writes in her first language, French. 
Also MORLEY SAFER, RIKKI KLIEMAN, NORA EPHRON and NICK PILEGGI, ED KOSNER, JULIE BAUMGOLD. Plus CANDICE BERGEN, who shoots you that "why do you people plague me?" look when she sees someone with a notebook, even if that person is talking to BARBARA WALTERS, who knows Ms. Huffington so well that she is godmother to her oldest daughter and did exercises with her on her living room floor when Ms. Huffington lived in New York until Ms. Huffington got so thin it was annoying. 
Anyway, the party was in honor of Ms. Huffington's new book, "Pigs At the Trough: How Corporate Greed and Political Corruption Are Undermining America."
This is one of those titles that pretty much says it all, though Ms. Huffington, tall and glamorous in black trousers and top, added a few rabble-rousing remarks in the plastic-tented garden in one of the sweetest pieces of real estate in New York.
"C.E.O.'s have been transformed from American royalty to America's Most Wanted in one year," Ms. Huffington said in Greek-accented English that reminds us, though we know it should not, of ZSA ZSA GABOR. "Of course, Howard Stringer is completely and totally exempt." 
Shouting and laughing from the audience. "It's been the most amazing transformation since MTV transformed OZZY OSBOURNE from a satanic rocker to America's cuddliest guy," Ms. Huffington added. 
Ms. Huffington has been involved in a campaign against S.U.V.'s. (Short version: gas guzzlers fund terrorists.) Sadly, at one point in the evening two such behemonths, as well as 15 Lincoln Town Cars, were spotted outside the Evans-Brown residence, many with their engines idling. And Mr. Evans, introducing Ms. Huffington, cheerfully admitted that her hosts owned an S.U.V. 
The day after the party Mr. Evans amplified: Their S.U.V., he said, was bought "with visions of living on the coast, with visions of snow, hurricanes and floods, so every day is a burden of guilt." 
The coast of what? The East River? Because the roads were looking pretty clean on Sutton Place on Tuesday night.
"No," Mr. Evans said, "we have a house in the Hamptons. And I want you to make a note of this for the record. I have an energy-abstemious bicycle. I'm not wholly guilty."

Look Guys, a New Way To Lose Your Euros
Former President BILL CLINTON goes to the World Economic Forum in Davos, and talks about bombs as North Korea's only cash crop and about the troubles in the Mideast, and what do we tell you about? 
His Super Bowl party. It was the hot ticket, even though the party, held at the Hotel Belvedere, did not start until after midnight. Attending were CHARLIE ROSE; MIKE MEDAVOY; JULIA ORMOND; PHIL KNIGHT, the chief executive of Nike; and LEWIS LAPHAM, editor of Harper's.
Mr. Lapham once wrote a slim volume about a visit to Davos called "The Agony of Mammon." It included a helpful glossary to commonly used Davos terms. ("Fur Coat: Symbol of Democracy.") 
Asked about the Super Bowl party, Mr. Lapham was amused by the English commentary. "They were clearly addressing remarks to a European audience," he responded, "pointing out how disastrous an interception could be for the opposing team." 
On the other hand, he said that while there had been a good deal of anti-American sentiment "vis-a-vis Iraq" at Davos, there was none at the party. 
"It was as if we had gotten beyond Iraq," Mr. Lapham said, "and wasn't it nice to wander around and look at a football game and not think the Oakland Raiders were working for SADDAM HUSSEIN." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); CORRUPTION (64%); WEATHER (60%); TERRORISM (50%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (89%); HOWARD STRINGER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



950 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT'S PROPOSALS: SPENDING; 
Deficits Will Rise, All Agree, But Consensus Then Fades

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
Two years after the United States seemed on the cusp of years of budget surpluses, President Bush's expanding agenda of tax cuts, military confrontation and new spending could set the stage for a decade or more of red ink, Democratic analysts say.
 The administration's tax-cutting plans alone could add up to more than $1.8 trillion over the next decade, according to Democratic analysts. Mr. Bush's plan to overhaul Medicare and offer prescription drug benefits to the elderly would cost an additional $400 billion over 10 years, according to White House estimates. 
 White House officials acknowledge that deficits will increase in the years ahead, but they say the deficits are still small in comparison with the size of the overall economy. The issue won little attention in the State of the Union address on Tuesday, with Mr. Bush pledging that steps encouraging growth would be the best way to "move toward a balanced budget," but devoting much more time to new spending plans than to new ways to pay for the programs. 
But Democrat analysts point out that the Congressional Budget Office has estimated that if the United States fights a war against Iraq, costs through next year could range anywhere from $34 billion to $183 billion.
And that is not the end to potential deficits. In recent statements and in his State of the Union address, Mr. Bush has outlined a smorgasbord of smaller spending initiatives: doubling the budget of the Securities and Exchange Commission, new money to fight AIDS in Africa, more research on hydrogen-powered cars.
All of this would be coming when the federal deficit is already soaring and long-term projections show deficits continuing for years. 
The Congressional Budget Office said today that the federal government shortfall would rise to $199 billion this year from $158 billion last year -- even without any of Mr. Bush's new tax or spending proposals.
Two years ago, the congressional agency and the administration predicted an accumulated surplus of $5.6 trillion over 10 years. Today, the congressional agency said the 10-year surplus had essentially disappeared -- again, before considering any of Mr. Bush's proposals.
Most economists agree that at least for the next few years deficits are forecast to be in line with the scale of the economy. But many also warn that the real problem lies in the next decade, when experts predict that Social Security and Medicare costs will soar as baby boomers begin to reach retirement age.
"Given what has happened to the deficit in last couple of years, coupled with what happens when the baby boomers retire, I think these proposals are by far the most reckless I've seen any president propose since in the three decades I have been here," said Robert Greenstein, executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a left-leaning research group here.
Long-term budget forecasts have been notoriously wrong in the past several years. At the peak of the economic boom and the stock market bubble, White House and congressional analysts wildly underestimated the tax revenues. 
Similarly, all official forecasts overestimated tax revenues last year by more than $100 billion, because analysts miscalculated the impact of the economic slowdown.
"I can tell you one thing about our budget estimates," said Mitchell E. Daniels, the White House budget director, in a recent conversation with reporters. "They won't be accurate."
But by any measure, the combined total of Mr. Bush's full roster of proposals and plans would be immense.
By far the biggest impact would come from his tax plans. Though most lawmakers have focused their attention on Mr. Bush's $670 billion plan to reduce taxes over 10 years, his complete tax agenda is much broader than that.
In his speech on Tuesday, for example, Mr. Bush announced that his budget for next year would include proposals to make the tax cuts enacted in 2001 permanent. That alone would cost $785 billion through 2013, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
Administration officials are also convinced of the need to change the Alternative Minimum Tax. If left unchanged, the rules now in place would soon lead to steep tax increases for millions of families -- a situation that Republicans and Democrats alike consider unacceptable. The cost of repair: nearly $600 billion over 10 years.
White House officials have already hinted that Mr. Bush's budget proposal for next year, which will be made public on Monday, could predict deficits of more than $300 billion for this year and next.
Those would set records, eclipsing the $290 billion shortfall in 1992. A $300 billion deficit would be less than 3 percent of the total economy, which is modest compared to the record set by President Reagan in 1983. The deficit that year was 6 percent of the total economy.
White House officials and Republican lawmakers contend that much of the current difficulty stems from a trio of unforeseeable calamities: a recession that began just as Mr. Bush entered office; the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001; and the collapse of the stock market bubble, which caused a huge drop in taxes tied to capital gains and executive bonuses.
Congressional forecasters and Mr. Bush's Democratic opponents generally assume that the economic growth will recover and that tax revenues will eventually bounce back from last year's plunge.
Republicans argue that the best way to speed up that process is to cut taxes and encourage greater investment. 
"Our budgets need to look beyond the next election and towards the next generation," said Representative James Nussle, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the House Budget Committee.
But Republicans are defensive about the issue. Mr. Daniels has said the new budget proposal will include mostly five-year projections rather than the 10-year estimates that have been common practice for the past decade.
Five-year estimates have the advantage of being more dependable. But they may not show the impact of proposals that will mostly affect future years, like a change in the Alternative Minimum Tax.
House Republicans appeared defensive today as well. Mr. Nussle had originally scheduled a public hearing today at which the Congressional Budget Office could explain its latest budget estimates. But Mr. Nussle canceled the hearing on Tuesday evening, and held a closed-door briefing with budget officials instead.
Sean Spicer, a spokesman for the House Budget Committee, said Mr. Nussle canceled the hearing because Republicans had not yet named all their new members on the committee.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LEDGER: A More Expensive Agenda"The cost of the president's tax and spending proposals could exceed $2.5 trillion over 10 years, without the possible cost of a war with Iraq. TAX PROPOSALS: Making tax cuts of 2001 permanentCOST (billions): TERM$785 (years): 10 TAX PROPOSALS: Current tax relief planCOST (billions): 670TERM (years): 10 TAX PROPOSALS: Changes to the alternative minimum tax*COST (billions): 500-600TERM (years): 10 SPENDING PROPOSALS: Overhaul of Medicare, including prescription drug benefitCOST (billions): TERM$400 (years): 10 SPENDING PROPOSALS: AIDS relief in AfricaCOST (billions): 15TERM (years): 10 SPENDING PROPOSALS: Development of vaccines or treatments for biological warfare agentsCOST (billions): 6TERM (years): 10 SPENDING PROPOSALS: Job retraining, child care and relocation assistance for the long-term unemployedCOST (billions): 4TERM (years): 10 SPENDING PROPOSALS: Infrastructure for hydrogen-powered carsCOST (billions): 1.2TERM (years): 5 SPENDING PROPOSALS: Addiction treatmentCOST (billions): 0.6TERM (years): 3 SPENDING PROPOSALS: Mentoring programCOST (billions): 0.5TERM (years): 3 SPENDING PROPOSALS: Additional financing for Securities and Exchange CommissionCOST (billions): 0.4TERM (years): 1 *Not formally proposed, but widely regarded to be inevitable.(Sources: White House; Congressional Budget Office) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); MEDICARE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); RETIREMENT AGE (75%); AGING (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); AIDS & HIV (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (56%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (50%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (50%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



951 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Washington vs. Skeptics On State of the Economy 

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
By voting unanimously to keep interest rates where they are, Alan Greenspan and the other Federal Reserve policy makers indicated yesterday that they were not overly concerned about the economy's current weakness.
 And in presenting a tax cut plan that will provide only meager economic stimulus in 2003, President Bush appears to be signaling a belief that the current stagnation will soon turn to strength. 
 This puts both men squarely at odds with American consumers, who are quite fearful about the economy, judging by confidence figures released Tuesday that came in at a nine-year low. Stock investors, who are famously positive well before an economic recovery is evident, also seem stuck in a doubting mood, unwilling to bet yet on a turnaround that both Mr. Bush and Mr. Greenspan seem to be anticipating. 
To be sure, Mr. Bush said in his State of the Union address Tuesday night that the sluggish economy was worrisome and evidence that the nation ought to support his tax plan.
But many economists say that the design of Mr. Bush's tax cut may not be enough to keep the economy from faltering in coming months. With an economy this fragile, economists say, both the Fed and the White House should have been more aggressive. 
"We needed more from both the Fed and the fiscal side," said Henry Kaufman, an economist at Henry Kaufman & Company in New York. "Against a backdrop of less than 3 percent economic growth, the unemployment rate will rise, tilting perhaps as high as 6.5 percent. Under those circumstances, the Federal Reserve should do more and fiscal policy should be more responsive to this year."
President Bush wants to eliminate the tax on stock dividends, to speed up already scheduled cuts in the income tax rates and to increase the amount companies can write off on their equipment purchases, in the hopes of stimulating corporate spending.
Even if President Bush's plan were to sail through Congress, which is unlikely, most of its effects would not be felt until next year. The effects this year of a compromise measure that Mr. Bush may be able to push through, economists say, would total only about $70 billion. That is minuscule in a $10 trillion economy.
Because state and local governments will be raising taxes at the same time, there may be little stimulus from a federal tax cut. 
"As a general issue, you're not getting that much stimulus in either year compared to the cost to the Treasury," said Ed McKelvey, senior economist at Goldman, Sachs. "But it does take a risk if things fall apart fairly quickly. Maybe you ought to have more bang for the buck in fiscal 2003 than later on." 
There are clearly risks to the president in waiting to concede just how fragile the economy is. The most significant is that things could become much worse economically before they get better. 
The logic behind designing a plan that focuses more on near-term stimulus, Mr. McKelvey explained, would be to get the economy through the current rough spot and allow the American consumer to carry it through 2004 and beyond. With that in mind, extending tax cuts more broadly among various income levels may have been more effective, he said. 
In addition, a successful plan from Mr. Bush is especially crucial now, economists said, because the Fed has been unable to stimulate the economy even after cutting interest rates 12 times since January 2001. Its latest rate cut came in November and brought rates to their lowest levels in more than 40 years.
But the only part of the economy that has responded to the plunging rates is the housing sector. And unfortunately, growth in housing contributes less to the overall economy now than it did the last time the economy exited a recession.
"Housing's contribution to gross domestic product in this cycle has been trivial in an absolute sense, around 3 percent to 4 percent," Mr. McKelvey said. "In the first year of a recovery it would normally contribute 20 percent. The Fed has been able to hold that sector up and keep the economy glued together, but that's all."
What the Fed's interest rate cuts have not been able to do is stimulate demand for the products that corporations make. As a result, corporate profits are desultory and job cuts keep mounting. 
Many economists think that the unemployment rate will continue to rise in coming months, endangering Mr. Bush's popularity. Paul Kasriel, director of economic research at Northern Trust in Chicago, said that he expected the economy to grow 2.25 percent in the first half of 2003, a rate that is not nearly fast enough to keep unemployment from increasing. Growth in the money supply has been slowing recently, Mr. Kasriel said, "which doesn't augur well for economic activity over the next three to six months."
All this will put pressure on the president to do more, Mr. Kasriel said. And if the stock market keeps on its downward slope, consumer confidence could slip further. He suggested that if Mr. Bush lowered marginal tax rates, it would increase the economy's growth potential without setting off inflation. 
A problem for both Mr. Bush and Mr. Greenspan is that the economy has not yet recovered from the late 1990's boom in which so much capital was misallocated, invested in companies that had no reason to exist. To some degree, only time will allow equilibrium to return to the economy and to the stock market. 
"We have just been through the biggest stock market bubble in the history of this country, and along with that bubble we had a lot of ill-advised investment," Mr. Kasriel said. 
"Sometimes you just have to let some of these imbalances that were created run their course. Unfortunately these things don't run smoothly. It's not pleasant, but that's what's going on." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INCOME TAX (72%); DIVIDENDS (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: KAUFMAN & CO (67%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); ALAN GREENSPAN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



952 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Food-Chain Politics 

 BODY:
One thing Americans should have figured out over the last week is that politics is following the law of the food chain at its most primal. The weakest levels of government, with the least power to raise money, are being stuck with the tab for the troubled economy. The higher up you go, the more determined elected officials are to ignore the cries from the bottom rung.
 President Bush, who commands a federal government with the literal ability to print money, never mentioned the needs of the state and local governments when he gave his budget address Tuesday. And yesterday in Albany Gov. George Pataki unveiled a budget that passed on much of the pain to New York City and other localities in the form of cuts in state aid. Meanwhile Mr. Pataki ignored Mayor Michael Bloomberg's plea to give New York City the power to raise more revenue through a commuter tax. 
 What we have here is a lopsided state of affairs. The federal government should be helping the states in their time of need. Mr. Bush, whose top priority is obviously the war on terrorism, should be showering the states and cities with money for police, firefighters and health services. But he prefers to simply take the credit and use his financial resources elsewhere, like cutting federal taxes. Mr. Pataki wants to keep his reputation as a tax-cutter too, so his offer of help to New York City comes mainly in the form of one-shot money Mayor Bloomberg was already counting on, in additional payments from state-run authorities. The governor's complicated cuts in health care spending will give more money to the city on one hand, and take it away on the other, leaving it with what experts say is an overall loss.
All of this may make for good politics, but it is dreadful economics. The governor wants to plunge ahead with a portion of the state's tax-cut initiative by giving localities money to reduce property taxes for senior citizens, no matter what their income. Meanwhile the governor wants to cut $1.24 billion in aid to local school districts starting in July. Since the schools are already strapped for cash, an educated guess is that that would mean something like $1.24 billion in new local property taxes for everybody. Round and round the money goes, and where it stops has little or no relation to where it's most needed. 
Mr. Pataki is also trying to pass on his bad budget habits to the localities. Mayor Bloomberg has been lobbying for the state to take over some city services and allow the commuter tax to be reimposed, rightly arguing that to get its house in order, the city needs regular income it can depend on every year. But Mr. Pataki is cutting the recurring aid while sending the city one-shot revenues that will never be available again. He did the same thing last year, packaging help for Mr. Bloomberg in the form of $275 million to pay for part of the teachers' contract. The mayor warned that the teachers would still be there in 2003, expecting their salaries, while the one-time revenues would have vanished. Sure enough, here we are, with the same faculty payroll and a new, $275 million hole in the city budget.
The governor, meanwhile, is facing budget gaps totaling almost $12 billion over the next 14 months, in part because he refused to acknowledge reality or make tough decisions last year, when an election was looming. Now Mr. Pataki proposes cuts through a swath of state programs -- taking particular aim at education and health care -- while vowing he will not raise what he calls "job-killing taxes."
No one should be under the illusion that this means taxes will not go up. It simply means that Mr. Pataki wants to leave that dirty job to others -- mainly the Legislature and the local governments.
Mr. Pataki's proposed budget also contains a terrible bit of financial slight-of-hand. The governor wants to use the money due to the state from the tobacco case settlement to leverage a huge new state borrowing. The state is already staggering under one of the nation's highest levels of debt, and this plan would make the situation much worse.
That's the sort of thing that fiscally conservative Republicans used to howl about in the dim past. Mr. Bloomberg, whose city was disciplined by the pain of the financial crisis of the 1970's, has been trying mightily to avoid that kind of irresponsible behavior. Besides sending the tax hikes down the river to the bottom of the food chain, Mr. Pataki, and President Bush as well, are floating down the pressure to mortgage the future to get past the crisis of today. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PROPERTY TAX (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAX LAW (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); TERRORISM (66%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TERRORISM; STATES (US); EDITORIALS; TAXATION; LOCAL GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



953 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT'S PROPOSALS: POLITICAL LANDSCAPE; 
President's Speech Relieves and Rallies Republicans

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
With evident relief, Republican leaders and White House officials asserted today that President Bush had put himself in a strong position for his re-election campaign with his State of the Union address.
 Their statements of confidence came after a week in which some Republicans had expressed anxiety that the declining economy and concern about a war in Iraq was undercutting Mr. Bush's political standing. 
 But today, Republicans dismissed public polls pointing to voter concern about Mr. Bush and the economy, and said that Mr. Bush's performance -- coming on what appears to be the eve of his leading the nation into war -- had put him in a strong position.
"There was pressure on this president about whether he can fashion a case for economic concerns and foreign concerns, and he did," said Shawn Steel, chairman of the California Republican Party. "It was a motivating speech for the hard core, and a motivating speech for the soft core."
Mr. Steel said that before the speech, he had thought that Mr. Bush's long-shot hopes of winning his state -- which he said had improved when Mr. Bush's popularity increased after the Sept. 11 attacks -- had been slipping away. Now he feels slightly more confident, he said. White House officials asserted today that they had not been concerned about polls showing some erosion in Mr. Bush's support. Still, Matthew Dowd, who coordinates polling for the White House, issued a memorandum before Mr. Bush spoke noting that Mr. Bush's approval rating remained high by historical standards, even if it was not as high as it once was, a point other White House officials were quick to repeat today.
"The president has gone from being extraordinarily popular to being extremely popular to now being very popular," one official said. "While others can fixate on the so-called troubling turns, we don't think about it that way and we don't focus on it."
Jayne Millerick, chairwoman of the Republican Party of New Hampshire, said: "People have been talking about how there has been significant change in these poll numbers. I don't think that's entirely accurate -- and I don't think it's really representative of how people feel he's doing as president."
Democrats and Republicans said today that Mr. Bush's speech would ultimately prove to have far less bearing on his political standing than the outcome of a war in Iraq or the condition of the economy a year from now. Several Democrats argued that the economic problems would only get worse after a war in Iraq, noting that was what happened to Mr. Bush's father 10 years ago.
But Dan Quayle, who was vice president under the first President George Bush, disputed that, and said the situations were not at all alike. 
"Assuming the Iraq situation resolves itself quickly and reasonably favorably, the economy will come back," Mr. Quayle said.
He said that there was robust growth going into the Persian Gulf war, and that only afterward had the economy started to deteriorate.
Mr. Quayle offered high praise for President Bush and his speech, saying, "He has this uncanny ability so that when he has to deliver, he does." 
But the former vice president demurred when asked to draw contrasts between the political skills of the father and the son.
"I think I want to pass on that one," he said. "They are both great. I don't want to get into that one."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Well-wrapped protesters made a bid for President Bush's attention yesterday in Grand Rapids, Mich., where he spoke on plans to revamp Medicare. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (72%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



954 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT'S PROPOSALS: AIDS POLICY; 
Bush AIDS Effort Surprises Many, But Advisers Call It Long Planned

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
As one of the government's leading scientists, Dr. Anthony S. Fauci often visits the White House to talk about bioterrorism and vaccine research. But whenever he sees President Bush, Dr. Fauci said today, the president has the same question: "He says, 'Tony, how's the AIDS program going?' "
 That program, $15 billion over the next five years to fight global AIDS, caught many people by surprise when President Bush announced it Tuesday night. But while critics have long accused Mr. Bush of neglecting the epidemic, Dr. Fauci and other officials have been working on the initiative since June, they say, at Mr. Bush's explicit direction. 
 Mr. Bush's aides say the president has always been committed to the global AIDS cause, though not convinced that taxpayers' money could be well spent. But in recent months, a string of people from inside and outside the administration -- including Colin L. Powell, the secretary of state; Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser; and Bono, the Irish rock star -- made a passionate case to persuade Mr. Bush that the time was right. 
Among those most surprised by Mr. Bush's announcement were officials in 12 countries in Africa, which along with Haiti and Guyana will receive the money. Page A19. 
In the United States, the president's unexpected initiative has political ramifications, as well as humanitarian ones. With Republicans still smarting from racially charged remarks of Senator Trent Lott, the former Republican leader, Mr. Bush's initiative may help mend fences with African-American leaders in Congress.
Today, they held a news conference to express what Representative John Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan, called "new hope" and "some skepticism."
And as Mr. Bush prepares for possible war with Iraq, his new commitment to global AIDS suggests an emerging geopolitical reality: if the United States is going to present itself as having a moral imperative to stop terrorism, it must also take up the cause of morality in a manner that that does not involve dropping bombs.
As one senior administration official, who was involved in the AIDS effort, said today, "The president often talks about not only winning the war, but winning the peace, and making the world a better place." 
But some advocates say the program may not make the world all that much better. They complain that the money will not be parceled out quickly enough and that areas of the world where the epidemic is exploding, including China and India, are being ignored.
Others say that the program will give only $1 billion to a United Nations global fund to fight AIDS.
"The fund needs $6.3 billion over the next two years," said Anil Soni, a top fund official. "The president's announcement ensures that the administration is committed to $400 million."
The seeds of Mr. Bush's initiative were planted as long as two years ago, at the start of his administration. Senator Bill Frist, the new Republican leader, who as a heart surgeon has volunteered on medical missions in Africa, said in an interview last year that he had been pressing Mr. Bush to do more to combat global AIDS since the first time the president invited him to ride on Air Force One. 
"This president gets it," Dr. Frist said then.
But the president worried that the money would not be wisely spent, and did not want American tax dollars wasted. Jeffrey D. Sachs, an economist and director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University who has advocated strongly for more money for global AIDS, today recalled his early meetings with administration officials, including Secretary Powell. 
"There was great skepticism," Mr. Sachs said.
But over time, that skepticism began to ease, for several reasons. The price of AIDS drug cocktails dropped, as low as $300 per year for generics. The cocktails became simpler to take, easing administration concerns that poor African nations would not be able to administer them. Also, administration officials, including Secretary Powell, Dr. Fauci and Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, traveled to Africa and were deeply moved by the sight of so many people dying for lack of drugs.
Dr. Fauci, a top official with the National Institutes of Health, recalled briefing President Bush about his trip. "I told him that it was a great catastrophe. Babies were getting infected. Dying mothers were infected."
By last spring, support was also building in Congress, even in conservative circles. A critical turning point, Bono said, came when Senator Jesse Helms, the retired North Carolina Republican who frequently denounced foreign aid as "a rathole," called for more AIDS money.
Religious leaders also took up the cause. Frank Griswold, the presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church in the United States, said he met late last year with Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld to discuss the global AIDS pandemic. Bishop Griswold said he told Mr. Rumsfeld that AIDS was destroying and destabilizing armies across Africa and was leaving millions of orphans as a pool from which terrorist organizations could draw recruits. 
"It is in our self-interest to address H.I.V./AIDS," Bishop Griswold said.
A central question, though, was how much money the administration should spend. Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general, estimated that $10 billion a year was needed, and by last spring advocates for people with AIDS were demanding that the president pledge $2.5 billion a year. Dr. Frist, of Tennessee, along with Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, introduced legislation that would have authorized roughly that amount. The bill passed the Senate but was not taken up by the House. Now, Dr. Frist is preparing to re-introduce it.
In the White House, Mr. Bush was not convinced by last spring that the United States should make such a large commitment. Last June, he announced a much smaller effort: $500 million a year for medicines that would prevent expectant mothers in Africa and the Caribbean from passing the AIDS virus on to their babies. Yet even as the president made the announcement, Dr. Fauci said, Mr. Bush made it clear to his top advisers that he wanted to do more.
"We all knew that it couldn't stop there," Dr. Fauci said. "The president had a vision and he wanted to do something that went well beyond mother-to-child transmission."
White House officials, Dr. Fauci said, asked him to devise a cost-effective plan and prove that it could work to treat the infected, and prevent new infections. He brought scientists from around the world, including Peter Mugyenyi, director of the Joint Clinical Research Center in Uganda, to the White House for a series of meetings. In Uganda, Dr. Mugyenyi is treating 5,000 people with AIDS medicines through a network of clinics that, while hardly sophisticated by American standards, is effective, Dr. Fauci said.
But Dr. Mugyenyi said today that he could treat many more people, if he had the money. "Our biggest problem is lack of funds, which has not allowed us to scale up," he said.
That argument struck a chord with the president, who cited it in his State of the Union address. While not mentioning Dr. Mugyenyi by name, Mr. Bush spoke of a doctor who told AIDS patients he could not help them. "In an age of miraculous medicines," Mr. Bush said, 'no person should have to hear those words."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many may have been surprised by the president's AIDS initiative, but Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, a leading federal scientist, says he was not one. (Associated Press)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); AIDS POLICY (90%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); VACCINES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (65%); IRAQ WAR (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%); TRENT LOTT (58%); JOHN CONYERS (58%); BONO (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



955 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: The State of the Union: Resolve and Doubt; 
A Pleasing Speech

 BODY:
To the Editor:
President Bush's State of the Union address (front page, Jan. 29) was wonderful! 
 I want all tax cuts to be accelerated and to become effective immediately. 
I agree that we need to stimulate the economy in the face of lingering recession. The double taxation on dividends is wrong and should be stopped. 
 Also, I like the idea of limits on lawsuits. Let's stop making trial lawyers rich and regular people poor. We need tort reform now to lower the prices of goods and services and medical care.
My only concern is the increased spending that Mr. Bush proposed. I think we need to cut spending. And although I understand his concern with the AIDS epidemic in Africa, we need to worry more about things in the United States.
Regarding the impending war, we need to attack Iraq now. I would rather fight this madman now, before he gets even stronger. Forget what Germany and France think. 

J. B. MIXON
Roanoke, Va., Jan. 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); LITIGATION (87%); AIDS & HIV (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TORTS (70%); TORT REFORM (70%); LAWYERS (68%); EPIDEMICS (52%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MIXON, J B; HUSSEIN, SADDAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROANOKE, VA, USA (50%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); GERMANY (79%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (56%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003 



956 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
They May Be Yakkers but a Lot of People Are Listening

BYLINE:  By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
THE INFLUENTIALS
By Ed Keller and Jon Berry
The Free Press. 353 pages. $26.
 Marketers never know where the quest for that coveted though elusive grail -- the ideal consumer -- will take them. In Calvin Trillin's charming novel "Tepper Isn't Going Out," for instance, it took them to Murray Tepper's dark blue Chevy Malibu. Tepper, who compiles lists for mail-order businesses, has a curious affinity for sitting in his parked car that captures the imagination of New Yorkers who line up outside his rolled-down window to chat or ask advice. It turns out that these Tepperites constitute a "magic list," consumers who, for some mysterious reason, will buy anything. 
 Now, in "The Influentials," Ed Keller and Jon Berry, the chief executive and vice president of RoperASW, present their own version of the magic list -- those Americans who tell the rest of us what to buy, where to eat or whom to vote for. "The Influentials," Mr. Keller and Mr. Berry write, are the 10 percent of the population who stand out as "a thought-leader, trendsetter group." They are not only "leaders in their community" but also "pioneer consumers": it's thanks to them that the rest of us got into videocassette recorders, home computers and catalog shopping. 
They are not, as one might expect, the richest, the most powerful, the most famous or even the first to try out new gadgets. Rather they are local activists, those people in your community who organize petitions, oversee the library fund-raising drive and chair meetings at the Kiwanis Club or B'nai Brith. And 30 years of Roper polls have led the two authors to conclude that the Influentials "give the thumbs-up that propels a trend or the thumbs-down that relegates it to a short 15 minutes of fame."
Tracing how influence ripples throughout society has been the subject of a series of recent books, from Malcolm Gladwell's "Tipping Point" to Emanuel Rosen's "Anatomy of Buzz." Many of these draw on the expanding field of network theory, which studies the complex webs of connections (remember six degrees of separation?) that some scholars argue underlie everything from human biology to the Internet.
The idea is intriguing, and Roper's vast reservoir of survey data would seem to provide all this airy theorizing with some down-to-earth evidence. 
Unfortunately, though, the authors seem more concerned with presenting an extended advertisement for Roper's services than a thoughtful social analysis.
Elmo Roper essentially created the Influentials to track the thinking of society's opinion leaders on important national issues, candidates and major companies. He assumed that about 10 percent of the population was politically active and that these people helped shape public opinion. So he developed a series of questions to figure out who they were.
Over time, though, Roper found these activists did more than simply qualify as opinion leaders. They were an "early majority," a step or two ahead of the public as a whole on everything from social trends to consumer products, offering a picture of "what the majority of Americans will be doing in two to five years," whether it's talking on cellphones or buying a personal computer.
Because these activists tend to be respected by and broadly connected to significantly larger numbers of people than the average American, their word of mouth composes that sweet sound, buzz. They are primo yakkers.
Of course, that's not all they are. We learn that the Influentials are more likely than the public as a whole to travel, read, cook, exercise, have a hobby, return products they don't like, be self-reliant, volunteer in the community, eat Thai food, change careers, change diets, suffer a major illness, recommend a restaurant, avoid using credit cards, become a parent, be optimistic, use a PC, read Consumer Reports, listen to jazz and so on and so on and so on.
Mr. Keller and Mr. Berry have collected a numbing amount of information, some trivial, some profound, but to what end? There is little attempt to put this group's views on the country's values, direction, obsessions and priorities into any meaningful social and historical context. Instead, the authors offer advice on how to better market a product. So what should we make of the Influentials' growing preoccuption with family matters? This is where to focus product and services. What's to be learned from their committed environmentalism? Make sure your business has an environmental impact statement.
But if the authors have failed to say what it all means, they have also failed to make the case that it all matters. 
The notion that some people's word of mouth is more important than others' is both seductive and sensible. But how do we know Roper really figured out who they are? Elmo Roper made up his mind that 10 percent of the population influenced the other 90 percent based on his own beliefs and convenience -- before he did any polling of the so-called Influentials. Maybe only 4 percent of the public is really influential; maybe 18 percent is. Or 27 percent.
As for the 10 percent that Roper Reports has identified, the authors have, to be sure, assembled an encyclopedic collection of polling data, chock-full of interesting tidbits. But 10 percent still works out to be about 28 million people. So perhaps it's not surprising that many of the authors' generalizations tend to be banal, unsubstantiated or full of qualifications. For example, they declare that because one-third of the Influentials have experienced the death of a mother and three-quarters are married with children, "Large numbers of Influentials have been through the kind of life stage events that leaven ego and broaden perspective." Unlike the rest of the public?
Or they write that Influentials "are more likely to question religious or spiritual conformity" because 22 percent (10 percentage points more than the public as a whole) portray themselves as "spiritual but uncomfortable with organized religion." But many more -- 39 percent (about the same as in the total public) -- described themselves as "strong" followers of a particular religion, while another 29 percent say they are religious but not active.
And what do they use as an example of the Influentials' supposed idiosyncrasy? One has driven a Ford Taurus station wagon for seven years. Egads!
Trendsetting is a fascinating phenomenon, and there are clearly cases where word of mouth has made or broken a fad. (Remember the unheralded best seller "The Bridges of Madison County"?) But there are also important instances where the theory breaks down. Why else would last-minute blitzes on television -- a medium that Influentials rate as less important than print -- so often sway elections? Why didn't they predict reality television?
Mr. Keller and Mr. Berry have assembled an enormous amount of statistically significant data. What they haven't done is show how it is significant in ways that matter.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jon Berry, top, and Ed Keller. (Photographs by Margaret Fox) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (89%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); TRENDS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PETITIONS (67%); FUNDRAISING (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: GFK AG (84%)

TICKER: GFK (FRA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (84%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



957 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: ANTIQUES; 
Americana Sells Well, Considering

BYLINE:  By Wendy Moonan

 BODY:
The Americana sales this month were remarkably strong, given the economy. Christie's auctions of important Americana, Pennsylvania German folk art, the Russell B. Aitken Collection of Decoys and the Benjamin F. Edwards III Collection of Chinese Imari Porcelain Part II, totaled $13.7 million (against an estimate of $9.2 million to $14.3 million). Sotheby's sales of Americana, including furniture, folk art, silver and early military accouterments, totaled $15.9 million. Those sales had been expected to bring $12.9 million to $18.9 million.
 "The market is as resilient as ever," said John Hays, deputy chairman of Christie's. "All the precincts were as strong as could be. What was encouraging was to see the number of private buyers participating. The trade was present, but the dealers had their horns pulled in." 
 Asked about this last comment, Todd Prickett of C. L. Prickett in Yardley, Pa., refused to concede that he had been cautious. "Many lots at Christie's were overreserved and overestimated," he said. At Sotheby's, he added, he bought a late Chippendale mahogany camelback sofa from Philadelphia, circa 1790, in the sale by the bullion dealer Bob Rubin (for $148,000), and a Federal eagle-inlaid mahogany card table from Massachusetts, circa 1795, in the Appell sale (for $153,600). The estimate for the table was $25,000 to $35,000.
Christie's top lot was a Chippendale mahogany serpentine card table from New York, 1765-1785. A private buyer got it for $867,500, against a high estimate of $500,000. Bill Samaha, an Americana consultant from Wellesley, Mass., bought a Connecticut Chippendale cherry block-and-shell chest of drawers, 1770-1790, for $669,500, against a high estimate of $600,000, setting a world auction record for a piece of Connecticut furniture. A private collector bought a rare New York double-dome silver teapot, with the mark of Simeon Soumaine, circa 1730, for $207,500, against a high estimate of $150,000.
The Aitken Collection, 100 percent sold, totaled $2.8 million. The Boston dealer Stephen B. O'Brien Jr. bought the top lot, on behalf of a client, for $801,500. It was a preening pintail drake decoy made by the Massachusetts master carver A. Elmer Crowell (1864-1954). It set a world record price for any American waterfowl decoy. (In 1986 the same bird sold for a then-record price of $319,000 at a Richard Oliver auction in Kennebunk, Me.)
In folk art a Sheldon Peck double portrait of Francis Almira Millener and her stern-faced mother, Fanny Root Millener, sold for $647,500, against a high estimate of $400,000.
In the Sotheby's sales the top lot was a Chippendale serpentine-front bombe chest of drawers from Boston. It was inscribed and dated "Nathan Bowen, 1772" and sold for $1.5 million, its high estimate. Only 11 other examples of the form are known. The furniture scholar Luke Beckerdite bought the chest.
The American furniture dealer Leigh Keno bought the second highest lot, a massive walnut gateleg table made in Philadelphia in 1725, for $680,000, against a high estimate of $350,000. The table was made by James Bartram (1701-1770) to commemorate his marriage to Elizabeth Maris. Dated 1725 with the initials J, E and B in a bell-shaped inlay, the William-and-Mary-style table descended through nine generations of the family to the sellers.
The Appell Family Collection generated $3.7 million at Sotheby's, more than double its $1.5 million high estimate.
The shock of the week was the failure of the Col. Elijah St. John Chippendale mahogany pier table, which Sotheby's had estimated at $1 million to $1.5 million. Before the sale Sotheby's had announced, "The lower portion of the skirt on this table may be of a later date." In the presale viewing, Mr. Prickett said, he saw that its apron "wasn't right" and that a newer piece had been applied to the skirt years ago. "You could see more finish on the old part of the table," he said.
One positive surprise at Sotheby's was the price paid for a Japanese-style five-piece tea and coffee set in silver and mixed metals, designed by Edward C. Moore for Tiffany & Company about 1878. Decorated with gold and copper gourds and vines, the set sold for $265,600, against a high estimate of $120,000. 
Sales of Americana were also good at the Winter Antiques Show. Mr. Keno sold eight pieces on opening night, including two corner chairs, called roundabout chairs: one from Newport, for $390,000; the other from Boston, for $210,000.
Carswell Rush Berlin, a New York dealer in 19th-century American furniture, said he had sold the major pieces in his booth and had had a fabulous show. Marybeth Keene, who was working with the Woodbury, Conn., dealer Wayne E. Pratt, said: "It was not our best show ever, but it was a good one, and all the right people came. We sold seven pieces of furniture, including a great New Hampshire chest-on-chest, and an important nest of baskets."
Suzanne Courcier and her partner, Robert W. Wilkins, of Austerlitz, N.Y., were the only ones selling Shaker furniture. "It was a good year for Shaker," she said. "We had a couple of new collectors and some crossover people, one of whom bought a graduated stack of nine Shaker boxes." The most important sale was a tall cupboard being deaccessioned by the Shaker Museum in Old Chatham, N.Y.
Mary Olivea, working with David A. Schorsch of Woodbury, Conn., said, "We expected to do well with 'smalls,' which we didn't, but we sold our big pieces." These included a life-size sculpture of a circa 1880 racetrack tout trade figure attributed to Charles Parker Dowler of Providence, R.I.; an American hooked fish rug from about 1920; and "Snowflake on Stand," a Pennsylvania German folk art sculpture by John Scholl (1827-1916).
Sumpter Priddy III of Alexandria, Va., sold two major pieces, a serpentine sofa from Winchester, Va., about 1790, and a circa 1785 secretary bookcase with a cove cornice pierced with Gothic arches. He attributed the bookcase to John Bankson and Richard Lawson of Baltimore; he wrote an article about them for Chipstone Journal in 2000.
"Sales weren't booming but were solid across the board," said Peter Tillou of Torrington, Conn., "and the people who attended were knowledgeable, erudite and appreciative." He sold a Connecticut highboy for $200,000 and a large Peruvian chief's cape made of green, orange, blue and black feathers from about A.D. 400.
The dealers at the show are having a small identity crisis. "There aren't as many Americana dealers as there used to be," Mr. Tillou said.
But the European dealers felt neglected. "A lot of people were surprised to find me here," said the Paris dealer Carolle Thibaut-Pomerantz. A specialist in antique European wallpapers and 20th-century decorative arts, she did not do particularly well. She said she expected to do much better at the Palm Beach International Art and Antiques Fair, which opens today and runs through Feb. 9.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A preening pintail drake, circa 1915, by A. Elmer Crowell, set a record for an American waterfowl decoy. (Christie's) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); BIRDS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%); SOTHEBY'S (85%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (58%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



958 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 3290 words

HEADLINE: POP AND JAZZ GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times of noteworthy pop and jazz concerts in the New York metropolitan region this weekend. * denotes a highly recommended concert.

* ANTIBALAS, SUGARMAN 3, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111. Antibalas gives a New York makeover to Fela Kuti's Afro-beat, a Nigerian funk propelled by burly saxophones, fierce percussion and righteous anger, by updating both the funk and the political messages. Regular local appearances keep tightening the band, and it's a show just watching more than a dozen musicians cram themselves onto a club stage and still find room to dance. Sugarman 3 sets out to recreate 1960's and 70's funk. Tomorrow night at 9; admission is $12 (Jon Pareles).

* JOE ARROYO, Copacabana, 560 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-2672. Joe Arroyo, who's from Colombia, mixes local and pan-American rhythms into exuberant salsa that's conscious of African, American Indian, Caribbean and jazz roots. In a voice that holds a raw, rural cry, he takes on social issues as well as the ups and downs of romance. Tonight after 10, with Doble Filo opening; tomorrow night after 10, with Son de Azucar opening. Admission is $20, or $30 and a two-drink minimum for table reservations (Pareles).

* "AS OF NOW: TOSHIKO AKIYOSHI AND MARIA SCHNEIDER," Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500. Two new pieces commissioned by Jazz at Lincoln Center, and both are big-band works. Ms. Akiyoshi, who was born in Manchuria, has been playing jazz since the early 1950's; she's been a New Yorker since the early 80's and a fixture on the modern big-band circuit. Her compositions are rich with the influences of Gil Evans, Thad Jones and Mel Lewis. But her music is also distinguished by touches that come from her culture and her own individual way of writing, and this weekend's piece will feature the Japanese taiko drummer Eitetsu Hayashi. Ms. Schneider's work also comes from the Evans-Jones-Lewis line; she's easily the best new composer of that stripe, turning out lush, harmonically complex and idea-rich records like "Allegresse" (Enja). Tonight and tomorrow at 8; tickets: $25 to $45 (Ben Ratliff).

ASHFORD AND SIMPSON, Apollo Theater, 253 West 125th Street, Harlem, (212) 749-5838. Nick Ashford and Valerie Simpson have a songwriting career that stretches back to Ray Charles's "Let's Go Get Stoned," and through the decades they have infused love songs with gospel certainty, writing hits that include "You're All I Need to Get By," "Ain't Nothing Like the Real Thing" and "I'm Every Woman." As a performing duo, they praise long-term love in their own hits, like "Solid." They're headlining this Black History Month concert, a benefit for the programs of the Office of Black Ministry of the Archdiocese of New York. Dancers, a chamber orchestra and a high school choir are also performing. Tomorrow night at 8; tickets are $23 to $123 (Pareles).

* BEAUSOLEIL, Community Theater, 100 South Street, Morristown, N.J., (973) 539-8008. Michael Doucet's band, Beausoleil, is the Cajun revival incarnate, determined both to preserve and extend bayou traditions. Mr. Doucet learned the scratch and drone of his fiddle style from the masters of Cajun and Creole music, and he's equally at home playing an old-fashioned two-step or rowdy swamp rock. Tomorrow night at 8; tickets are $28 to $42 (Pareles).

* BONGA, D. D. JACKSON, LUCKY NGEMA, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400. The civil wars that tore apart Angola left behind famine and unexploded mines. They also left music that mixes sorrow and sweetness with a danceable lilt: the semba, an Angolan relative of the Afro-Brazilian samba. Bonga, whose thoughtful, husky voice carries tidings of peace, hope and history, has been one of Angola's most important musicians since the 1970's. He is headlining a benefit concert for Action Against Hunger's clean-water program in Angola. The event also includes the probing jazz pianist D. D. Jackson, South African music by Lucky Ngema, a band featuring musicians from "The Lion King" and a performance by the Dunia Dance Theater with the choreographer Harold George, who is from Sierra Leone. Sunday at 5 p.m.; tickets are $26 to $136 (Pareles).

CORY BRANAN, Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700. Cory Branan, from Memphis, has women on his mind throughout his debut album, "The Hell You Say" (Madjack). His songs, which recall his various crushes, are backed by raw-boned country rock or stripped-down acoustic guitar, with a blunt economy that hints at both Steve Earle and Loudon Wainwright III. Sunday night at 10, with the Blank Stares at 7, the Spoils at 8 and the Newborn Naturals at 9; tickets are $8 (Pareles).

* JAMES BROWN, B. B. King Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144. One of the most influential musicians of the 20th century, James Brown redefined dance music as a precisely calibrated sex machine. He may not do as many splits as he did in his physical prime, but he's still one of the most unpredictable performers around. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; tickets are $80 in advance, $85 at the door (Pareles).

* BURNSIDE PROJECT, Luxx, 265 Grand Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-1000. An intriguing group that emphasizes the odd angles in its deceptively gentle songs by adding electronic noises and rhythms. This concert celebrates the release of the group's new album, "The Network, the Circuits, the Streams, the Harmonies" (Bar/None). Tomorrow night at 8, with Brasilia and Heala Monster & Tarsier; admission is $10 (Kelefa Sanneh).

VINCENT CHANCEY, Sista's Place, 456 Nostrand Avenue (entrance on Jefferson Avenue), Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, (718) 398-1766. Mr. Chancey is one of jazz's rare French hornists and tends to be involved in interesting projects related to the experimental side of the music. Tomorrow night at 9 and 10:30; admission is $15 (Ratliff).

CODY CHESNUTT, S.O.B.'s (Sounds of Brazil), 204 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940. The rock songwriter Cody Chesnutt has all the chutzpah he needs, slinging his guitar and delivering sermons between songs; someday, perhaps, his songs will live up to his self-image. Tonight at 8; tickets are $12 (Pareles).

JAY COLLINS QUARTET, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063. Mr. Collins, an agile, persuasive young saxophonist, has split his time between jazz and Latin bands in New York; he's a bandleader, too, in several different guises, including singer-songwriter. This is more a straight jazz quartet. Tonight at 9 and 10:30; cover charge is $12, $10 for members (Ratliff).

SANDRA COLLINS, Centro-Fly, 45 West 21st Street, Flatiron District, (212) 627-7770. The floating chords, bouncing-octave basslines and sudden rushing crescendos of trance may be one of electronica's most obvious formulas, but Sandra Collins uses them to give dancers exactly what they came to hear. Tomorrow night after 10, with Chris Fortier warming up; admission is $20 (Pareles).

OLU DARA, MADELEINE PEYROUX, the Bottom Line, 15 West Fourth Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 228-6300 or (212) 502-3471. Olu Dara is a cornetist and guitarist from Mississippi who has soaked up jazz, blues, funk and a world of vamps and rhythms over a long career. He turns them all into good-natured, crowd-pleasing grooves that carry Afrocentric lore from herbal healing to juke-joint etiquette. Before Norah Jones, there was Madeleine Peyroux, a jazz-tinged singer whose voice has a touch of Billie Holiday. Tonight at 7:30 and 10:30; tickets are $22.50 (Pareles).

EITHER/ORCHESTRA WITH JOHN TCHICAI, Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501. This nearly 20-year-old big band from Boston, blending jazz nostalgia of the 1950's and 60's with rock and a fizzy, prankish sense of humor, brings in a guest: the Danish-Congolese saxophonist John Tchicai, whose appearance on albums by John Coltrane and Archie Shepp made his name among the 1960's free-jazz movement. Sunday night at 8 and 10; admission is $12 (Ratliff).

* SONNY FORTUNE-GARY BARTZ-CECIL McBEE-BILLY HART, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, above Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626. An impressive lineup of musicians who have enlivened jazz in New York for quite some time, but their special period was the late 1970's and early 80's, when the energy of free jazz was reconnecting with lyricism and traditional technique. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, 10 and midnight; Sunday at 8 and 10 p.m. Cover charge is $20, with a $10 minimum all nights (Ratliff).

GLASSEATER, the Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006. Yet another band playing simple, tuneful punk rock songs, although Glasseater is less slaphappy than many of its contemporaries: on "Glasseater" (Fearless), released last summer, the tempos are rarely breakneck, and the singer Jason Calleiro has a disconcerting habit: he croons. Sunday night at 6:30, with Beautiful Mistake and Northstar; admission is $8 (Sanneh).

* DAVID GRAY, Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741. The raspy edge of David Gray's voice brings a startling immediacy to songs that might otherwise sound familiar. His reflections on love and longing are rooted in Bob Dylan and Van Morrison but renewed by nerve and passion. Tonight at 8; tickets are $25 to $45 (Pareles).

* FRED HERSCH TRIO, Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037. Mr. Hersch, the pianist, performs sets that are unusually wide stylistically. This new trio -- with Drew Gress and Nasheet Waits -- navigates the extraordinary ballads that are Mr. Hersch's greatest strength, as well as more helter-skelter, fragmented pieces using the rhythm section's full ingenuity. Tonight through Sunday night at 9 and 11, with a 12:30 set tomorrow; cover charge is $20 tonight and tomorrow night, $15 on Sunday, with a $10 minimum all nights (Ratliff).

GARLAND JEFFREYS, Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 539-8778 or (212) 239-6200. The songwriter Garland Jeffreys is a longtime voice of multiethnic New York, mixing rock, reggae and touches of everything from doo-wop to samba. Along with love songs and reminiscences of running "Wild in the Streets," he doesn't flinch from tough topics like racism. Tonight at 9; admission is $25 (Pareles).

* FREEDY JOHNSTON, MARK EITZEL, Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, at Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236. Freedy Johnston's finely turned country-rock songs have carefully balanced melodies that he sings in a winsome tenor. But for all their classic symmetry, they're the confessions of some desperate, unsavory and unbalanced characters. Depression is Mark Eitzel's element; as leader of the American Music Club and through a solo career, he has anatomized melancholy down to the molecular level. It's easy to believe him when he sings, "I'm tired to the bone of always telling you goodbye." Tonight at 9, with Amy Miles opening; admission is $12 (Pareles).

JUDGE JULES, Arc, 6 Hubert Street, near Hudson Street, TriBeCa, (212) 226-9212. The popular London-based D.J. comes to town for a night of straightforward, energetic dance music. Tomorrow night at 10; admission is $25 (Sanneh).

AL KOOPER, the Bottom Line, 15 West Fourth Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 228-6300 or (212) 502-3471. The keyboardist Al Kooper has a resume full of unlikely connections. He was a founder of the Blues Project and Blood, Sweat and Tears; the organ player who helped define the sound of folk rock when he backed Bob Dylan on "Like a Rolling Stone"; and the producer of Lynyrd Skynyrd. He has always been happiest on the cusp of blues, jazz and pop. He's celebrating his 59th birthday with a solo show. Tomorrow night at 8; tickets are $25 (Pareles).

CHARLES LLOYD QUINTET, Blue Note, 131 West Fourth Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592. Mr. Lloyd has had moments of extraordinary playing in recent years, and an association with ECM Records over the last decade has been good for him, positioning him as a modern master as he takes John Coltrane's influence and refashions it with new graces. This band includes the guitarist John Abercrombie, the pianist Geri Allen, the bassist Bob Hurst and the drummer Eric Harland. Tonight through Sunday night at 8 and 10:30; cover charge at the tables, $25 with a $5 minimum; $15 cover at the bar, no minimum (Ratliff).

* JAMES MERCER, ROSIE THOMAS, SAM BEAM AND SAM JAYNE, the Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006. This appealing tour brings together four performers affiliated with Sub Pop Records; it's yet another sign that indie rock is increasingly dominated by singer-songwriters, not bands. Rosie Thomas records using her own name; James Mercer records with the Shins; Sam Beam records as Iron & Wine; and Sam Jayne records with Love as Laughter. Tomorrow night at 8; admission is $10 (Sanneh).

* MULGREW MILLER TRIO, Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662. One of the great mainstream jazz experiences of the 90's was hearing Mulgrew Miller on piano, accompanying the great drummer Tony Williams, smoothly negotiating the restive, knockabout energy of Mr. Williams's vision. Mr. Miller applies himself to the present situation, mixing standard romanticism with Monk-like hesitations and changing harmonies. Tonight and tomorrow night at 9, 11, and 12:30; cover charge is $18 (Ratliff).

* BUTCH MORRIS'S CONDUCTION 131, heated tent in Columbus Park, Bayard and Mulberry Streets, Chinatown, (646) 456-7361. He never stops: Mr. Morris has been performing his abstract and exotically beautiful conductions (conducted improvisations) all over the world, and even in New York, all over town, with completely different groups of musicians. This one, titled "The Year of the Ram," celebrates the Chinese New Year and includes a number of Asian and African improvisers living in New York, among them the oud player Tarik Benbrahim and the pipa player Min Xiao-Fen. Tomorrow at 11 a.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m.; free (Ratliff).

* MY MORNING JACKET, CANYON, Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700. My Morning Jacket, from Louisville, Ky., plays richly wistful songs that emerge from somewhere between Neil Young and Merseybeat. Amid garage-rock drumbeats and reverbed guitar, Jim James plaintively wonders, "Why does my mind go to bits every time they play that song?" Canyon's songs brood amid stately chords and floating pedal-steel guitar. Tomorrow night, with Stewart Lewis at 7:15, Reed Foehl at 7:45, Canyon at 9:30 and My Morning Jacket at 10:30; tickets are $10 (Pareles).

MIKE AND MARY RAFFERTY, Blarney Star, 43 Murray Street, TriBeCa, (212) 732-2873. A father-and-daughter team plays Irish traditional music with a repertory centered on East Galway. Mike Rafferty plays flute and uileann pipes; his daughter Mary, on flute and button accordion, is also a member of Cherish the Ladies. Tonight at 9 and 10:30; $12 admission covers both sets (Pareles).

* SKELETON KEY, Village Underground, 130 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 777-7745. Skeleton Key's music recalls the pregentrified Lower East Side. The band writes snappy, tightly wound riffs that pack the musicianly games of progressive rock into the terse time frame of punk. Stereobate and Heston Rifle are the opening acts. Tonight at 8; admission is $10 (Pareles).

TONY TRISCHKA, Makor, 35 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 601-1000. Bluegrass and jazz, two styles that make ample room for instrumental improvisation, have long been mingling in the music of Tony Trischka, the daring and quick-fingered banjoist who fomented what came to be known as "new acoustic music." Tomorrow night at 8:30; tickets are $12 (Pareles).

* CHUCHO VALDES, CHARLIE HADEN'S NOCTURNE, New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888) 466-5722. Mr. Valdes, the Cuban pianist, returns to New York after being denied entry to the United States in September. He is a rare musician, a strong pianist steeped in Cuban music and jazz, whose strong, virtuosic hands can stun you and instantly set you inside the music. His group plays on a double bill with Charlie Haden's Nocturne, a bewitching quartet including the Cuban pianist Gonzalo Rubalcaba, whose repertory is made of reworked Cuban and Mexican boleros. Tomorrow night at 8; tickets are $12 to $48 (Ratliff).

* CHUCHO VALDES AND ROBERTA GAMBARINI, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, below Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063. When Mr. Valdes blows through town (see above), he tends to show up in several places over the course of a week, either as a casual sit-in guest somewhere or as a featured attraction at the Jazz Gallery, a club that has always been friendly to him. Here he will perform duets with the Italian jazz singer Roberta Gambarini. Sunday night at 9 and 10:30; admission is $15 (Ratliff).

* WACO BROTHERS, SADIES, Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700; Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 798-0406. Jon Langford of the Mekons indulges his country side even more strongly in the Waco Brothers, where he trades off lead vocals with Dean Schlabowske and ricochets between revolution and beer-soaked self-pity while letting his electric guitar blare. He has also just made an album with the Sadies, a Toronto roots-rock band, that's a little calmer about disappointments large and small, personal and historical. At the Mercury Lounge tonight, Mr. Langford and the Sadies at 8:30, the Sadies on their own at 9:30 and the Waco Brothers at 10:30; tickets are $12. At Maxwell's on Sunday night at 8:30; tickets are $8 in advance, $10 Sunday (Pareles).

* HEZEKIAH WALKER AND THE LOVE FELLOWSHIP CHOIR, Radio City Music Hall, (212) 247-4777. Hezekiah Walker is a Brooklyn preacher whose Love Fellowship Tabernacle Choir borrows freely from hip-hop and R&B. He is to be joined by a number of leading gospel-influenced acts, including CeCe Winans, Love Unlimited and Michelle Williams (from Destiny's Child). The best (and funniest) performance may come from John P. Kee, whose New Life Community Choir expands simple praise songs into tragicomic operas. Tomorrow night at 8; tickets are $25 to $50 (Sanneh).

BUSTER WILLIAMS'S SOMETHIN' MORE QUARTET, T. S. MONK SEXTET, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121. Two straight-ahead jazz groups, one led by a bassist, one by a drummer; Mr. Williams's band includes Steve Wilson, George Colligan and Lenny White. Tonight at 8, 10:30 and 11:30; tomorrow night at 8, 10:30 and midnight; and Sunday night at 8 and 10. Cover charge is $25, with a $10 minimum for all nights (Ratliff).

YEAH NO, Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501. A relatively new band cooked up by four important parts of the downtown jazz scene: the saxophonist and clarinetist Chris Speed, the trumpeter Cuong Vu (who has recently been playing with Pat Metheny), the bassist Skuli Sverrisson and the drummer Jim Black. Tomorrow at midnight; admission is $7 (Ratliff).

* MIGUEL ZENON QUARTET, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063. "Looking Ahead" (Fresh Sound), the recent album by Mr. Zenon, the young Puerto Rican alto saxophonist, was a stunner, full of shifting instrumentation and composition ideas; it was one of several recent albums that proclaimed a major shift in Latin jazz. He performs this weekend with his regular band: Luis Perdomo on piano, Hans Glawischnig on bass, Antonio Sanchez on drums. Tomorrow night at 9 and 10:30; admission is $12, $10 for members (Ratliff).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chucho Valdes is in Newark tomorrow, and at the Jazz Gallery in the South Village on Sunday. (Associated Press); Jon Langford plays two gigs with the Waco Brothers and the Sadies. (Rahav Segev) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (90%); SONG WRITING (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) NIGERIA (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



959 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: TV WEEKEND; 
Crime Wave With Shades of the Past

BYLINE:  By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

 BODY:
TWO entirely different new network crime shows are scheduled opposite each other on Sunday night.
 One is a remake of a revered 50's cop show. The other is set in a criminal milieu never before showcased on network television. 
 The lead actor in one is best known for playing a bumbling dad on a Fox sitcom. The other features a cast of young, newly discovered Hispanic actors. 
One is taut, suspenseful and fresh. The other is not.
On ABC, "Dragnet," Dick Wolf's homage to the series that starred Jack Webb, is surprisingly engrossing. It could easily pass for yet another satellite in Mr. Wolf's "Law & Order" universe, except that the original "Dragnet" was so clearly the wellspring from which all those other shows were wrought. "Dragnet" is the series Mr. Wolf was born to remake.
NBC's "Kingpin," a "Sopranos"-like saga about a Mexican drug lord and his family, is also a homage of sorts, but not nearly as inspired. To deflect comparisons to "The Sopranos" on HBO and perhaps to justify the characters to a law-abiding audience, David Mills ("N.Y.P.D. Blue," "Homicide: Life on the Street") relies so heavily on classic movies -- "The Godfather," "Scarface," even "Married to the Mob" -- that the series has very little voice of its own.
The music on "Kingpin" is hip, the cinematography cool, the atmosphere gritty, but the parts do not add up to a whole.
To put it another way, one amputated finger on "Dragnet" is three times as memorable as an entire human leg fed to a hungry tiger on "Kingpin."
"Dragnet" begins with the signature theme (dum-dee-DUM-dum) and badge No. 714, as well as the old prologue, slightly reworded: "The story you are about to see is inspired by actual events. The names have been changed to protect the innocent."
The first terse words of the voice-over by the new Sgt. Joe Friday ("It was Monday. It was overcast in Los Angeles.") also stir old memories, but from then on, the show asserts its own style. Ed O'Neill plays his Sergeant Friday hardboiled, of course, but he does not say, "Just the facts, ma'am," and he is not quite as laconic. He even speaks a few words of Russian to an emigre pimp who is a murder suspect.
Television has experienced double-digit crime inflation since the real "Dragnet" went off the air in 1970. In the 50's Jack Webb's Joe Friday looked momentarily disgusted when he uncovered a high school smut ring; a decomposed, brutally raped corpse gnawed by coyotes barely fazes this Joe Friday. Feeling is left to his young partner, Frank Smith (Ethan Embry), who looks like a dented Luke Perry. Fortunately, Mr. Wolf pledged to stay true to the original -- and his own "Law & Order" edict -- and ban personal subplots. Asked at a recent television conference how much viewers would learn about the detectives' private lives, Mr. Wolf replied, laconically, "You'll know as much as you know about Jesse L. Martin," referring to the actor who plays Detective Ed Green on "Law & Order."
Some of the best material on "Kingpin" lies in the mundane workings of the drug trade, from illegal border crossing to the shabby, assembly-line cocaine labs. (One would have to be very jaded not to enjoy the scene in the second episode when a Mexican Army tank fires on a lab and blows it to bits.)
The obsessively dedicated drug enforcement agent Delia Flores, played with a flat, affectless voice and troubled eyes by Angela Alvarado Rosa ("Boss of Bosses"), steals every scene she is in. She and a few of the more unusual conspiracies laced into the plot are worth watching.
It is the family drama that feels forced. Yancey Arias plays Miguel Cadena, a businessman battling to control the family drug operation, egged on by his cold, scheming American wife, a lawyer played by Sheryl Lee (Laura on "Twin Peaks"). Like Tony Soprano, Miguel is ambivalent about his life.
His angst is a tougher sell, and not solely because Americans are more comfortable with the Italian Mafia and all its familiar myths than with Latin drug lords. It is hard to imagine the uneducated, low-class Tony Soprano amounting to much outside the family business, but as imagined by Mr. Mills, the handsome, Stanford-educated and classy Miguel Cadena could have walked away and become a corporate chief executive or secretary general of the United Nations and still fulfill his wife's nagging ambitions.
"The Sopranos" upset some Italian-American organizations, which complained that the show perpetuated unfair stereotypes. "Kingpin" may do the same, though that charge seems silly. The problem is not the depiction of Mexican-Americans, but the show's depiction of drug lords. It goes without saying that drug lords are arrogant, brutal and ruthless, but surely they do not all walk and talk like Al Pacino.
In its first season, "The Sopranos" stripped down its characters' psyches slowly, layer by layer. The ratings system that drives networks is less forgiving, and the writers rush to present full-blown caricatures, from the Lady Macbeth wife to the mad-as-Nero heir apparent.
The normally astute Jeff Zucker, president of NBC Entertainment, made matters worse by dismissing complaints that his network was copying HBO.
"Where some see 'Sopranos,' I see Shakespeare," Mr. Zucker said. By that measure, "Joe Millionaire" is not a sendup of "The Bachelor"; it is an updated version of "The Tempest."
If network constraints give "Kingpin" a false note, the constraints of following the "Dragnet" formula free Mr. Wolf to be his true self: a prefeminist.
Female characters have always been an interesting weakness in Mr. Wolf's shows. He had none on the original "Law & Order." In 1993, NBC forced him to cast S. Epatha Merkerson in place of Dann Florek as detective squad chief and Jill Hennessy instead of Richard Brooks as assistant prosecutor to lure more female viewers. It worked, and the two "Law & Order" spinoff shows, "S.V.U." and "Criminal Intent," have female detectives, though on the latter show the woman is more an admiring sidekick than an equal partner. Since 1994 Mr. Wolf has always used female prosecutors on "Law & Order," and they all fit a misogynist view of women in command: admirable, not likable. They are also all of a type: tall and unapproachably beautiful, like Hitchcock's leading ladies.
On "Dragnet," Sergeant Friday reports to a female captain, but his is not the wise, motherly leader played by Ms. Merkerson on "Law & Order." Lindsay Crouse, a film and theater actress known for playing intelligent, wrongheaded career women ("House of Games"), is skittishly in charge. Sergeant Friday has to correct her mistakes and bad calls and patiently steer her back to his interpretation of the facts.
Oddly, however, "Dragnet" seems less retro than the ultra-hip "Kingpin," and it is just as violent. That may explain Mr. Wolf's confidence. He told reporters at a television conference in Los Angeles this month that viewers would make "a very clear choice whether they want to watch the most iconic cop in the history of American television or a warm family drama about the drug dealers killing your children."
Those who want neither can turn to a more cerebral crime show on Sunday with "Foyle's War" on "Masterpiece Theater," a new four-part series by Britain's ITV in the tradition of "Inspector Morse." Foyle, played by Michael Kitchen, is a police detective in the small town of Hastings in 1940 who wants to join the war effort but is instead assigned to investigate provincial crimes.
The first episode, "The German Woman," is set around the forced internment of German nationals after war broke out, but it also lingers, like "Gosford Park" and "Remains of the Day," on the injustices of the British class system at the time.
These whodunits are not particularly taxing, but "Foyle's War" brings together the three best things about England: murder mysteries, World War II and class resentment. Or, to put it more succinctly: the series also stars Edward Fox.

Law & Disorder

The new crime series reviewed:

"KINGPIN," NBC, Sunday and Tuesday nights at 10, Eastern and Pacific times; 9, Central time.

"DRAGNET," ABC, Sunday nights at 10, Eastern and Pacific times; 9, Central time.

"EXXONMOBIL MASTERPIECE THEATER: FOYLE'S WAR," on most PBS stations Sunday nights (check local listings).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above left, Yancey Arias in "Kingpin" on NBC; above, Ed O'Neill and Ethan Embry as the detectives in the new "Dragnet" on ABC; and left, Michael Kitchen in "Foyle's War" on PBS. (Clockwise from top left, NBC; ABC; Greenlit Productions)(pg. E1); Ed O'Neill, right, and Ethan Embry as Los Angeles detectives in ABC's modern take on "Dragnet." (Scott Humber/ABC)(pg. E28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MURDER (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); FILM (77%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (72%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (65%) TELEVISION; REVIEWS 

PERSON: STANLEY, ALESSANDRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

TITLE: KINGPIN (TV PROGRAM); DRAGNET (TV PROGRAM); FOYLE'S WAR (TV PROGRAM); MASTERPIECE THEATER (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



960 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1794 words

HEADLINE: THEATER GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy Broadway and Off Broadway shows this weekend. Approximate running times are in parentheses. * denotes a highly recommended show.+ means discounted tickets were available at the Theater Development Fund's TKTS booth for performances last Friday and Saturday nights.++ means discounted tickets were available at the TKTS booth for last Friday night only.+++ means discounted tickets were available at the TKTS booth for performances last Saturday night only.

Broadway

* "LA BOHEME." Baz Luhrmann's rapturous reimagining of Puccini's opera of love in a garret turns out to be both the coolest and the warmest show in town, an enchanted mixture of self-conscious artistry and emotional richness. Opera purists should know that this production is no slice of wiseguy revisionism. What Mr. Luhrmann and his extraordinary production designer, Catherine Martin, have done is to find the visual equivalent for the sensual beauty and vigor of the score. The stars of this "Boheme" may be as pretty as Calvin Klein models, but their voices, for the most part, match their faces. And while Mr. Luhrmann and Ms. Martin have brought a defiantly stagy sense of theatricality to the cinema with films like "Romeo and Juliet" and "Moulin Rouge," they have reversed the equation with "La Boheme," bringing to the theater a seductive cinematic flow. The three rotating sets of principals are, to a person, sexy, vital and utterly committed to the moment (2:30). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $41.25 to $101.25; a limited number of $20 rush tickets are available at the box office two hours before the performance (Ben Brantley).

*++ "TARTUFFE." The look of love beams like a laser from the eyes of Brian Bedford in this handsome, absorbing revival of Moliere's comedy from the Roundabout Theater Company. As the fatuous Orgon, the bourgeois gentilhomme who takes the serpent named Tartuffe (Henry Goodman) into the bosom of his family, the truly wondrous Mr. Bedford presents a beatific study in denial, a man whose midlife crisis takes the form of a besotted pursuit of spiritual enlightenment. While guilty of a few instances of forced comic shtick, Mr. Goodman, who suggests John Barrymore being sinister, cannily plays the religious charlatan Tartuffe as a Svengali who has thoroughly and contemptuously hypnotized his victim. The rest of the agreeable cast, which includes J. Smith-Cameron and Kathryn Meisle, isn't on the same virtuosic level. But John Beatty's period sets are exceedingly good-looking. And Mr. Bedford and Mr. Goodman turn out to be the most arrestingly odd couple on Broadway this season (2:15). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $25 to $90 (Brantley).

Off Broadway

*+ "BEDBOUND." Words are oxygen for the breath-starved characters in Enda Walsh's whiskey shot of a play. For the seedy father and sickly daughter who are the sole inhabitants of this brusque, exciting new drama, language has become nothing short of a basic biological function. As they work their frantic, fumbling ways through narratives of their lives, these unlikely, reluctant bedmates sometimes choke and gag on the words that spew and sputter out of them like blood from a freshly opened vein. But as the girl makes clear, silence equals panic; words are all that keeps them alive. "Bedbound" sent happy shivers through London critics when it opened at the Royal Court Theater there last year, and the New York production, directed by Mr. Walsh, doesn't disappoint. Acted with mesmerizing energy and precision by Brian F. O'Byrne and Jenna Lamia, "Bedbound" emerges as a genuine and bracing original among the already well-stocked shelves of word-drunk Irish plays (1:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, (212) 727-2737. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $35-$40 (Brantley).

++ "COMEDIANS." Few sights are more painful for an audience than a stand-up comic who can't get a laugh. Yet Trevor Griffiths's 1975 play, which has been given an intense and earnest revival by the New Group, insists that you experience that pain as a succession of would-be professional comics disastrously try out their routines. The show asks you to consider coldly what you might normally laugh at and why. As one of the play's characters puts it in all sincerity: "Comedy is medicine." And this story of a night class for comedians holds a mirror up to theatergoers and asks them to confront the sick souls therein. As such plays can be, it is intelligent, daring and, in the long run, less abrasive than tedious, like a jittery lecture at high volume. This despite the presence of a talent-rich, hard-working ensemble led by Jim Dale, Raul Esparza and David McCallum (2:45). Beckett, 410 West 42nd Street, (212) 279-4200. Beginning Wednesday, the production moves to the Acorn Theater, same address and box office number as the Beckett Theater. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. No performance this Sunday and Tuesday. Tickets: $35 to $50 (Brantley).

+ "COOKIN' AT THE COOKERY." When the blues singer Alberta Hunter died in 1984, she had been working up until her last few months. In a remarkable coda to a remarkable life, she had come out of a self-imposed retirement from the stage -- two decades in which she worked as a hospital scrub nurse on Roosevelt Island -- to perform at the Cookery in Greenwich Village. It was a six-week gig that turned into an indefinitely extended one. That was in 1977, when she was 82. This is the starting point for Marion J. Caffey's feel-good pocket musical for two lively actresses and a stoic four-man band. It isn't terribly dramatic or even melodramatic, but it is staged with clever economy, and it has a worthy subject and a heart of gold. The music, of course, is terrific, and the performances of Ann Duquesnay and Debra Walton are full of warmth and verve (1:55). Theater 3, 311 West 43rd Street, (212) 279-4200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $45 (Bruce Weber).

"JULIUS CAESAR." Like a lot of intelligent people, Shakespeare was amazed at the paradox of political speech: that it is demonstrably misleading and that people believe it anyway. This is the bizarre trope of human nature that "Julius Caesar" deals with especially. And because politics is never without purveyors of egregious, self-serving lies, the play is perpetually relevant. Though it doesn't have the psychological depth of "Hamlet," it can really make you outraged. Outrage appears to be very much on the mind of the director, Karin Coonrod, whose "Caesar" reads as a protest against the Republican oligarchy in Washington. From the opening scenes in this modern-dress production, the director uses the costuming and manner of her actors to evoke the contemporary American nexus of conservative political power among the government, the military and the corporate elite. It's an overall approach that attenuates the grand debate over the future of Rome, making the usurping senators seem like gossip-mongers in the halls of Enron; from the outset, this is a conspiracy more venal than noble. And it serves the show well at first as sly, wicked satire. Ultimately, however, the diminishment of the characters for partisan purposes doesn't serve the play, and the production descends into bombastic melodrama (2:00). Lucille Lortell Theater, 121 Christopher Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 7:30 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 7:30; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $55 (Weber).

* "PANIC! (HOW TO BE HAPPY!)" Every winter the director Richard Foreman reassembles his idea of the interior of the human mind in ornate, puzzlelike dream houses of sets. And every winter pilgrims of the avant-garde show up for a dose of senses-scrambling spectacle, much as other people attend the Christmas show at Radio City Music Hall. As usual, Mr. Foreman portrays existence as a slapstick farce of exasperation. Pleasure-free human eroticism is given comically literal-minded representation here, in ways that suggest the work of an overzealous sex education teacher. The impeccably precise principal players, dressed up like the cast of a nightmare version of "Pirates of Penzance," move and speak with the mannered zeal of automa tons in search of their inner humanity. That Mr. Foreman continues to extract such joyous showmanship from his premise that life is futile remains one of the miracles of contemporary New York theater (1:15). Ontological Theater at St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 533-4650. Tuesdays, Thursdays, Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays at 8 p.m. Tickets: $20; $15 student tickets available with valid identification (Brantley).

* "TWELFTH NIGHT" AND "UNCLE VANYA." A very winning pair of losers dominate these compelling, exotically twinned productions from the Donmar Warehouse of London, bringing new refinement to the popular art of disgruntledness. As embodied by Simon Russell Beale, perhaps the greatest stage actor of his generation, the ambitionless title character of Chekhov's "Uncle Vanya" and the ambition-riddled Malvolio of Shakespeare's "Twelfth Night" unearth provocatively mixed layers of comedy and tragedy from what it means to be unlucky in love. Mr. Russell Beale is by no means the only reason to visit the plays, which run in repertory through March 9. The productions offer New York audiences a rare chance to see a first-rate ensemble -- which also features Emily Watson, Helen McCrory and Mark Strong -- working fluently in two entirely different theatrical idioms. With this "Vanya" and "Twelfth Night," among the most coveted tickets in London last year, the director Sam Mendes (who recently stepped down as the Donmar's artistic director) has shaped a valedictory ode to the varied possibilities of interpreting classics. The "Vanya" is a goosebump-making triumph of in-the-moment naturalism, with superb performances from everyone involved. If the pleasures of this "Twelfth Night" are more fitful, with a production that sacrifices authentic feeling to conceptual stylishness, there's a gratifying boldness in its very differences (2:45 each). Brooklyn Academy of Music, Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100. Tuesdays through Fridays at 7:30 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 7:30 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $30, $55 and $75 (Brantley).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (72%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (72%); RELIGION (60%); THEATER (58%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (57%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



961 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: DRIVING; 
Buy a New Lexus, Get a Massage

BYLINE:  By PHIL PATTON 

 BODY:
"THE new blue" is what dealers call the bright, almost electric hue of the cylindrical tower and sine-wave-shaped entrances of hundreds of Honda dealerships around the country. Honda's new blue buildings catch the eye of the passing motorist as quickly as the distinctive look and logos of McDonald's, the Gap or Exxon, and the company would like to make its signature just as familiar as theirs.
 Honda of Pocatello, Idaho, not far from the giant styrofoam potato at the nearby Potato Expo in Blackfoot, is the visual kin of Planet Honda in Clifton, N.J., built on the site of a diner seen in the first season of "The Sopranos." 
 The 21st century changes in auto dealerships go deeper than color schemes. Inside the $4.5 million Planet Honda, which is owned by Timothy Ciasulli, soothing New Age music and a fragrance devised by an aromatherapist fill the air. (The scent has been described as "a proprietary blend of essential oils that create a sense of abundance and joy.") There are a coffee bar, a large video screen on a wall and a children's play area with books and plastic toys. 
Some independent dealers may resist, stubbornly clinging to the old aesthetic of flapping pennants and screaming neon, but almost every major automaker has begun to push and cajole its dealers -- which as a rule are independent businesses -- to refurbish their dealership buildings, adding more interesting designs and more appealing surroundings. And many dealers are not only embracing the carmakers' suggested upgrades but going beyond them with an array of creature comforts to lure and pamper prospective buyers and repair-shop customers. Some are even adding show-biz touches.
In Miami, there is Planet Dodge, wholly unrelated to Planet Honda in the business sense but clearly connected in spirit. "We give the whole Ritz-Carlton treatment," said its manager, Carlos Rodriguez. "A concierge greets you by name."
The Collection in Coral Gables, Fla., sells Ferraris, Maseratis and other luxury cars in a building designed by Massimo Iosa Ghini. It has a concierge, a cafe and a boutique that sells Ferrari wallets and Maserati datebooks. Its owner, Ken Gorin, compares it to a luxury hotel.
The Manhattan Auto Group, now under renovation at 11th Avenue and 55th Street, gives each of several Ford-owned brands its own "brand boutique," said Gary Flom, its chief executive. There is a rock-climbing wall in the Ford truck area, and a track on the roof will allow drivers to test Land Rovers on cobblestones. 
Masseurs and manicurists will be on call when Fletcher Jones Lexus in Las Vegas opens its elaborate new dealership early next year. "As price and quality levels rise, customers demand more." said Bob McCrary, the company's general manager. In the service department's waiting room, a wireless network will allow customers to retrieve e-mail on laptops or digital assistants. "In today's society people don't want to just sit around watching 'The Price Is Right,' " Mr. McCrary said.
Well out in front of the trend toward a different kind of dealership is Michael Graves of Dallas, a self-described behavioral designer who has trademarked the term "autotainment" to describe his concept of incorporating flashy theme-park elements and creature comforts at dealerships. (No, he is not Michael Graves the Princeton architect, but F. Michael Graves. The "F" is for Ferdinand, not a name a child growing up in Texas might want to use.)
This Michael Graves is the force behind the innovations not only at Planet Dodge but also at Planet Ford, north of Houston, a $12 million, 32-acre complex that may well be the epitome of the new dealership style. At Planet Ford a huge globe rises from a reflecting pool, and employees in golf carts greet arriving customers with bottled water. Inside, service department teams wear uniforms like those on Nascar pit crews, and buyers are handed the keys to their new cars amid flashing lights and noisy sound effects. 
Mr. Graves, 49, is an old hand in what he calls "the experience economy." "For Lisa Marie and Priscilla, I did the King's Tour at Graceland," he said. "I'm the first fresh idea in auto retailing in 70 years."
He has a rival, however, in Pavlik Design of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., the creator of Hummer dealerships that mimic Quonset huts and are highlighted by a 20-foot letter "H" made of steel girders. The name Hummer is painted on the roof, as if to allow identification by helicopters or jet fighters, and customers can take test drives on a rugged off-road course.
"It's an adult amusement park," said John Bergstrom, whose five-acre dealership in Milwaukee was the first with the new design. Fifty more are scheduled to be built.
More common in updated dealerships is a less flamboyant approach, based on a more restrained, softer sell than was customary in traditional outlets. Volkswagen, for example, is anticipating the arrival of new luxury models, the Touareg sport utility vehicle and Phaeton sedan, with dealerships based on a European market square and designed by Gensler & Palladia, a Detroit architectural firm. "You can't sell a luxury car in a dump," said Gerd Klauss, the chief executive of Volkswagen of America.
Porsche and its dealers have invested $30 million in newly minimalist designs, phasing out dealerships that were sometimes Germanic in the manner of a ski chalet, with high-pitched roofs and shingles. "We had one in Bellingham, Wash., that looked like an International House of Pancakes," said Rich Ford, the chief operating officer of Porsche North America.
Automakers often use incentives like free design services and a choice of floor plans, materials and furniture to get their dealerships to renovate. Sometimes they even provide some construction money, or they may reward cooperative dealers by sending them more of the hottest models.
Elegance ruled in the early days of auto retailing, and showrooms were like banks and hotels, with chandeliers and carpets. Then, as mass retailing replaced Main Street shopping and car dealers moved to the edges of town, the showrooms shrank behind vast lots where cars were displayed, like consumer goods on shelves, to sell themselves.
Today's fussier shoppers are pushing dealers back to a more elegant look, but treating customers well may also bring them back for service. "Service is the backbone of the dealership today," Mr. Graves said. "You can make money without it, but it's pretty hard."
But even when they succeed in persuading dealers to adopt cooler, more modern exteriors, automakers cannot completely suppress the shrill hard sell traditional in the car business. No glaring neon mars the new blue exterior of Planet Honda in Clifton, but on a wall inside, huge cursive letters spell out "Where buying a car is fun!" in glowing neon. It's blue -- the old blue.

CORNERING THE MARKET
Limestone Spells Cadillac. Or Is It Lincoln?
AUTOMAKERS want their dealers to abandon flapping pennants and generic showrooms. Here are some elements of the new dealership designs.

AUDI -- Brushed metal and winglike shapes suggesting the car's use of aluminum, imagery derived from the company's four-ring logo, and Quattro Cafes, named for Audi's all-wheel-drive system.

CADILLAC -- Richer woods, etched glass, limestone and more elegant furniture.

HONDA -- Distinctive logo and shade of blue.

HUMMER -- Military styling and off-road driving courses.

LAND ROVER -- Rugged tracks for customer road tests and a central space where customers can buy Land Rover clothing and sign up for Land Rover tours.

LINCOLN -- Entry portals of limestone and granite. Inside, granite pads for displaying new cars like sculpture. Waiting areas with Le Corbusier and Knoll chairs.

MITSUBISHI -- Glowing light pylons and a signature pyramid based on the company's logo of multiple triangles. Inside, light birch fixtures and computer kiosks.

PORSCHE -- Modern, metallic and Teutonically minimal.

SAAB -- Swedish modern architecture and teak.

VOLKSWAGEN -- High-ceilinged, open buildings with playrooms and Open Road Collection shops.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ANOTHER WORLD -- The huge globe at Planet Ford near Houston is part of a refurbishing trend that has added cafes, aromatherapy and theme-park touches to auto dealerships. (Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. F1); OUT OF MISCHIEF -- Planet Ford playroom.; HEAVENLY HOST -- Outer space is the theme at Planet Ford in Spring, Tex., but the signs are both earthbound and otherworldly. (Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); RETAILERS (86%); MASSAGE SERVICES (85%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); LUXURY GOODS (74%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (73%); MUSIC GENRES (68%); TOYS & GAMES (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%); EXECUTIVES (61%); MUSIC (53%); CHILDREN (51%); CLIMBING (50%) AUTOMOBILES 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (94%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (94%); HMC (NYSE) (94%); 7267 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%)

PERSON: PATTON, PHIL 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (59%); POCATELLO, ID, USA (57%); MIAMI, FL, USA (53%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (68%); TEXAS, USA (59%); IDAHO, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



962 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Europe Offers Plan to Fight Counterfeit Goods 

BYLINE:  By PAUL MELLER 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
The European Commission proposed new measures against counterfeiters today, recommending that those who copy goods like software programs and perfume should receive jail sentences, have their bank accounts frozen and pay much stiffer fines.
 "Pirates and counterfeiters are in effect stealing from rightholders the fair payment they deserve for their work," said Europe's internal market commissioner, Frits Bolkestein, adding that if the European Union fails to stamp out counterfeiting, "the incentives for industrial innovation and cultural creativity will be weakened." 
 But a coalition of trade groups representing the software, music and film industries said the commission's proposal was inadequate. 
"The creative sector has been extremely supportive of the commission's initiatives on piracy, but the current proposal falls far short of providing the legal framework necessary to fight piracy in all its forms in the European Union," the coalition said in a statement. 
The proposed law would bring Europe closer in line with the United States, where counterfeiters face stiff penalties. In the United States, an individual or company found guilty of copying software can be forced to pay damages of as much as $150,000 for each program that it has copied. 
Today's proposal would make counterfeiters in Europe face criminal sanctions and fines amounting to double the proper retail value of each item they pirated, plus the illicit profits they made on the sale of copied goods. Also, European Union countries would have the power to halt the sale of fake goods and seize bank accounts. National courts would gain greater evidence-gathering powers and would be able to insist that offenders reveal the source of the illicit goods. 
The proposed new European law, however, would not apply to individuals who copy music or software. 
The proposal will now be debated by the European Parliament and ministers from the 15 governments in the European Union. Once passed, the law will replace existing national laws against counterfeiting, which vary widely. 
Counterfeiting has surged in Europe in recent years. It reduced the European Union's gross domestic product by 8 billion euros ($8.7 billion) a year from 1998 to 2001, according to estimates by the union. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERFEITING (93%); FINES & PENALTIES (91%); SENTENCING (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (75%); DAMAGES (72%); EURO (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (70%) COUNTERFEIT MERCHANDISE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; COPYRIGHTS; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); ASSETS, FROZEN; MUSIC; MOTION PICTURES; FINES (PENALTIES) 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: MELLER, PAUL; BOLKESTEIN, FRITS 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



963 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Ford Motor's Future in Brazil Is Now on the Line 

BYLINE:  By TONY SMITH 

DATELINE: CAMACARI, Brazil 

 BODY:
At Ford Motor's high-tech factory here, rows of shiny off-road vehicles roll off the production line, swelling the preintroduction stocks of the EcoSport.
 Smaller and much cheaper than the average sport utility vehicle, the EcoSport is a gamble that the rough roads of Latin America and its consumers' shallow pockets will make the vehicle a success and help Ford South America get back in the black. 
 The idea is to build on the success of the Fiesta, a subcompact that Ford introduced in Brazil in 2002 and that is already leading a sales boom and export drive from the new Brazilian plant here.
The EcoSport is "an S.U.V. that has been specifically developed for South America and is unique in the market," said Richard Canny, president of Ford South America. And Ford hopes the vehicle, which is to be introduced Feb. 21, will create a whole new market segment, Mr. Canny added. 
Industry experts whisper that, if successful, the EcoSport might even be exported to North America.
If the model fails, however, Ford's nascent recovery across the region could stall, calling into question the $1.9 billion Ford and some of its suppliers invested in making the Camacari plant a new hub of its regional operations.
The company's image in Brazil, Latin America's largest market by far, was shaky for years, thanks largely to the late and little-lamented model-sharing joint venture with Volkswagen's Brazilian unit from 1987 to 1994.
By 2001, Ford's market share had slumped to just over 6 percent, compared with 13.2 percent in 1998. Its distribution network was hemorrhaging as dealer after dealer defected to the competition.
Spurred into action, Ford decided to invest in building the plant in Camacari, in the northeastern state of Bahia, to produce a new range of small cars, known as the Amazon family, for the local market.
Antonio Maciel, a Brazilian executive with experience in construction, agribusiness and transport, was hired in 1999 to revive Ford's moribund Brazilian dealership network, overhaul truck production and prepare for the new factory and the introduction of the first Amazon car -- a tougher, cheaper, Brazilian-engineered version of Europe's Fiesta hatchback.
His personal appearance in television ads urging viewers to "let a Ford surprise you" soon made him a household name. Other ploys to get people back into Ford showrooms included a competition that gave Ford Ka minicars -- specially face-lifted for Brazilian consumers who had found the car's rounded rear end too frumpy -- to the 10 visitors who shouted "Wow!" the loudest into sound equipment set up in 350 dealerships.
After the Fiesta rollout last May, Ford's market share began to climb, topping 11 percent in November 2002 and ended the year at 9.3 percent.
The Camacari plant started working double shifts in July, but, turning out 530 units a day, it is still below its full capacity of 850 units a day.
"The market started to realize that Ford was back in the game," said Flavio Padovan, director of Ford Brazil's truck division. Though that division has not moved to Camacari, it has still benefited from Mr. Maciel's restructuring, Mr. Padovan says. In 2002, Ford introduced 11 new truck models. It also signed up 13 new truck dealers, for a total of 128. While sales volume at the truck market leader, Mercedes-Benz, fell about 5 percent, Ford's truck sales were up 14 percent, according to Mr. Padovan.
In Brazil's car, van and pickup market, with sales of some 1.5 million vehicles a year, the Fiesta is currently the fifth-best-selling car, overtaking its main subcompact rivals, the Volkswagen Polo and Chevrolet Corsa hatchback.
"The car hit the sweet spot," said Mr. Maciel, adding that Fiesta sales to Mexico, Chile and Argentina helped Ford Brazil increase its exports by 20 percent in 2002, while exports from the Brazilian plants of VW, General Motors and Fiat declined, according to government export data.
Since late 2001, Ford Brazil has won over 49 new car dealers, bringing the total to 410.
In nearly three years, Mr. Maciel has halved Ford Brazil's fixed costs. But more must be done, he says, especially to get rid of dollar-priced components from factory supplies.
As the Brazilian currency slid some 35 percent against the dollar in 2002, the cost of some imported components soared. Plastics are up as much as 50 percent, rubber 26 percent and aluminum 33 percent, further squeezing margins.
Although he declined to disclose details, Mr. Canny said that Ford South America would be rearranging its capital structure and debt, to reduce the company's susceptibility to foreign exchange volatility.
Neither Mr. Maciel nor Mr. Canny dares to say that Ford's problems in Latin America are solved, but Mr. Maciel likens the company's performance in 2002 to an oil tanker that has already started to change course: the turnaround will come.
There is still some distance to go. Even though Ford's market share is growing, the market as a whole is shrinking. The division lost $296 million in 2002, on revenue of $1.6 billion, compared with a loss of $225 million on revenue of $2.2 billion in 2001. But fourth-quarter results were better, with the company reporting a loss of $11 million on revenue of $354 million, compared with a $46 million loss on revenue of $466 million a year earlier.
"The indication is that they are closing the gap," said Markus Stricker, principal at A. T. Kearney management consultants in Sao Paulo. "But as to whether they will make money this year, that's another question."
"Everybody here -- G.M., VW -- is saying they want and need to do that," he added.
While Ford's embattled United States operation narrowed its losses in 2002, the company still needs all the help it can get from its main units, Europe and Latin America.
Mr. Canny is cautiously optimistic about his operations. "To think we're going to turn around the whole Latin American region by launching just one product is far-fetched," he said. "But there is a substantial improvement that reflects the success of the Fiesta and a strengthening of the Ford image across the region."
He was quick to dispel speculation, widespread in the fall, that if the Camacari plant failed to make good on its investment the automaker might pull up stakes after 90 years in Brazil.
"Camacari is a huge investment for us -- an important plan that we have to make work," Mr. Canny said. "It's simply unthinkable that it won't work."
Still, analysts say there is that risk, especially given the sorry state of the global economy.
"I think Ford is not in a position worldwide to pump more money into the operation here," Mr. Stricker said. "If they can't get it to work, I don't think they can expect fresh cash from headquarters."
For now, Mr. Canny's team is basking in the glow of the Fiesta's success and preparing for the introduction of the EcoSport, which stole the show at the Auto Salon in Sao Paulo in October.
The mini-S.U.V., whose price is still secret, is expected to seriously undercut its nearest rival, the Suzuki Vitara, which is imported from Argentina. And because Fiat, G.M. and VW have no similar product, that could make for extremely good sales figures, Mr. Canny said.
"The return to profitability is coming, possibly in 2003, if the external environment holds together," he said. "But South America has a habit of throwing up new challenges, so maybe that is a risky statement."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Ford EcoSport sport utility vehicle moves down the assembly line at the Camacari plant in Brazil. No price has been announced so far for the S.U.V., which is to be introduced Feb. 21. (Bloomberg News)(pg. W1); Richard Canny, left, president of Ford South America, and Antonio Maciel are trying to put the Ford unit's operations back in the black. (Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); MARKET SHARE (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (63%); AGRICULTURE (62%) AUTOMOBILES; PRODUCTION; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS; 

PERSON: SMITH, TONY; CANNY, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) BRAZIL; LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



964 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Off Sharply as Investors Add Weak Economic Data to the Mix of Worries

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Investors upset by the latest gross domestic product report sent shares sharply lower yesterday, ending a two-day rally. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped more than 160 points, giving the index a two-week loss of almost 900 points.
 The sell-off was not surprising as the economic news confirmed fears about a frail economy. But the larger issue remained the market's concern that a war with Iraq could further suppress an already weak economic recovery. 
 "That's at the top of the anxiety list for investors," said David Sowerby, chief market analyst at Loomis, Sayles & Company in Detroit.
The Dow closed down 165.58 points, or 2 percent, at 7,945.13. That more than wiped out a gain of 121.15 from the previous two sessions, the Dow's first multiple-day winning streak in two weeks.
At the close, the Dow was back below the 8,000 level, where it had finished on Monday for the first time in three months.
The broader market also fell sharply. The Nasdaq composite index sank 35.71 points, or 2.6 percent, to 1,322.35. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slid 19.75 points, or 2.3 percent, to 844.61.
All three indexes suffered their eighth decline in 11 sessions. For the Dow, all but one of its eight losing sessions resulted in a triple-digit loss. Over the last 11 sessions, the Dow has fallen 897.49.
Investors were disheartened by news that the economy grew at a slow pace in the fourth quarter. The Commerce Department reported that the economy, as measured by the gross domestic product, expanded at an annual rate of 0.7 percent in the final three months of 2002 as consumers held back in the face of war worries, a third year of stock market declines and a dismal job climate.
But analysts said investors were more concerned about the prospects of war with Iraq than they were with economic data about previous months, which they already expected to be dismal.
Analysts do not expect the market or the economy to rebound until it is clear whether there will be a war and how the United States fares in it.
"You can't separate the two," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company. "We have this overhang of war, and fundamentally what that causes is high prices for oil and high demand for gold and for bonds but none for stocks."
AOL Time Warner fell $1.96, to $12, after announcing late on Wednesday that it had lost $44.9 billion, or $10.04 a share, in the fourth quarter. But after a $45.5 billion charge to account for the plummeting value of assets, AOL met expectations with earnings of 28 cents a share.
While AOL's loss was staggering, analysts said it had little to do with the sell-off on Wall Street.
Todd Clark, head of listed equity trading at Wells Fargo Securities, said the sell-off "is more that people think the economy is going to be paralyzed" while the situation with Iraq unfolds.
Other stocks traded lower on disappointing earnings news. Gillette fell 60 cents, to $29.50, after it missed earnings expectations by 2 cents a share.
Gateway declined 19 cents, to $2.73, after posting a fourth-quarter loss late on Wednesday that was 3 cents a share larger than analysts had forecast.
But CSX rose 93 cents, to $27.68, on fourth-quarter earnings that beat Wall Street's forecast by 7 cents a share.
Prices of Treasury securities rose sharply. The price of the 10-year note rose 15/32, to 100 9/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.97 percent to 4.02 percent. The 30-year bond increased 28/32, to 107 30/32. Its yield fell to 4.86 percent, from 4.91 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Tax-Exempt Yields"Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly. Graph tracks yields for revenue bonds and general obligation bonds from October through January. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); STATISTICS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (65%); INTEREST RATES (63%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: AOL INC (81%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (62%); LOOMIS SAYLES & CO LP (57%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (81%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



965 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Revenue Miscalculation Forces Delay in Vote on State Budget 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
The Connecticut General Assembly was forced to delay a vote yesterday on a plan to balance the state's $13.4 billion budget after the legislature's fiscal analysts miscalculated revenue projections by $280 million.
 The mistake, by the state's nonpartisan Office of Fiscal Analysis, resulted in an overestimating of the revenue for a proposed income tax increase by $30 million in this fiscal year and $250 million in the next fiscal year. 
 David Fink, a spokesman for the House speaker, Moira K. Lyons, said that legislators were working to redraft their budget plan. "We had to go back and figure could we get more revenue from different places, could we make more cuts," he said. 
For more than two months now, the General Assembly, Gov. John G. Rowland and state government employees' unions have been stalemated over how to balance the Connecticut budget. In the absence of a deal, including union concessions worth hundreds of millions, Mr. Rowland has resorted to wide-scale layoffs. In all, the governor has eliminated or pledged to cut 3,800 jobs.
In December, Mr. Rowland, a Republican, agreed to raise income taxes on state residents earning more than $1 million a year, reversing his longtime opposition to an income tax increase, in an effort to appease the Democrat-controlled Assembly.
But legislators rejected the governor's balanced budget proposal, saying it relied too heavily on spending cuts and on union concessions. Lawmakers drew up their own plan, which included a more broad-based increase in the income tax. 
Officials said that in reworking their budget plan, legislators were now considering income tax increases for all state residents earning at least $50,000 a year. Ms. Lyons said she expected a vote on the measure next week. But that vote has been delayed by the error in calculating the revenue the tax would produce.
Mr. Rowland's spokesman, Chris Cooper, said that the governor was disappointed by the delay but that even if the General Assembly passed the measure Mr. Rowland would have vetoed it because of his opposition to a broad tax increase.
"This whole process has been characterized by delay," Mr. Cooper said. "It's unfortunate they delayed the vote, but it sounds like they planned to vote on something that the governor has already pledged to veto. 
"It looks as though they intend to make it an across-the-board increase on all wage earners. Governor Rowland has consistently said that would be a tax that would be bad for this economy." 
But a poll by the University of Connecticut released yesterday suggested that state residents might be more willing than Mr. Rowland to accept a tax increase. The poll, by the university's Center for Survey Research and Analysis, found that 55 percent of people polled said they would support raising the income tax to 4.75 percent from 4.5 percent for people earning $50,000 or more a year. 
The poll, of 512 adults, was conducted from Jan. 27 to Jan. 29 and had a sampling error margin of plus or minus four percentage points. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VETO (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); LABOR UNIONS (68%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



966 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Ivory Coast's Residents Look for the Exit 

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

DATELINE: ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
First, it was the Africans. Immigrants who could afford to return home to neighboring Burkina Faso, Mali and Liberia packed up and left this rattled, war-torn country. Today, it was the Europeans, mostly the French, Ivory Coast's former colonial rulers, who crowded into the departure lounge of the newly refurbished airport here and hunted for an exit. 
 They boarded for Paris or Amsterdam, if they were lucky. A great many took off for Cotonou, Dakar, Lome, Ouagadougou -- anywhere but here. The exodus was prompted by a recent spate of anti-French attacks. Government loyalists have blamed France for imposing a peace accord that they said gave too much power to rebels who plunged this country into a brutal four-month-old civil war. 
 The peace accord, which calls for sharing power among the elected government and the rebels, could be short-lived, even by the standards of the continent. Several ministers in the cabinet of President Laurent Gbagbo, as well as the army, have denounced crucial elements of the accord -- namely, turning over the Defense and Interior Ministries to the insurgents. The interior minister, Paul Yao N'Dre, described the accord as "legal sorcery" intended to provoke the population. Rebel leaders have rejected any suggestion of renegotiating the pact. France, which brokered the talks, has pressed Mr. Gbagbo to abide by the agreement. 
Of the roughly 20,000 French citizens in this country, more than 500 left today, a diplomat said, and many more are expected to depart this weekend. From Paris 130 gendarmes came to supplement more than 2,000 French soldiers already here. At sundown, the Ivoirian first lady met with a clutch of French citizens at the presidential residence. Reporters were shooed away. 
The antipathy toward the French, brewing under the surface for years as a residue of more than 100 years of colonial rule, may have been sudden and violent, but more bizarre than the rabid Francophobia on display here has been the intense pro-American sentiment. 
Earlier this week, government loyalists here rallied in front of the United States Embassy, very near the French Embassy, which they had tried to torch. They waved American flags and tried to mouth the lyrics to "The Star Spangled Banner." Angry young men surrounded an American reporter and gleefully shouted the only words of English they knew, one of them chanting repeatedly, "Yes, very yes."
"We are tired of the French people," said Koty Managnan. "We need a new partnership. We want Bush involved in our case." 
An official at the American Embassy said: "We did not go out to talk to them. We did not exchange in any conversation." 
The ardor for the United States, observers said, is driven by a growing resentment against the French -- not just for what they say is an unfair domination of the Ivoirian economy but for the treatment of Africans in France. "People love America because they think it's easier for them to go to America, even if it's not true," argued Francis Kpatinde, editor in chief of Jeune Afrique, a newsweekly based in Paris. 
The young mobs that ran through the city for nearly three days ransacked prominent French businesses, the Air France office, the French Embassy, the French Cultural Institute and several French lycees. Homes of some French citizens were raided. Until this morning, a white face was rare on the streets of Abidjan.
Today, the people waited for Mr. Gbagbo to clarify what the peace deal might mean. He did not speak, though his aides suggested he would do so in the next few days. In his silence, tension prevailed, though the streets were relatively calm. For the first time this week, banks opened, schoolchildren marched along the roads and the main highway was clogged with rush-hour traffic. 
The airport, named after Felix Houphouet-Boigny, the country's founding president and a man known for preserving the former colony's close links to France, grew crowded soon after the curfew lifted at 6 a.m. Ivoirian soldiers, rifles slung on shoulders, manned the entrance to the departure terminal, some having their shoes shined by street children, others chasing away beggars. Luxury cars disgorged anxious travelers, some carting dogs, some toting children, nearly all trailed by locals hauling bags. Hustlers offered to find taxis, change currency and, for a few local francs, provide the use of a mobile phone.
An Indian businessman put his employees' families on a plane to Burkina Faso. An American missionary bound for Texas carried an African drum on his shoulders. Hundreds of Africans milled about, waiting for flights that had been canceled or postponed since the weekend. 
Jean-Pierre Vivet, 67, a French retiree who had taught at a school here for three months, blamed the Mr. Gbagbo for inciting "the gangsters." His sympathy, though, was mostly for the locals and not his fellow Europeans. "They can leave," he said. "The Africans have to stay." 
A wide-eyed, 24-year-old teacher from Marseille queued up in front of the Air France ticketing office. In his hand, he had a ticket for the next day's flight but his heart, he said, was heavy. "I know when I come back tomorrow, I will cry," said Aurelien, 24, who had been here for six months and fallen in love. Having watched from his apartment window as rioters waved T-shirts that read "Xenophobe. So What?" this weekend, he was afraid, he said, to disclose his full name. 
Air France Flight 703, which flies daily between Abidjan and Paris, took off this morning for the first time in five days: all 256 seats were sold, mostly to French citizens, an airline spokeswoman said. This evening's return flight from Paris was not expected to be full.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ben Sahiri, a professor at the University of Ivory Coast, stirred anti-French sentiment Wednesday in Abidjan. (Michael Kamber for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); CIVIL WAR (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ARMIES (78%); REFUGEES (78%); GENDARMERIE (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (67%); POLITICS (67%); RIOTS (60%) FRANCE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-IVORY COAST; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: ACCORD AS (68%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (68%)

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI; GBAGBO, LAURENT (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%) COTE D'IVOIRE (99%); FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); BURKINA FASO (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); MALI (92%); LIBERIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); AFRICA (92%) IVORY COAST; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



967 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: AIRLINE SAFETY; 
Citing Danger to Planes, Group Seeks Ban on a Sniper Rifle

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
A gun-control group has begun a new campaign against large sniper rifles, asserting that the rifles together with armor-piercing ammunition that bursts into flames on impact pose a serious threat to airliners at airports.
 The guns, .50-caliber rifles, sell for thousands of dollars and are primarily purchased by military and law enforcement personnel, but hundreds are bought by civilians every year. Some manufacturers' marketing material emphasizes that the rifles can destroy aircraft and armored personnel carriers. 
 Tom Diaz, a senior policy analyst at the Violence Policy Center, the gun-control group that has long campaigned for bans on the .50-caliber rifles, said: "This is not just a gun control issue. It's a national security issue." 
The center produced a 32-page report that it is distributing this week on the potential threat to aircraft of the rifle, which has a range of more than a mile. 
The Transportation Security Administration, however, does not see the rifles as a major threat. Robert Johnson, the agency's chief spokesman, said: "We are aware of it. We have considered it as part of a number of potential threats. We just don't feel it is high on the list of potential dangers."
Manufacturers and many gun enthusiasts say the rifles' critics are overzealous gun opponents who falsely raise fears about terrorism. 
Ronnie G. Barrett, a manufacturer, said the idea of shooting down a moving plane with the rifle was "big time ridiculous" because a gunman would have to aim above the plane, to take account of gravity's effect on the bullet as it traveled, and then the plane would not be visible in the scope. 
Other rifles could also be used against planes on the ground, Mr. Barrett said. 
But a report to the Air Force in 1995 by the RAND Corporation identified .50-caliber rifles as a special hazard to "high value" planes at military airfields. Alan J. Vick, one of the two authors of the study, said that the possibility of using .50-caliber rifles against parked aircraft was worrisome.
"These weapons are heavy, and as a sniper weapon, using a bipod, laying down, shooting at some terrestrial target, they can be very accurate," Mr. Vick said. "I can understand why people would be worried about them as a terrorism weapon."
He and other experts, while sometimes skeptical that the gun could be used successfully against a plane in the air, said it could damage and possibly ignite a plane on the ground.
John Plaster, a retired Special Forces officer who has tutored police snipers, pointed out that such rifles were awkward to maneuver, weighing about 35 pounds. 
"It's very unrealistic," Mr. Plaster said. "I have never heard of a commercial plane anywhere in the world that was seriously damaged while in flight by a .50-caliber rifle, ever. It's not by any means a choice weapon." 
Sales literature from Barrett Firearms Manufacturing, says of one model, "The compressor section of jet engines or the transmissions of helicopters are likely targets for the weapon, making it capable of destroying multimillion dollar aircraft with a single hit delivered to a vital area." 
A competitor, E.D.M. Arms, advertises on the Web that its Windrunner .50-caliber can be used to "attack various materiel targets such as parked aircraft, radar sites, ammunition, petroleum and various thinned-skinned materiel targets." 
Investigators for the General Accounting Office called several arms dealers to inquire about ordering the guns and armor-piercing rounds. According to a transcript of a call to a dealer in Oregon, an agent asked, "If I theoretically wanted to use these rounds to take down an aircraft, say either a helicopter or something like that, I should be able to take a helicopter down, shouldn't I?"
The dealer answered, "Yeah, it'll go through any light stuff like that."
Caliber refers to the diameter of the barrel, and .50 caliber is half an inch. At the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, Curt Bartlett, chief of the Firearms Technical Branch, said of the .50 caliber, "anything bigger than that would be getting into the range of cannons." 
Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, said he would soon introduce legislation to regulate the weapons. Mr. Waxman said he had observed a demonstration at which marines used the rifles to shoot through a three-and-a-half-inch manhole cover, a 600-pound safe and "everything imaginable."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Diagram: "Dangerous Ammunition"A .50-caliber bullet and case, at the actual size, compared with commonly used hunting ammunition. CALIBER.5030-06.30830-30.223 Diagram illustrates the different caliber sizes of bullets. (Source: Violence Policy Center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); GUN CONTROL (92%); FIREARMS (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (78%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (77%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); AIR FORCES (76%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (57%); RESEARCH REPORTS (50%) FIREARMS; GUN CONTROL; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (56%) VIOLENCE POLICY CENTER (ORGN) 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%)

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



968 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: CUNY Says It Must Raise Tuition but Will Try to Limit Increase 

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
The City University of New York will have to raise tuition next year, its chancellor, Matthew Goldstein, said yesterday, but will try to keep the increase below the $1,200 authorized in Gov. George E. Pataki's proposed budget. 
 "An increase of this level would be very harmful to many of our students," Dr. Goldstein said, noting that 60 percent of them have family incomes under $30,000. "There is no doubt that there will have to be some change. I can't predict how high it will be or when we will know. But I want to ensure that students at most risk are protected as much as we can." 
 Dr. Goldstein said he would seek ways to save money and find other ways to limit the increase; one possibility is imposing larger tuition increases for some graduate and professional students to offset smaller increases for undergraduates. 
Undergraduate tuition for state residents is $3,200 at CUNY and $3,400 at SUNY, and has remained at those levels since 1995. 
Students on many CUNY and SUNY campuses staged protests yesterday over Governor Pataki's proposals this week to raise tuition, cut financial aid and reduce state support for education.
At Hunter College, where more than 100 students gathered in protest, many students said that the combination of tuition increases and financial-aid cuts could force them out of school. "I can barely afford to pay now," said Mildred Armstrong, a 19-year-old mathematics major. "I have no other choices but to fight this. I'm going full time, but will probably take fewer classes. I take 15 credits, and I'll probably have to take just 6." Marie Destin, a Hunter junior from the Bronx, said she did not think she would be able to afford CUNY next year. "I might have to drop a few semesters," she said. 
Despite the grim budget outlook, Dr. Goldstein said he would try to hire more professors and create new programs, including a graduate journalism program specializing in urban studies, a computer simulation laboratory run in collaboration with other research universities on Governors Island, and a School of Professional Studies to run training programs for companies, unions, nonprofit entities and the government.
"The city and state of New York are facing the most serious financial crises in recent memory, Dr. Goldstein said. "Simply put, there's not enough money to pay for essential services."
The chancellor, who said he welcomed Governor Pataki's plan to invest $1.2 billion in CUNY building programs, estimated that CUNY might realize another $300 million by selling development rights.
Dr. Goldstein also called on the state to introduce tuition indexing, which would link tuition to selected economic indicators so that increases would be more moderate and students could "make informed decisions in managing their finances to plan for the costs of college."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In a noontime rally on the third floor at Hunter College yesterday, students gathered to hear about the proposed tuition increase.; A large foam effigy of Gov. George E. Pataki was used yesterday at Hunter College to draw attention to the tuition plight of CUNY students. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (95%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); MODELING & SIMULATION (70%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (61%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TUITION; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK; CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); GOLDSTEIN, MATTHEW (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



969 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Moscow Journal; 
For Flashier Russians, Euro Outshines the Dollar

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
This country's official money is the ruble, but it takes only a stroll through an auto dealership, a pricey restaurant or a classy jewelry store here to learn which currency is truly king. A check of price tags there, and in thousands of other establishments, reveals that most expensive items are denominated not in rubles, but in U.E., pronounced "oo-yeh."
 "Oo-yeh" is the acronym for "uslovnaya yedinitsa,"or "conditional unit." That is the euphemism for a wholly mythical wampum, which, by sheer coincidence, corresponds exactly with the exchange rate of the United States dollar. It has been the uncontested monarch of Russian money, the symbol of Yankee economic muscle, the yardstick by which all lucre is measured. 
 Until now. Suddenly, oo-yehs are being denominated in euros.
After a decade in a dollar-driven economy, as many as one in four merchants who price their goods in conditional units have now switched from the dollar to the euro. Many have done so abruptly -- in the last month, since the euro first surpassed the dollar in world currency markets. The euro is currently worth 34.42 rubles, well above the dollar's 31.78-ruble rate.
For Russians, who often bristle at American economic hegemony, the effect may be bracing. But it comes at a stiff price: the Citroen C-3 sedan which sold in one Moscow showroom for 13,000 oo-yeh ($13,000) on Dec. 31 costs 13,000 oo-yeh (13,000 euros, or $14,072.50) today. 
"To some customers it makes no difference because they know nothing about the exchange rate difference between the euro and the dollar," said Aleksandr, a sales manager at the auto dealership who refused to give his surname. "For those who know the difference, they are somewhat upset." 
Whether such creeping euroism is just a fad or a straw in the global economic winds requires an insight not so much into exchange-rate theory as into the opaque Russian psyche.
On one level, the rise of the euro is undeniably a major change. Russians are believed to have hoarded as much as $50 billion in American dollars in coffee cans and under mattresses, the largest such stash of any nation on earth. Since well before the Soviet Union died off, the dollar has been regarded as a guarantee of stability -- the instrument of choice for one's life savings, particularly in the 1990's when inflation ran in treble digits.
While it is legal to hold dollars and other foreign money here -- and exchange windows are as common as stoplights -- it is not legal to spend it. Hence the spontaneous appearance of the "conditional unit" in better stores and restaurants, as a way of pegging prices to the dollar and ensuring that Monday's 200-ruble, $8 beefsteak would not be a 300-ruble, $3 beefsteak on Tuesday. 
The price remains constant but the daily value of the unit in rubles, the only spendable currency, floats in concert with the greenback.
Although inflation has recently calmed to 15 percent a year and is dropping, Russians' suspicion of their native currency has not eased. 
"It's a psychological thing," said Valentin Dobrovinsky, an assistant sales manager at Arteks, a Moscow foreign-car dealership that prices its autos in both euros and dollars. "We actually have a ruble tax on all our goods," he noted, but "psychologically, it's easier to make these calculations in dollars."
But that is changing, he said. "More and more, prices are being denominated in euros, because European manufacturers and suppliers who sell things here are setting their prices in euros."
By official measures, 42 percent of Russia's imports come from Europe, and many are paid for in euros. Much the same currency pressures now weigh on ordinary Russians. Travel agencies increasingly price foreign airline tickets and vacation packages in euros, and the few Russians who open bank accounts tend to place their money in euro-denominated European banks. 
"Russians find it quite difficult to get into the U.S. these days -- Europe's next door," said Al Breach, the chief economist at the Moscow offices of Brunswick UBS Warburg, a European investment bank. "It's where they go on holiday. It's whose products they consume. It's more and more likely the currency they're going to use. So as it goes up against the dollar, they say, 'Hmm -- maybe I should start saving in euros, too.' "
By some reports, the share of euro-based deposits has as much as quadrupled in some Moscow banks in the last year. Russia's central bank said today that it had increased its euro holdings in the last year to 10 percent of its foreign reserves, up from 5 percent, while the dollar's share had dropped from 90 percent to 75 percent, reflecting the low return on dollar investments.
The rush to the euro is said to have provoked mild panics in some Russian towns, where citizens molded by decades of fear and uncertainty worried that their hoards of greenbacks were going to be rendered worthless by the euro's rise. 
Mr. Breach looks forward instead to the day when a dark horse currency will emerge to render the whole idea of oo-yehs and their euro/dollar equivalents moot at last.
"My hope," he said, "is that the ruble replaces both of them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: On Leningradsky Prospekt, the ruble-dollar and ruble-euro rates. (Luke Tchalenko for The New York Times); An upscale auto showroom in central Moscow, the sort of place where many rich Russians seem to be veering away from dollars and favoring euros. (Luke Tchalenko) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EURO (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%) CURRENCY 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



970 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Taxes in the Balance 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
Throughout his career, one constant thread in Gov. George E. Pataki's politics has been his belief in lowering taxes to prompt economic growth.
 Indeed, cutting taxes has been the core of his governing philosophy and one of the few policies that distinguishes the Republican governor from the Democrats in the state. He often touts his record of cutting 19 different taxes 63 times, and said in January that he wanted New York to be the "tax-cutting capital of America." 
 As he has wrestled with how to close an $11.5 billion budget shortfall this year and next, the governor has clung fiercely to that philosophy. Rather than raise state levies, he has proposed cutting aid to schools by $1.2 billion and curbing spending on health care for the poor by an additional $1 billion.
The governor went on a speaking tour to rail against those who would raise taxes, arguing that in the long run only cutting taxes will revive the economy and provide revenue that can save education and health care programs.
"Raising taxes this year or any year is the wrong choice," he said as he presented his budget Wednesday. "Let's take the option of raising job-killing taxes off the table on Day 1."
Yet Mr. Pataki's commitment to tax cuts faces its most serious test this year, and it remains to be seen whether he is stubborn enough or popular enough to weather the firestorm his proposed cuts to education will ignite.
During his first two terms, Mr. Pataki was able to dramatically cut personal income tax rates, the biggest source of state revenue, and still greatly increase spending, because the boom on Wall Street flooded state coffers with revenue. He even had the resources to start a program that helps pay the property tax bills that school districts charge local homeowners. But times have changed. The Wall Street bubble burst in 2000. Income from capital gains, for instance, fell to $17 million last year from $62 million in 2000. Income tax revenue shrank over the same period by $3.3 billion.
Now, Mr. Pataki's proposal to reduce state education grants by $1.2 billion will force most school districts to make a choice between laying off teachers or raising local taxes. Already Democrats are arguing that he has simply pushed the tax burden down to local property owners, who are already reeling from double-digit county tax increases.
That argument could be a problem for Mr. Pataki, whose Republican constituents are largely homeowners and suburbanites who already pay some of the highest property taxes in the country. It could also put some pressure on Republicans in the Senate majority, who will feel the wrath of homeowners in their districts if school taxes rise.
"Now the argument is that the refusal to raise taxes has a direct consequence," said Gerald Benjamin, a Republican and a political scientist at the State University of New York at New Paltz. "You are not talking about whether or not to have a tax increase. You are talking about which tax increase is more desirable."
Some lawmakers from both parties theorize that Mr. Pataki is not being serious. They speculate that he has staked out a negotiating position intended to set the Legislature up to take the blame for an inevitable tax increase.
Yet the governor's aides maintain that he is not bluffing. He genuinely believes the tax cuts he made since 1995 have attracted businesses to the state and were responsible in part for the economic boom, they say.
"This is a tax-cutting governor from the beginning, and everybody should believe that," said one top aide, who insisted on anonymity. "This isn't a negotiating stance. This is what he thinks, what he believes."
So far, the Assembly Democrats, led by Speaker Sheldon Silver, have not come out for raising income taxes. But Mr. Silver has said he may support a temporary tax increase as part of a package to close the gap that spreads the burden across all social classes.
The Senate Republicans are standing with the governor for the moment, but they privately acknowledge that the school cuts will be a tough sell. Their leader, Senator Joseph L. Bruno, said right after the governor's budget speech that he would look to offset some of the proposed reductions with revenue from selling state assets or going after tax evaders.
No one in the Legislature is underestimating Mr. Pataki's power to stop tax increases if he wants to. He can veto anything the Legislature adds to the budget, and while the Assembly Democrats have the votes to override his veto, it is unlikely that they would do so.
It would also be a mistake to question Mr. Pataki's resolve, lawmakers say. He has proven remarkably stubborn in the past. He held the budget for months in 1996 to win changes to workers' compensation laws. In 2001, he refused to negotiate a final budget until October because he thought the lawmakers wanted to add too much spending.
Because of Mr. Pataki's tenacious reputation, as well as his track record, many legislators are bracing for a long, hard fight. Most are willing to wait until the anger over school aid cuts ferments in the suburbs and cities this spring and summer. Everyone is wondering how firm Mr. Pataki will be then.
"Look at the calendar," said one longtime legislative aide, a veteran of many budgets. "It's February. Who knows where we will all be in June or July? How long will he maintain this illusion about what's doable and what's not doable? How serious is he?"
If history is a guide, Mr. Pataki is very serious about keeping taxes low. Very serious indeed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki, who has made cutting taxes the cornerstone of his three terms in office. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); HEALTH CARE (69%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; COUNTIES; PROPERTY TAXES 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



971 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Slim Growth For Economy In 4th Quarter 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
The economy eked out a meager growth rate of 0.7 percent in the fourth quarter of last year, the Commerce Department reported yesterday, as the first positive gain for business investment in two years was not enough to compensate for consumers' dwindling appetite for new cars and trucks.
 Emerging from recession last year, the economy posted decent overall growth of 2.8 percent from the end of 2001 through the end of 2002, but it was a year of jagged quarterly performance, capped by a sharp slowdown from the 4 percent rate during the third quarter. 
 "In the areas where you had a recession, you can't get a recovery given the levels of overcapacity and risk aversion," said Paul A. McCulley, a managing director at the Pacific Investment Management Company who is known for his economic forecasting. 
Most economists had predicted a weak figure for the fourth quarter, and none interviewed yesterday said they planned to change their forecasts. Though they expect growth to improve slightly this year, it might not be enough to create jobs until the spring or summer. 
Many companies hesitate even to bet on a midyear recovery, said Carl T. Camden, president and chief operating officer of Kelly Services, a leading provider of temporary workers. His clients "talk about things turning around in the third quarter," he said, "and then they realize that's the same speech they gave last year."
The confirmation of dreary suspicions about the fourth quarter could give both political parties ammunition in the coming debate on another fiscal stimulus package. Yet consumers have been less than impressed with the president's proposal, said Richard T. Curtin, director of consumer surveys at the Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan. "They don't think it will help improve the job outlook."
In the fourth quarter, the resilience of the American consumer suffered a small lapse. The increase in consumer spending, in the midst of heightened uncertainty about a war in Iraq and stubbornly high unemployment, was just 1 percent, adjusted for inflation and seasonal changes, the smallest gain since 1993.
A drop of $25 billion in auto sales accounted for virtually all of the lull. William T. Wilson, a senior economist at Ernst & Young, said that he expected the slackness in vehicle sales to continue. Special incentives have kept sales above their trend for four years, he said, but the enthusiasm of consumers was bound to wane.
"You have been borrowing from the future for a year or two," Mr. Wilson said. "Even with aggressive discounting, you're still looking at another down year for auto sales."
Mr. McCulley added that consumers had come to expect no-interest financing for cars and trucks regardless of changes in the economy. "The consumer has been trained to pull back until zero is restored," he said. "There's no pricing power in that sector."
The other sector that bolstered the economy last year, housing, stayed strong through the fourth quarter. Investments in residential housing swelled by 6.8 percent. On Tuesday, the Commerce Department reported that sales of new homes rose by 37,000 in December, capping a record year of 976,000 sold.
In addition to spending on new homes, consumers kept buying more goods from abroad. Oil prices also rose in the fourth quarter, and exports from American manufacturers dropped by 1.7 percent. The nation's trade gap ballooned by $18.9 billion, further dragging down the economy's growth rate.
"The trade picture is certainly a reminder that we're working in a very weak global economic setting," said Robert V. DiClemente, chief United States economist at Salomon Smith Barney. "When the world steps back, it hurts us regardless of whether the dollar is moving up or down, or sideways."
A steep increase in spending by the federal government, which rose 10.1 percent, salvaged the quarter. Most of the surge came from military spending as the nation mobilized for a possible war. Without that spending, the economy would have shrunk by 0.2 percent.
The economy's average growth rate was 2.4 percent in 2002. That pace easily bested the glacial progress of 0.3 percent in 2001 but still fell short of the long-term growth rate, which the government projects at 3 percent.
In yesterday's report, a small sign of strengthening came in the area of corporate investment, excluding changes in inventories. After declining steadily since the fourth quarter of 2000, before the beginning of the recession, investment edged up 1.5 percent. Spending on computers and software jumped for the second consecutive quarter, this time by $12.1 billion.
Mr. DiClemente has been tracking a jagged upward trend in that category for several months. "That's the one area where we have probably undershot in terms of long-run needs," he said, "and it's not surprising that we're getting this kind of slow, grinding recovery." The retrenchment of corporate investment, in his view, may be nearing its end.
Yet Mr. McCulley, who insisted that the economy still suffered from too much capacity for production, was not impressed by the latest figures. "The dog that won't bark in this recovery has been business investment," he said. "The fourth-quarter data says he still ain't barking."
Inventories rose $3.3 billion in the fourth quarter, compared with $18.8 billion last summer, as wholesalers and retailers anticipated a subdued holiday shopping season.
The dip in the growth of consumers' spending echoed a steady decline in measures of their confidence in the economy. That decline continued this month, according to figures that were released Tuesday by the Conference Board, a business research group. Its index of confidence fell from a revised value of 80.7 in December to 79.
The government also released mixed reports on the labor market yesterday. First-time claims for unemployment benefits inched upward last week, the Labor Department reported, to 397,000. The four-week moving average slipped to 384,000, however, its lowest level since November.
Employment costs rose 3.4 percent in 2002, the smallest gain since 1999. Much of the modest inflation came from benefits rather than wages and salaries.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Stops and Starts"Business investment, which had declined for two years, grew a little in the fourth quarter. But consumer spending, which had been strong, slowed sharply, causing the economy to lose most of its recent momentum. Graph tracks business investment, consumer spending and gross domestic product figures from 1995 to 2002. All figures are quarterly, shown at an annual rate (Source: Commerce Department via Haver Analytics)(pg. C1) Chart: "Real Economic Growth"Annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonality and inflation. Graph tracks change in gross domestic product from 1998 to 2002. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); RECESSION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); IRAQ WAR (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); POLITICS (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

COMPANY: PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (69%); KELLY SERVICES INC (55%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

TICKER: KELYB (NASDAQ) (55%); KELYA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (55%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (55%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (52%)

PERSON: CARL T CAMDEN (50%) ALTMAN, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



972 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Approval of Snowmobiles Contradicts Park Service Study 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
Last November, the Bush administration announced that new technology for snowmobiles had made the machines cleaner and quieter and that as a result it would allow them to continue to ply the snow-covered byways of Yellowstone and Grand Teton National Parks.
 But even as the National Park Service made that announcement, it had completed an internal report, not made public, that concluded that banning the machines altogether was still the best way to protect the parks' air quality and wildlife and the health of visitors and employees, who often wear gas masks to protect themselves from snowmobile fumes. 
 The National Park Service under the Clinton administration had concluded two years earlier that getting rid of snowmobiles was the only way to protect the park, and it approved a ban that was to begin this winter.
The Bush administration, under pressure from snowmobile manufacturers and rental outlets, reopened the matter, saying that newer machines would reduce noise and pollution. Despite the information in the internal report, which runs 300 pages, the administration is prepared to issue a final decision in March to allow the machines to continue buzzing through the parks and on the John D. Rockefeller Jr. Memorial Parkway, which links them. 
The internal report is to be made public Feb. 24 as the park service moves toward its final decision, which is to be signed on March 24 by Karen Wade, regional director of the Intermountain Region of the National Park Service, in Denver. Although park officials said a final decision had not been reached, all previous statements and public documents indicate that the park service favors continuing to allow snowmobiles in the park under certain conditions.
A copy of the internal report was obtained by environmental groups through Montana's open records law.
In analyzing the environmental effects of snowmobiles, it said that phasing them out was the best way to reduce various pollutants that irritate people with respiratory ailments, help remove the haze that hovers around Old Faithful, protect wildlife from collisions and reduce noise.
The report also concluded that the economic effect of banning snowmobiles in the Yellowstone area would be "negligible to minor," contrary to concerns expressed by snowmobile companies.
John Sacklin, chief of planning for Yellowstone, said in an interview today that the environmental issues were only part of larger concerns that the park service considered when announcing its preferred alternative in November.
"In that report, we identified the environmentally preferred alternative and the agency preferred alternative, and those are two different things," Mr. Sacklin said. "The agency preferred alternative strikes a balance between all the environmental considerations and all the other considerations in working toward a direction for winter use in the parks."
Chief among the other considerations, he said, was a realization by the park service that cleaner, quieter machines were now available.
The plan, as the park service announced on Nov. 12, also the date of the internal report, is to limit snowmobiles in Yellowstone to 1,100 per day. On the busiest days, as many as 2,000 are in the park. On slower days, only a few hundred are there. 
Mike Finley, the superintendent of Yellowstone in the Clinton administration and now president of the Turner Foundation, an environmental grant-making foundation based in Atlanta, said that the existence of the internal report showed that the administration's decision-making process on snowmobiles was "a sham."
"They're trying to re-cook the books but they can't re-cook the science," Mr. Finley said. "This is not based on science but on the politics of the red states," those that President Bush won in the 2000 election.
Mr. Sacklin of Yellowstone said the internal report was not made public because the park service realized that once it shared the document with other agencies, ordinary citizens could retrieve it under Montana's open records laws. The park service had planned to make the report public in February, he said. 
Jon Catton of the Greater Yellowstone Coalition, one of the environmental groups that obtained the report, said he was surprised at Mr. Sacklin's explanation for not making it public earlier.
"The administration understands it has solid scientific information that it reached through its own studies that shows the damage that continuing snowmobiles will cause, and it knows that information won't be helpful to its push to keep snowmobiles in Yellowstone, so it's sitting on the information," Mr. Catton said. "Their own study says that keeping snowmobiles will be worse for the air quality, the wildlife and public health."
Eric Ruff, a spokesman for the Interior Department, said that environmental groups were playing politics with the report, noting that they had had the report for more than two months. 
"They are trying to make this sound nefarious, and there is nothing nefarious about it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bison and snowmobilers shared a road in Yellowstone National Park this week. The park service is weighing new rules for snowmobile access. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (96%); MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); APPROVALS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SNOWMOBILE MFG (89%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); SNOWMOBILING (78%); WILDLIFE (77%); AIR QUALITY (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); SUNSHINE LAWS (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (67%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (57%) PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; NATIONAL PARKS, MONUMENTS AND SEASHORES; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; SNOWMOBILES; NOISE; AIR POLLUTION; RENTING AND LEASING 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (93%) NATIONAL PARK SERVICE 

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SEELYE, KATHARINE Q 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK; GRAND TETON NATIONAL PARK

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



973 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Albany Says It Can't Certify Indian Pt. Plan 

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

 BODY:
New York State said yesterday that it could not approve an emergency plan for the area around the Indian Point nuclear plant, asking the federal government to take the next step in the fierce battle over the two reactors in Westchester County.
 Gov. George E. Pataki did not comment on the merits of the emergency plan, which has come under increasing attack since a consultant he hired reported this month that it was inadequate to protect the public from a release of radiation, especially a large release from a terrorist attack. But Mr. Pataki said in a statement that the report "has heightened our concerns about the adequacy of the emergency plans for these communities." 
 Today is the deadline for New York to issue its normally routine annual certification of the emergency plan, which the state drafts in consultation with federal and local officials and the plant owner. But the state told federal officials yesterday that it could not give that approval because the four counties surrounding the plant, concerned about safety, had refused to issue their own certifications.
In effect, the governor sought to shift the focus to federal agencies, which will decide what happens next and will face pressure from opponents of Indian Point to close the plant, 35 miles north of Midtown Manhattan, in Buchanan.
Many of those opponents, including local elected officials, hailed the state's move as an important step in their campaign. But closing the plant would require at least a year of legal and administrative decisions, with the plant's owner, the Entergy Corporation, fighting at every turn. And New York's message yesterday was cast more as a bureaucratic formality than an emphatic statement.
In a letter to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the state said it simply could not give its annual certification to the plan because the four counties had refused to submit required "checklists." Those forms confirm that the counties have performed necessary training and drills and have completed various administrative functions. 
Mr. Pataki urged FEMA and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which requires a FEMA-approved plan as a condition of the plant's operating license, to heed the counties' concerns and "continue working with us to ensure that these plans will protect our residents in the event of a nuclear emergency."
A spokesman for FEMA, Mike Beeman, said officials were reviewing the letter, which they received late yesterday, and had not determined what their next step might be. For one thing, the spokesman said, it was not clear what if anything the state was asking of the emergency agency, or if it intended to send a letter of certification at a later date.
"It is an incomplete," Mr. Beeman said, adding that the agency planned to deliver a fuller response, perhaps as early as today.
At any rate, he said, a report the agency is completing on the plant, due within a month, would carry more weight than the state's letter in deciding whether the emergency plan is adequate.
Although the Nuclear Regulatory Commission requires a FEMA-approved plan, it has never closed a plant over emergency planning problems; indeed, it has never closed a plant permanently against an owner's will. 
Even if it decides an evacuation plan is inadequate, the commission can give the plant owner a chance to show that the plan is adequate or that the owner can address the problems. The commission can also let the owner offer "other compelling reasons for continued operation," and Entergy has often pointed out that Indian Point contributes at least one-fifth of the electricity for New York City and its northern suburbs.
The company, which has defended the emergency plan as realistic, said yesterday that it welcomed the state's move as an opportunity to improve the plan.
Advocates for shutting the plant also took heart in the state's move.
Assemblyman Richard Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat who has led the fight to close the plant, criticized Mr. Pataki for not explicitly opposing the plan, but he said that even a tacit sign from the state might be good enough.
"It is inconceivable that FEMA can certify the plan over the objections of the counties and the state, even if the objection of the state is in the form of a quiet whine from deep in a bunker," Mr. Brodsky said.
Alex Matthiessen, executive director of Riverkeeper, an environmental organization that has led a coalition of plant foes, said, "It puts us one step closer to closing the plant."
Mr. Pataki's stance suggests that the state cannot or will not play a lead role in emergency planning. That was not the case in 1983, when Gov. Mario M. Cuomo faced a similar dilemma after Rockland County refused to participate in emergency drills for the plant.
The state told the N.R.C. then that it could fill in for Rockland emergency workers, and the commission voted to accept the plan and allow the plant to continue operating.
"The governor assured the plant would stay open by using state resources," said Alfred Delbello, a former Westchester County executive, who as Mr. Cuomo's lieutenant governor organized the state plan. Doing the same for four counties, however, would prove a challenge, he said.
Both supporters and foes of the plant said the Indian Point debate put Mr. Pataki in something of a bind. Although his home in Garrison is within the evacuation zone for the plant, he infrequently addressed the concerns raised about the plant before the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks heightened anxiety. 
Mr. Pataki hired the consultant, James Lee Witt, the former director of FEMA, in August as Mr. Pataki's opponents in the governor's re-election campaign began making the plant's safety an issue.
Mr. Witt's preliminary report -- a final report is due next month -- forced Mr. Pataki to balance the concerns of allies in the business community, who want to see the plant operating, and those of many suburban constituents who have taken Mr. Witt's findings as gospel.
"He is really in a box because a lot of his suburban support is concerned about Indian Point," said Blair Horner, legislative director of the New York Public Interest Research Group, which wants the plant shut down. "But he has the other factor of the business community, which would view closing the plant as a negative signal. And he has to come up with the energy."
If Indian Point were to close, much of its power could be replaced by other sources, but independent analysts have warned that that could be costly for ratepayers. "There is a practical reality for him that the plant is a tremendous economic engine for the state," said Gavin Donahue, executive director of the Independent Power Producers of New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (86%); GOVERNORS (78%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); TERRORISM (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; INDIAN POINT NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (NY); SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); TERRORISM; ATOMIC ENERGY; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

COMPANY: ENTERGY CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%) FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY; NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION; ENTERGY CORP 

TICKER: ETR (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (66%)

PERSON: ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); WITT, JAMES LEE 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE; BUCHANAN (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); PUTNAM COUNTY (NY); ORANGE COUNTY (NY); ROCKLAND COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



974 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Pension Insurer Cites $3.6 Billion Deficit and Suspects Worse 

BYLINE:  By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
The agency that insures company pension plans reported a $3.6 billion deficit today, its largest ever, and said it was studying whether the way businesses now calculate pension values was masking even deeper weaknesses in the system.
 The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, which insures retirement benefits for about 44 million Americans, has had a rapid financial reversal over the last year, having finished 2001 with a $7.7 billion surplus. Its deficit, larger than expected, reflects the declining health of the many company plans that the government now insures. The agency estimates that these plans together owe $300 billion more to current and future retirees than they have the money to pay. 
 The greatest blow to the pension agency was dealt by the steel industry. Declining old-line manufacturers owe benefits to tens of thousands of retirees and are struggling to compete with newer rivals that do not offer pension plans. The pension defaults last year of just three steel companies erased $7 billion of the agency's surplus. The airlines also present a big problem. US Airways announced on Wednesday that it had applied to have the government take over its pilots' pension plan, adding perhaps $500 million to the agency's prospective obligations.
The agency said it still had enough money to keep making all pension payments due now, and it finished the year with $25.4 billion in assets. But the pension benefits it has promised to pay are larger and will probably grow after a year of record corporate bankruptcies. 
"It is a long-term problem, not unlike Social Security, and we need to make sure we're on a sound footing," said Steven A. Kandarian, executive director of the pension agency, which insures pension plans much as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insures bank deposits. 
The agency's operations are financed by businesses, which pay pension insurance premiums, and not from general tax revenue. It insures conventional defined-benefit pension plans -- those offering workers a preset monthly payment -- and does not cover defined-contribution retirement plans like 401(k)'s.
For as long as businesses have promised pensions to their employees, some companies have failed to set enough money aside. After one pension scandal involving the collapse of Studebaker in the mid-1960's, legislation was enacted in 1974 to require companies to finance their plans. 
In general, when a pension fund's assets fall and stay below 90 percent of the amount needed to pay future liabilities, the company is required to make additional contributions. Many companies find their pension funds slipping toward the 90 percent cutoff and below because of declining stock market prices and other factors. 
The ensuing contributions and related costs have prompted big corporations to call for a change in the interest rate used to calculate pension values. The change they seek would reduce their overall pension deficits by a little less than half -- at least on paper -- according to the pension agency's projections.
That, in turn, would free companies from having to pump billions of dollars into their pension funds. But it would also make the funds look healthier on paper than they are, camouflaging any increased risk of default. 
Mr. Kandarian said the agency was reviewing an alternative proposal that would try to pin down more accurately the solvency of pension plans. Each company would factor its workplace demographics into calculations of its pension liabilities. Companies with the oldest workers, who are closest to claiming their pensions, would have more rigorous financing requirements than those with younger workers. 
Mr. Kandarian declined to provide further detail, saying the possibilities "are still being discussed." 
Janice Gregory, vice president of the Erisa Industry Committee, which lobbies on behalf of corporations on matters pertaining to employee benefits, said she had heard only a vague outline of the alternative method and was afraid that a technical debate would slow a decision by Congress.
A temporary rule change for pension calculations has been helpful to business, but it is due to expire at the end of this year. Unless Congress addresses the issue, the obligations of businesses with pension plans could balloon on paper.
"It will be a disaster," Ms. Gregory said. "You will have plans that have to freeze benefits. You will have plans that have to terminate because they don't have the cash."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven A. Kandarian, the pension guarantor's director, yesterday. (Linda Spillers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (74%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (72%); AIRLINES (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); SCANDALS (50%) PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; COMPANY REPORTS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS 

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (72%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (65%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%) SIC6399 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE CARRIERS; 

PERSON: KANDARIAN, STEVEN A; WALSH, MARY WILLIAMS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



975 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
Why Today's Europeans Object to America's Worldview

BYLINE:  By ETHAN BRONNER 

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
When you fly into the Basel airport, you have a choice between two exits. One leads to Switzerland and Germany, the other to France. Little effort is devoted to indicating which is which. There are fewer armed guards visible than at any major airport in America. You can wander accidentally into the wrong country. Considering that three different languages are spoken within a mile and that the Rhine River nearby flowed for centuries with the blood of conflict, the airport's casual borders are a reminder of what contemporary Europe has become -- a near-haven of harmonious coexistence. 
 That's easy to forget but vital to remember, because it goes to the heart of what is gnawing at the European-American relationship these days. Eight European leaders may have backed President Bush's approach to Iraq in an op-ed article published yesterday in The Wall Street Journal and a number of European papers, but most Europeans tend to think Americans have too harsh a view of the world, relying on force in international relations where diplomacy and commerce would do. Americans often consider the Europeans craven appeasers who prefer to buy off an enemy rather than confront him. As war with Saddam Hussein looms, this divide is affecting nearly every trans-Atlantic interaction. 
 Oddly, it represents a reversal of roles. Not many generations ago, Americans came to Europe for a firsthand look at power and its trappings -- how to dress and how to eat when you are in charge of civilization. The Americans were the wide-eyed ones, the Europeans the hard-bitten sophisticates. Those images remain. Most recently, when the Soviet Union collapsed, it was an American theorist who said that we were witnessing the end of history through the triumph of a singular viewpoint. Europeans scoffed at his naivete. Yet if you want to find a place where history actually seems to have come to an end, where there are no longer armed conflicts aimed at redrawing maps and redistributing wealth, it is in the well-groomed, cosmopolitan and militarily weak Europe of the 21st century. 
The change has been so quick that it gets overlooked. When Germany and France, at a celebration of their 40-year friendship pact this month, jointly raised their voices in opposition to early military action in Iraq, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld angrily dismissed them as "old Europe." He got it precisely backward. Aversion to war is what defines not the old Europe but the new one, where disagreements are settled by multilingual summit talks over dinners of snails and duck, and high-speed trains zip you from Paris to Brussels without the need ever to show a passport or exchange currency. The big dispute in Europe is over how much to subsidize farmers.
Of course, Europeans live in a paradise of modern convenience and cultural tradition at least in part because they have handed over responsibility for military engagement to the Americans. This makes for a paradox that has been pointed out by Robert Kagan in the journal Policy Review. Europeans want to maintain the role they have long enjoyed -- leading the world debate. But without the power to back up your perspective, such leadership can prove elusive. 
This produces a second paradox. The Europeans are persuaded that their newfound coexistence is a model for the world and that the more Hobbesian American approach represents a dangerous alternative. In other words, the disagreement over Iraq is not only over specific policy choices but underlying worldviews. The Europeans, and especially the French, in whose nation the phrase mission civilisatrice (civilizing mission) originated, have long seen it as their role to teach others how to live. Yet now the Americans talk about invading Iraq in order to spread democracy in the Middle East. This has nurtured the conflict between Europe and the Americans in a way that gives fresh meaning to the phrase "clash of civilizations." 
At a recent conference in Brussels of Americans and Europeans, the new Europe was much in evidence. The participants were not discussing what European governments should do about Iraq. They were debating what the United States should do. It was clear that Europe could do very little without increasing its military power. While that was something many advocated, others remarked that if it did so, Europe might betray what it had become. 
An Italian member of the European Parliament, for example, spoke of the phrase "Never again." Americans use it to mean preventing another Nazi Holocaust -- no appeasement, no looking the other way at genocide. Europeans, he said, also meant no more war. "The European public does not accept peace and war as two routes to the same goal," he said. "Peace is itself a value. Just like life. That is why we oppose the death penalty." 
One unstated concern Europeans clearly have about an American-led war in Iraq is that it could render Europe and its civilizational model irrelevant. That may sound purely self-interested, but in truth the European model is more relevant than ever. Through common economic interests, education and relentless talk, the Europeans have forged a new world for themselves. 
Other regions should be so lucky. There is no escaping the fact that Europe needs to spend more money on arms if it wants a serious role in foreign policy. But its ideas deserve a close hearing in world affairs, as for example in the war on terror. Americans, after all, have become good at fighting terrorists but not at fighting terrorism. As one German political scientist put it: "You think we are naive for resisting the use of force. We think you are naive for failing to understand how to dry up the sources of terror." 
Americans and Europeans may have switched places in recent decades as their power relation has shifted, but in this debate it's an open question as to which are the realists. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%); TERRORISM (59%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%); TRAINS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (53%) RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); BRONNER, ETHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (57%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (93%); IRAQ (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (88%); BELGIUM (79%) IRAQ; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



976 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Flogging The French 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; Paul Krugman is on vacation.

 BODY:
Ah, for the halcyon days of a year ago, when we fretted about why Arabs hate us. Now the question is: Why does everybody hate us?
 The European edition of Time magazine has been conducting a poll on its Web site: "Which country poses the greatest danger to world peace in 2003?" With 318,000 votes cast so far, the responses are: North Korea, 7 percent; Iraq, 8 percent; the United States, 84 percent. 
 O.K., it's just an Internet poll and not worth the pixels it's not printed on. Sure, the Poles and Portuguese may still dance with us. But if there were an extra spot on the axis of evil, the world would vote us in. Somehow, in a year's time, we've become Iraq. 
John le Carre put it this way in a (representatively venomous) essay this month in The Times of London: "America has entered one of its periods of historic madness, but this is the worst I can remember." 
So what should we make of this? Does it matter that we've somehow morphed in public perceptions from the world's only superpower to the world's super-rogue state?
Of course it matters.
The macho notion that we'll do what we choose and if the world doesn't like it, it can go insert expletive here is both ludicrous and dangerous. We mustn't become slaves to foreign opinion, but neither should we glibly dismiss it as we prepare to launch a war that will hugely aggravate this distemper -- which will nurture more terrorism.
One example: In 1991 the U.S. leaned on Saudi Arabia to let us keep military bases there after the gulf war. We ignored its concerns about public opinion because the bases would improve our security.
Wrong. In fact the bases radicalized many young Saudis, and persuaded Osama bin Laden to turn his sights on the U.S. What seemed a shrewd move to improve our security ended up undermining our friends and strengthening our enemies.
Moreover, while the lack of allied support won't prevent us from getting into a war with Iraq, it may prevent us from getting out. The U.S. sees its role as the globe's SWAT team, but after we have ousted Saddam and whistled for the cleanup crew it's not clear that the allies will want to help. Nor will they pay the bill for this Iraq war as they did the last one. Each time Don Rumsfeld insults Europe, it costs us another $20 billion. 
It's also possible that if all your friends say you're making a mistake, they're not mendacious back-stabbers but simply right. As Kipling said: "trust yourself when all men doubt you / But make allowance for their doubting too."
In fairness, I also have to say that President Bush is right that we must reserve the option of invading countries unilaterally. Think back to 1993, when we let European passivity, particularly by John Major and Francois Mitterrand, block military strikes in Yugoslavia until tens of thousands of people had been killed. In retrospect we should have ignored the Europeans and unilaterally attacked Serbia to stop the genocide. Ditto in Rwanda. But in Iraq there is no such urgency. 
Of course the anti-Americanism is unfair. It's particularly irritating coming from the French, who pandered shamelessly to Baghdad during the 1990's to get oil-for-food contracts, thus undermining containment and creating today's crisis.
Yes, the French can be exasperating. Years ago I worked for a summer on a French farm, and my boss constantly denounced the English as penible -- tiresome -- so one day I asked why. "Because they fought us at Waterloo!" he stormed, arms flailing. "If Napoleon had been left alone, he could have created a common market 150 years ago. It was penible of them to resist!"
But just because the French can be penible doesn't mean they are always wrong. The French and Germans have a real argument against invading Iraq -- that containment and deterrence are better than invasion. While it's fair to disagree, it's puerile to refuse to listen.
The most sensible suggestion for confronting anti-Americanism comes from one prominent American official: "It really depends on how our nation conducts itself in foreign policy. If we're an arrogant nation, they'll resent us. If we're a humble nation, but strong, they'll welcome us."
That was George W. Bush in the second presidential debate. He was dead right -- back then.

E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); DESERT STORM (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); TERRORISM (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); WEB SITES (57%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PUBLIC OPINION; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); FRANCE (79%); PORTUGAL (58%) IRAQ; EUROPE; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



977 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Explosion Extinguishes One of a North Carolina Town's Few Bright Spots 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: KINSTON, N.C., Jan. 30 

 BODY:
Before Wednesday, the 255 people who worked at this town's bustling medical-supply plant counted themselves lucky to work hard shifts mixing hot chemicals and stamping out syringes for $11 or $12 an hour.
 Good blue-collar jobs are hard to come by in Kinston, where tobacco and textiles reigned, then vanished, nothing has taken their place, and unemployment always seems to get worse. 
 But after the Wednesday afternoon explosion that set the West Pharmaceutical Services factory ablaze, killing 3 workers and injuring 37, those who emerged unscathed or had been scheduled for a later shift were counting their blessings for a different reason.
"I wanted to come at 11 to work some overtime, but they wouldn't let me," said Tammy Smith, who lost two friends in the explosion and said she would probably have been killed had she been on the job.
Today, federal investigators who converged on the remains of the plant focused on whether dust created by the mixing and drying of chemicals that form rubber and plastic could have caused the blast. 
As fires smoldered in a steady mist, law enforcement and safety investigators interviewed scores of survivors and other employees of the factory, seeking clues to whatever -- or whoever -- had set off the explosion.
The federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms was treating the scorched factory, which made syringes and parts for intravenous hookups, as a crime scene. While fire marshals said the area was still too hot this afternoon to allow investigators in, the bureau's agents were expected to don safety suits and start sifting for clues later tonight or tomorrow, officials said.
But accident investigators from the United States Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board said their interviews with plant managers and workers today led them to zero in on dust as a possible cause of the blast.
Workers said the explosion occurred in a part of the factory known as automated compounding systems, the half of the plant that makes rubber and plastic from chemicals like polymers, sulfur, clay and oils. They said the blast started in or near one of the two mixers that combine those ingredients under heat, before the material becomes sheets of plastic that are used on the other side of the plant to make its finished products.
Investigators agreed with the employees' account.
"Dust poses a potential ignition hazard," said Sandy Gilmour, a spokesman for the chemical safety board, in the same way that a spark in a grain elevator can cause a tremendous explosion.
Mr. Gilmour said the board would have the chemicals used at the factory analyzed to learn under what conditions they could ignite. He said that the board's experts were looking for possible sources of ignition, but that those they had identified so far were all contained within the plant's components and thus should not have posed a danger.
One worker, Wayne Brown, 32, said the company had installed a new mixer -- a giant bowl, he called it --in late December. The other was replaced a year earlier, he said. Mr. Brown said he would have been at a mixer himself but was not due at work until shortly after the explosion.
Two of the three people killed were working at the mixers, co-workers and relatives said. They were identified as Faye Wilkins, 50, and William Gray, 52. Ms. Wilkins was pinned under steel beams and screamed for help. It took firefighters 10 minutes to reach her through a maze of steel and toppled walls, and she died before they arrived, said Tommy Howard, the chief of a local volunteer fire department, who was among the first to arrive.
The third worker killed, identified as James Byrd, was an employee of a contractor that did custodial work at the factory, workers said.
Many of the worst injured were working on the automated compounding side of the factory, they said. Ten people were in critical condition today at the North Carolina Jaycee Burn Center in Chapel Hill, some with burns over 70 percent of their bodies.
Most of the 17 workers still hospitalized were employees at West Pharmaceutical Services, but a few miles away in Goldsboro, Wayne Memorial Hospital's one remaining patient from the explosion was a firefighter who had been overcome by smoke.
Those who felt the blast up close had a hard time describing it. Richard Tyson, his two sons walking on either side of him, said it was like nothing he had seen.
"I was in Vietnam," Mr. Tyson said, before sinking into his sons' arms, sobbing. "I can't compare Vietnam to this."
The director of the North Carolina Labor Department's Occupational Safety and Health Division, John Johnson, said his agency's boiler-pressure experts and others from the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration would examine the factory's manufacturing processes, which include heat-and-pressure devices similar to autoclaves.
"We're looking at the chemical interactions between pressure and temperature, those kinds of things, because the chemicals they had in this plant aren't the kinds of things that are going to blow up under normal circumstances," Mr. Johnson said. "They didn't have a large inventory of dangerous chemicals. It's not like an ammunition dump -- it was a relatively benign facility from a chemical standpoint."
The state labor commissioner, Cherie K. Berry, said she intended to balance her department's enforcement and job-protection missions.
"We need to convince this company very quickly to rebuild this plant very quickly," Ms. Berry said.
Indeed, as Gov. Mike Easley, Senator John Edwards and other officials made their way among the dozens of workers who gathered to be interviewed by investigators, it was the chief executive of West Pharmaceuticals, Don Morel, who received the most attention.
Patrinia Faison, a West employee, said: "There's really no jobs here. And that was one of the best companies here that was paying any money. Now we don't know what we're going to do. Lord knows, I hope they rebuild it."
In an interview, Mr. Morel said his priority was the families of the victims, the wounded workers, and his displaced employees; the company said today that it would pay workers through the end of February.
Mr. Morel said he was also rushing to see that the company's other plants across the country picked up production.
For this close-knit county seat of 25,000, the reality that one of its largest and best-regarded employers had been dealt a devastating blow left residents contemplating a streak of bad luck that has upended thousands of lives in recent years. Hurricane Floyd in 1999 destroyed hundreds of homes. Textile mills, tobacco processors and a DuPont plant have all closed or cut back, costing an estimated 4,000 jobs.
The explosion seemed likely to add to that total, officials said. And worse, it happened on the edge of what was supposed to be the catalyst for Kinston's economic revival, a multimillion-dollar airport industrial park called the Global TransPark. The runway extension that gave little Lenoir County the state's longest commercial airstrip, and helped lure major air cargo tenants to a place with few other connections to the outside world, had finally opened on Dec. 16.
Now the Global TransPark is getting its first national exposure -- and for this.
"We had a lot of hopes for the future of our transport facility," said Van Braxton, a City Council member. "This is just a devastating thing to have happen."

GRAPHIC: Photos: With his sons offering support, Richard Tyson tried yesterday to describe the explosion that destroyed his workplace, West Pharmaceutical Services, in Kinston, N.C., on Wednesday afternoon. The remains of the factory, which made medical equipment, were still smoldering yesterday. (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); CHEMICALS SAFETY REGULATION (89%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (89%); RUBBER & SILICONE (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (89%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); FACTORY FIRES (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (75%); OVERTIME (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); FIREARMS (70%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (67%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (60%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; CHEMICALS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNEMPLOYMENT; EXPLOSIONS; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) 

COMPANY: WEST PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF ALCOHOL TOBACCO FIREARMS & EXPLOSIVES (54%) WEST PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES 

TICKER: WST (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (57%)

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) KINSTON (NC)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



978 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Budget Crisis Ends Program That Lured Jobs To New Jersey 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
New Jersey is shutting down a state incentive program that has infuriated New York officials by luring companies from Manhattan, creating a high-rise skyline on the western side of the Hudson River.
 Over the past six years, Goldman Sachs, Lord Abbott, U.S. Trust, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, J. P. Morgan Chase and others have moved thousands of highly paid employees from Manhattan to the waterfront skyscrapers just across the Hudson in return for millions of dollars in tax breaks and grants under the New Jersey program, known as the Business Employment Incentive Program. 
 But the program is succumbing not to New York protests, but rather to the pressures of a $5 billion budget gap in New Jersey. Gov. James E. McGreevey told business leaders this week that he was cutting $30 million from the program, effectively bringing it to an end, at least for the next year. 
"This is something that the governor clearly would rather not do if he had his druthers," Micah Rasmussen, a spokesman for Mr. McGreevey, said yesterday. "It's a question of not having enough money to balance the budget."
On the other side of the Hudson, there was a sigh of relief from New York officials who faced the prospect of losing jobs to New Jersey or being forced to find money to compete with New Jersey's inducements.
"We've always thought the BEIP program was overly generous," said Daniel L. Doctoroff, New York City's deputy mayor for economic development. "We questioned how they could sustain it. But it's time that the competition based on incentives be put to an end."
Job theft has long been a sensitive issue between New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. Critics contend that states and cities squander badly needed tax revenues trying to get companies to move a couple of miles, rather than viewing the entire region as a single economic engine.
New Jersey has agreed to provide $710 million in benefits for 280 companies since the inception of the business incentive program in 1996. In the 1990's, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani offered more than 50 companies a total of $2 billion in tax breaks and other subsidies after the companies threatened to move to the suburbs. But Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has said his administration is generally opposed to the so-called retention deals. So as a result of budget pressures and changing philosophies, the terrain of job war across the Hudson River seems to be changing.
But New Jersey's decision to cut the program's money does not mean that the border war for jobs is over. Jersey City, for example, still offers other property and sales tax benefits to companies. And Thomas Vincz, a spokesman for the New Jersey Department of the Treasury, said the state program might get money in the future.
"It's a shame," said Richard Lefrak, president of the LeFrak Organization, which owns the Newport complex on the waterfront in Jersey City. "It was one of the more powerful incentives they had in New Jersey."
Seven of the eight office towers at Newport were built after the incentive program went into effect in 1996. Mr. Lefrak believes that most if not all of the tenants took advantage of the program's tax breaks.
Under the program, companies that expanded or moved to New Jersey were eligible for grants equaling up to 80 percent of their state income tax for 10 years. 
Sometimes the program cost New York taxpayers even when companies stayed in Manhattan. To counter the siren calls from New Jersey, New York officials provided tax breaks to local companies threatening to move to the suburbs.
In 1997, New York and New Jersey got into a bitter bidding war for Standard & Poor's, the bond rating agency, then in Midtown Manhattan. At one point, Charles Millard, president of New York City's Economic Development Corporation, confronted Gov. Christie Whitman of New Jersey at a speech in Manhattan. He demanded to know how she could talk about cooperation while she was offering Standard & Poor's $50 million to take its 2,000 employees to the Newport complex.
The rating agency ultimately moved to 55 Water Street in Lower Manhattan, but not before the city gave it a $34.5 million incentive package. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SALES TAX (75%); TRENDS (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); RELOCATIONS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) BAGLI, CHARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



979 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: White House to Hand Over Governors Island to New York 

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
After more than two centuries under federal control, Governors Island is expected to be returned to New York today, several public officials said yesterday.
 The ceremony at the White House this morning designating the official return of the island will cap eight years of off-again-on-again negotiations over the future of the 172-acre piece of land, a former military base the shape of an ice cream cone that lies in New York Harbor a half-mile from the Brooklyn Bridge and a third of a mile from the Red Hook section of Brooklyn. 
 Under the terms of the agreement, New York will pay only a nominal -- but as yet undisclosed -- sum for Governors Island, which is accessible only by boat. 
Many preservationists and public officials have been eager to acquire the island, but some skeptics have raised questions about whether the state is taking on a financial burden. In return for that nominal price, large-scale development will be barred, and some officials have wondered whether the island will ever generate enough revenue to pay for maintenance and other costs. 
The federal government has been spending $6 million to $10 million a year to prevent deterioration in the sea walls and the island's 225 buildings. Allowing the public access to the island is expected to add significantly to the cost. 
The new city-state agency that will manage Governors Island will be headed by Randy A. Daniels, New York's secretary of state. Mr. Daniels declined to comment yesterday, as did other officials involved in the negotiations.
About 22 acres of the island, encompassing Fort Jay and Castle Williams, two fortresses that played an important role in the War of 1812, were set aside in 2001 as a national monument and are expected to be transferred to the National Trust for Historic Preservation and, ultimately, to the National Park Service. Another 40 acres are to be reserved for a state park.
City and state officials have said that some of the buildings, many of them built in the early 1800's, will be devoted to educational purposes, with the City University of New York playing a leading role. 
In a speech yesterday at the Harvard Club, Matthew Goldstein, the chancellor of CUNY, said the university was working on a plan to create a major research center that would focus on computer modeling. The so-called Simulation Center would be a collaborative effort involving several other universities in the area, the chancellor said. "Computer simulation is a powerful analytical tool for addressing problems involving complex systems in science, engineering, economics and public policy," Dr. Goldstein said. "It is especially valuable in settings where physical experimentation is impractical or impossible." 
He did not say how much the research center would cost or how it would be financed. Dr. Goldstein also said there would be other uses for the island, including a center for teacher training. 
Governors Island has belonged to the federal government since 1800, when New York gave it to the Army. The Coast Guard took it over in 1966. In 1995, the Coast Guard announced that it would close the base. In a conversation at that time with Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who was then a senator, President Bill Clinton offered to return the island to the state for $1. 
But that plan was stalled when Congress passed the Balanced Budget Act and decided the island had to be sold at fair market value. Last April, President Bush revived the earlier plan, and the negotiations began, with the city and state pressing the federal government to continue paying at least some of the maintenance costs. It was not clear yesterday where the money would come from. 
Mr. Moynihan said yesterday that he was overjoyed that the transfer was finally about to take place. "It's like getting another borough," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (86%); MODELING & SIMULATION (84%); HISTORY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); ICE CREAM (76%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); ENGINEERING (66%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (64%); STATE PARKS (62%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY; DANIELS, RANDY A (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) GOVERNORS ISLAND (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



980 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: When College Breaks the Bank 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "College Loans Rise, Swamping Graduates' Dreams" (front page, Jan. 28): 
 The pursuit of a college degree should be a path to freedom, intellectual and economic. 
It should not lead to a downward spiral of indebtedness. Rising tuition costs have been extremely burdensome to low- and middle-income students, especially those with aspirations for graduate school and professional careers.
Higher education serves many purposes, from fostering individual growth and democratic values to ensuring the existence of a highly skilled work force. It should not be in the business of creating a new class of "indentured" workers. 
Given that so many college classes are taught by adjunct faculty members (who are poorly paid, with few or no benefits), one must wonder why tuition continues to skyrocket to such exorbitant levels.

CHRIS STERN
Hoboken, N.J., Jan. 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (88%); LABOR FORCE (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (55%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; CREDIT; TUITION; STUDENT LOANS 

ORGANIZATION: NELLIE MAE CORP 

PERSON: STERN, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



981 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1998 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
Baseball Players See a Down Market but Smell Collusion

BYLINE:  By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
A perennial All-Star catcher and Gold Glove winner, he played for the Texas Rangers the past five years under a $42 million contract, and last week Ivan Rodriguez -- unable to secure a high-paying multiyear deal -- signed a one-year contract with the Florida Marlins for what amounted to less than $10 million.
 The same day, Roberto Hernandez, who has averaged more than 30 saves the past 10 seasons, signed with Atlanta. Coming off a five-year, $28 million contract, he agreed to $600,000 for one year. 
 It has been that kind of winter for free agents, both the voluntary and the involuntary kind. In many instances, if they have secured jobs at all, they have taken large pay cuts of a sort not seen since the collusion era of the 1980's. 
But while teams have been signing players for smaller salaries, they have also been shedding, and trying to shed, salaries and contracts they no longer want to carry. Indeed, the operating philosophy this off-season appears to be built around these concepts: trim, cut, hold down or just plain give away. Anything to save money.
For example, in on-and-off conversations the past couple of months, the Mets and the Colorado Rockies have tried to figure out how the Mets can trade outfielder Jeromy Burnitz and his $11.5 million salary to the Rockies for pitcher Denny Neagle and the $37 million he has left on his contract.
These days teams are not willing to take on a big salary if they cannot get rid of one, or else a team has to include money to offset the salary of the player it is trading. The Mets, for example, traded Rey Ordonez to Tampa Bay last month and agreed to give the Devil Rays $4.25 million of the shortstop's $6.25 million salary.
"During the winter meetings all the talk was about trading money," one general manager said.
This is the first signing season of the new labor agreement between the owners and the players, and both sides are scrutinizing economic developments, which have been influenced in part by the nation's economy but have been affected by internal factors as well.
A major question among the people who represent players is whether one of the internal factors is spelled c-o-l-l-u-s-i-o-n.

More Than a Coincidence?
Based on information supplied by agents from their negotiations for free-agent clients, the players association last week asked the commissioner's office for information related to those negotiations. It was the first formal step in what could become a collusion grievance.
"We've received evidence from agents and players of improper activity, and we're pursuing that investigation through an information request," Michael Weiner, a union lawyer, said yesterday.
The labor agreement bans concerted action by clubs against free agents. Two arbitrators found owners guilty of collusion after the 1985, 1986 and 1987 seasons, and the clubs subsequently settled the cases for $280 million. 
Management officials scoff at, and vehemently deny, suggestions that the owners are at it again.
"We went into this negotiation making presentation after presentation of the economic condition of the clubs, including their significant debt obligations," Rob Manfred, the clubs' chief labor executive, said. "The economy turned, which has had a massive impact on the market. We did a new agreement, which significantly changed the landscape. The idea that it's different this winter can't be all that shocking."
To refute charges of collusion, Manfred pointed to some of the contracts that free agents have signed and the bidding that occurred for some players.
The union, however, is not concerned about the value of new contracts, high or low. Rather, agents have given the union examples of free agents receiving the same or similar offers from multiple teams, and of clubs knowing what offers another club planned to make to a free agent before the offer had been made.
Whether the clubs are acting independently or conspiratorially, fiscally responsibly or overly conservatively, the market has undergone an unusual change. 
The new labor agreement includes a competitive balance tax that in the 2003 season will levy a 17.5 percent penalty against portions of payrolls over $117 million. Last year only the Yankees, the Texas Rangers and the Los Angeles Dodgers exceeded that payroll level.
The Yankees, who in recent weeks have signed the foreign stars Hideki Matsui and Jose Contreras, are the only team this winter that has not been intimidated by the tax threshold or has not used it as the reason it does not want to pay high salaries. Their payroll, including $7.7 million in benefits, is $170.5 million, not far from the $175 million with which they finished last season.
To some people, the tax threshold is looking more and more like a payroll cap, which the National Football League and the National Basketball Association have but baseball does not because the union has always resisted it.
The Atlanta Braves are a prime example of a team that has spent sufficiently to fuel its run of 11 consecutive division championships but that now is taking severe steps to reduce its payroll; last year, the Braves came within $7 million of this year's threshold.
Through free agency and trades, the Braves have lost the majority of their 2002 pitching staff, including two significant starting pitchers, Tom Glavine and Kevin Millwood. They practically gave away Millwood, a 19-game winner last season, after seriously considering not offering him a contract.
"Once we made the decision to keep Greg, we could no longer have Greg's and Millwood's contracts," Stan Kasten, the Braves' president, said, referring to Greg Maddux, their other significant starter. "No one would take the Millwood contract or what they imagined he would've gotten in arbitration. Trading him to the Phillies proves it."
The Braves and other teams feared that Millwood would gain a $10 million salary in arbitration. The Phillies, who gave up a minor league catcher for him, negotiated a $9.9 million salary with Millwood.
"To keep our team intact would have meant the payroll exploding," Kasten said.
Once owned by Ted Turner, the Braves are now the property of AOL Time Warner, the media giant, whose economic problems have spilled over to its baseball team. But then, most teams cite the economy as a reason for their conservative spending.
"This has been such a hard winter," Dave Dombrowski, the president of the Detroit Tigers, said. "The basic agreement is new, revenues are down from most years, we have an economy in which sponsorship and advertising dollars are hard to achieve."
Allard Baird, the general manager of the Kansas City Royals, said baseball developments mirror what is going on economically in society. But he added a twist.
"There's restraint," he said, "and through restraint it gives the low-revenue clubs a chance to make some strides. For right now, I think there are strides being made."
Even by a team that is in the process of paring $10 million from its 2002 payroll? The Royals had one of the worst won-lost records in the major leagues last season, but their owner, David Glass, directed his baseball people to slash an already small payroll by $10 million. 
"The goal is to improve the ball club, to lay the groundwork for the rebuilding mode we're in," Baird said. "But the goal also is to get where we need to be payroll-wise."
Based on management projections prepared just after the new basic agreement was completed five months ago, the Royals will be one of the major recipients of revenue under the new revenue-sharing plan. They have been projected to receive $19 million this year.
People on the players' side believe if the Royals cut their payroll to $37 million, they will not be using the revenue-sharing money on players' salaries. Yet Baird said, "Everything we get will go back into the club."

Spending in Philadelphia
The owners' primary goal in last summer's negotiations, they asserted, was to enhance competitive balance. No one is prepared to project whether that goal will be attained in the coming season, but given off-season developments, at least some people on the players' side are skeptical, noting that it will be difficult for teams to improve if they are cutting their payrolls.
"It's clear that teams like the Phillies and the Cubs, as well as the Mets and the Yankees, have proceeded with a business-as-usual approach," said Jeff Moorad, an agent who represents many major players, including Manny Ramirez and Mo Vaughn. "They may be the only teams that approached the off-season in that fashion."
The Phillies, in particular, have gone against the tide. For years a low-revenue team in the country's fourth-largest market, they shifted strategy this off-season and signed first baseman Jim Thome to the winter's largest contract (six years, $85 million). And they were the only team willing to take on the Millwood salary.
They have emerged from their long economic hibernation because they look to have a championship-caliber team when they move into their new park next year. But there are far more teams like the Royals than the Phillies.
"It's been a long, painful off-season in many respects," Moorad said. "It's clear at this stage that clubs are in a rollback mode."
Are clubs acting independently or in concert? Moorad was asked.
"I think it's clear there's been stronger guidance from central baseball," he said. "There's clearly better coaching on the part of the commissioner's office. Whether that coaching and guidance crosses the line and becomes illegal collusion is for the players association to determine."
The guidance Moorad referred to has been evident, in the view of agents, in the offers that have been made to players, especially middle- and lower-tier free agents. More than one agent told of clients receiving the same or very similar offers from multiple teams, often in the $1 million to $1.5 million range. 
Manfred said that those offers had been made because a market had been established by the signings of similar players.
"When you have 10 middle relief pitchers left in the market," the management labor executive said, "the idea gets around that $1 million is the going price." 
For the last several years, labor lawyers in the commissioner's office have advised clubs on salaries to submit for salary arbitration. They are free to engage in that practice because the labor agreement does not prohibit concerted action in salary arbitration. Free agency is another matter.
If the union produces evidence of orchestrated offers to free agents and shared information on offers among clubs, and the arbitrator finds that the practice violates the labor agreement, the clubs will be liable for triple damages.

One Player's Bad Timing
Agents credit the clubs with other strategic moves that would not be considered illegal. They say, for example, that the clubs flooded the market with free agents, adding to the 157 existing free agents by not tendering contracts by the Dec. 20 deadline to 46 players and releasing still others before that date.
Greater supply, they say, has made for less demand.
And a lack of demand proved costly to Ivan Rodriguez, the perennial All-Star catcher. A free agent for the first time in his 12-year career, Rodriguez did not find an acceptable job until pitchers and catchers were only three weeks from the start of spring training. 
Only two years ago, after Texas gave Alex Rodriguez $25.2 million a year for 10 years, Ivan Rodriguez sought a contract extension from the Rangers for $20 million a year. Last week he accepted the Marlins' one-year offer of $10 million. It includes deferred payments.
"Rather than focus on the disappointment of the timing of Pudge's free agency," Moorad, his agent, said nine days before he signed, "we've chosen to be pragmatic and upbeat about his next team. We're not sure what team that's going to be at the moment, but I believe in the end he will at least have the benefit of choosing the situation that makes sense for him and his family."
Rodriguez and his family live in Miami Beach.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ivan Rodriguez, top, and Rey Ordez. (Associated Press); (Barton Silverman/The New York Times); Rob Manfred, clubs' labor lawyer. (Reuters)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); ATHLETES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); LAWYERS (60%) BASEBALL; LABOR; FINANCES; WAGES AND SALARIES; ORGANIZED LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS RANGERS (84%); NEW YORK METS (82%); COLORADO ROCKIES (72%); FLORIDA MARLINS (58%)

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (78%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



982 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE CONTINENT; 
Who Stands With U.S.? Europe Is of Two Minds

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
As Europe struggles to define its position toward Iraq, the debate is generating not an Iraq problem but a Europe problem, a growing split between nations like France and Germany that are defending a narrower, European interest and those looking to a broader, North Atlantic alliance. 
 The gravity of the problem became evident today after the leaders of eight European countries published an open letter in The Wall Street Journal and several European papers extolling the "bravery and generosity of America" and calling on the international community to take a united stand against Iraq.
In one sense, Europe is united. According to surveys, there is relative unanimity in European public opinion opposing any war.
 Yet European leaders have taken widely differing stands. At one extreme there are Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany, who rejects war, and President Jacques Chirac of France, who leaves that option open but only as a last resort.
At the other extreme is Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, who sees grounds for war already present. Earlier this week, Mr. Blair's foreign minister, Jack Straw, declared that the report on Monday by Hans Blix, chief of the chemical and biological weapons inspection program, meant that Baghdad was in "material breach" of United Nations disarmament conditions, diplomatic code for grounds for war.
But what really splits Europe between signers and nonsigners of the letter is not so much Iraq, as what attitude to take toward the United States.
"The real bond between the United States and Europe is the values we share," wrote the eight signers -- from Britain, Spain, Italy, Portugal, Hungary, Poland, Denmark and the Czech Republic. "Our strength lies in unity." A ninth country, Slovakia, signed the letter later.
Sergio Romano, a former Italian diplomat and foreign affairs commentator, said the wedge splitting Europe was not Iraq. "The problem is relations with the United States," he said. "That is the real issue."
"A number of countries feel they don't want to be on the other side" from the United States, he went on. "And they are going to cause a problem for Europe."
Disunity over Iraq comes as Europe strives for greater institutional and political unity. A convention in Brussels is drafting a kind of constitution for the European Union; the union recently agreed to admit 10 new members, mainly from among the formerly Communist-ruled states of Eastern Europe.
The problem for Europe is that when faced with an international challenge for which it has no common position, individual governments take positions. In doing so, they yield to various impulses, including the status of public opinion, their own political traditions and instincts.
In Britain, governments at least since the Suez crisis of 1956 have decided that, in major security issues, they would follow the United States unswervingly.
On the Continent, the motives are more complicated. In the case of Italy, and its mercurial prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, they are a mix of domestic and international considerations. Spurned by the European left and its news media, which viciously attacked him as a menace to Europe during the campaign leading to his May 2001 election victory, Mr. Berlusconi sought consolation in the arms of President Bush.
Moreover, in a country reluctant to spend for defense, Mr. Berlusconi's flirting with Mr. Bush has been useful, relying as it does on Washington to look out for Italian security.
The case for the Central European countries only recently accepted into the European Union is even more complex.
Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, all members of NATO, have only recently rediscovered national feelings after having their nationhood forcibly suppressed in a half-century of Soviet domination. 
"They know they have to be in the European Union, but they're terribly afraid the E.U. will rob them of their sovereignty," Mr. Romano said. "They much prefer a distant master to a master close by, since they need protection."
Strikingly, the two biggest countries at the heart of Europe, Germany and France, were not invited to sign.
The risk for Paris and Berlin, said Dominique Moisi of the French Institute for International Relations, is not so much that they will be isolated in Europe -- as the countries with the largest populations and strongest economies they wield far too much clout for that to happen. Rather, it is that war will drive a wedge between them as France accepts the force of American evidence while Germany remains captive to the isolation created by its rejection of a military solution. 
The danger here is that, traditionally, Europe has moved ahead only when the two saw eye to eye, and in recent years the relationship has been frayed by bickering on a range of issues, from tax reform, to farm subsidies, to central bank policy. With that tension simmering just under the surface, the last thing they need is an open break over Iraq. 
Explaining France's refusal until now to accommodate Washington, Mr. Moisi said, "Partly it was instinct, partly frustration with the United States, partly public opinion."
More troubling by far, for many Europeans, is Germany's inflexibility. "Since unification, Germany is not the Germany of Adenauer," said Mr. Romano, referring to Konrad Adenauer, the postwar German leader, who led West Germany into NATO. "It is the Germany of 'ohne mich,' " he said, citing the slogan -- German for "without me" -- that was the 1950's rallying cry of German opponents of NATO.
Yet the drive for European unity was born of the traumatic events of World War II and pushed forward by the collapse of the Soviet empire. No one can say what further impulse common European policies will take from the present standoff.
"If the United States goes to war, and it doesn't turn out to be what they expected, and there's unpleasant fallout," Mr. Romano said, "then those who resisted will have the upper hand." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); BONDS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (74%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (71%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (71%); INSPECTIONS (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (66%); GERHARD SCHRODER (57%); JACQUES CHIRAC (57%); JACK STRAW (53%) TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (91%); POLAND (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); SPAIN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); DENMARK (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%) IRAQ; EUROPE; GERMANY; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



983 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: TRIAL IN HAMBURG; 
Relatives of Sept. 11 Victims Face a Suspect in Germany

BYLINE:  By DESMOND BUTLER 

DATELINE: HAMBURG, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
Spectators and even the court-appointed interpreter wept in court today as the horror of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks -- planned in this city -- coursed through the accounts of relatives of victims, who for the first time confronted a man charged with conspiring in the attacks with their loss and suffering.
 "I have traveled a long distance to let the court know firsthand the extraordinary devastation my family experienced," said Michael Lowe, whose daughter Sarah was a flight attendant on the first plane that struck the World Trade Center. "The death of my precious child has left a hole in my heart." 
 The witnesses all expressed hope that their stories would be considered at sentencing by the panel of five judges overseeing the trial of Mounir Motassadeq, who is accused of aiding the Hamburg cell of Al Qaeda involved in the Sept. 11 plot. He could receive a maximum prison sentence of 15 years if convicted. 
The testimony came as the trial, which began here last October, nears a verdict.
"I am testifying because I believe that before this court passes judgment and sentence on the defendant, the court should see the human face of the tragedy of Sept. 11," said Stephen Push, one of the five witnesses. 
"I believe the punishment for such a crime should be commensurate with the magnitude of loss and suffering that it caused," said Mr. Push, whose wife, Lisa Raines, was a passenger on American Airlines Flight 77, which crashed into the Pentagon.
The witnesses were in court representing a larger group, whose members have been accepted as co-plaintiffs in the trial. 
Under a provision of German law, relatives of murder victims have the right to review evidence, file motions, question witnesses and give their own testimony in a trial. The co-plaintiffs have been represented by lawyers in the court proceedings since they learned of their rights.
As proceedings opened today and Mr. Motassadeq took his place in the courtroom, he glanced across at the witnesses facing him. Later, some of them pointedly returned those glances as they recounted their loss.
Mr. Push, a founder of the Families of September 11 group, which represents more than 1,500 relatives, stood just a few feet from Mr. Motassadeq but stared straight ahead at the judges as he told the court that he had been haunted by imagining his wife's last moments.
"My life in the last year and a half has had no joy in it," he said. "I know that on at least some of the planes, the terrorists stabbed and slit the throats of some passengers and crew members. 
"I know from the assignments that my wife would have been the passenger closest to the two terrorists in the economy class of the cabin. I often lie awake at night wondering whether she was injured or in pain during the remainder of the flight."
Mr. Motassadeq was arrested in November 2001 and has been on trial since last October on charges that he provided logistical support to the Hamburg cell. He has admitted close friendships with a number of its members -- including two of the suicide pilots -- and attendance at a Qaeda training camp in Afghanistan. But he has denied knowing of his friends' plans to attack the United States.
Maureen Fanning, a former nurse and the widow of a decorated battalion chief with the New York City Fire Department, has two severely disabled children to care for. She was among the witnesses who asserted Mr. Motassadeq's guilt for their plight.
"The world has to be protected from the suicidal, murderous inclinations of the defendant and his friends," she said, provoking a mild rebuke from the lead judge, Albrecht Mentz, who reminded the witnesses that the case was still ongoing.
Deena Burnett, whose husband, Tom, led a group of passengers who stormed the cockpit of United Airlines Flight 93 before it crashed in Pennsylvania, asked that the court "hold the defendant responsible for terrorism and murder."
Occasionally gazing at at the defendant, Mrs. Fanning explained that the death of her husband, Jack Fanning, in the World Trade Center, had forced her to put the older of two severely autistic sons in a home. 
"At the time of the incident, in spite of our workloads, we had been able to provide our children a loving home life and parental care," she said.
Testimony from another witness, Kevin Shaeffer, a Navy lieutenant. was read aloud in the courtroom. He could not attend the trial, because of the severe burns he suffered at the Pentagon crash site.
Mr. Motassadeq was attentive and expressionless throughout. During the the testimony of Joan Molinaro, whose son Carl, another firefighter who died, the court-appointed interpreter broke down while translating her account of watching the destruction of the towers.
"I have watched my son die 100 times, every time I see the videotape of the towers falling," Mrs. Molinaro said. "I look at the faces of the people coming out. But his face is never there."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen Push, whose wife was on the plane that crashed into the Pentagon, and Maureen Fanning, widow of a New York City fire battalion chief who died in the World Trade Center, outside the Hamburg courthouse. (Otto Pohl for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); TESTIMONY (90%); SENTENCING (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); AIRLINES (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); VERDICTS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); FAMILY (76%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (75%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); MURDER (58%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

PERSON: BUTLER, DESMOND; MOTASSADEQ, MOUNIR EL- 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (68%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); HAMBURG (GERMANY)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



984 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE PRICE; 
U.N. Estimates Rebuilding Iraq Will Cost $30 Billion

BYLINE:  By JULIA PRESTON 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
The United Nations, stepping up the pace of its contingency planning for rebuilding Iraq after war, has concluded the costs will run to at least $30 billion in the first three years, according to the organization's top development official. 
 Mark Malloch Brown, head of the United Nations Development Program, appealed for urgent attention to the enormous job of rebuilding Iraq if the United States and its allies go to war there. Despite Iraq's oil wealth, United Nations planners calculate that it will be a far more expensive and complex task to rebuild than Afghanistan, where the world organization is currently leading the reconstruction effort. 
 The United States will decide in coming weeks whether to undertake military action without the blessing of the Security Council, or to press on with negotiations to garner wider international support. If the Bush administration opts for early war over the objections of France, Germany and other nations that want to give United Nations weapons inspections more time, it will be certainly be more difficult to secure those nations' help with the costs of reconstruction, diplomats here warn. 
In an interview today, Mr. Malloch Brown was careful to say that the planning exercise does not mean he has concluded that war is inevitable. 
But Secretary General Kofi Annan, watching Washington's confrontation with Saddam Hussein intensify, has quietly urged his organization to accelerate its preparations to handle a major postwar crisis in Iraq. 
"I am looking at a situation of potential mass human vulnerability and need," Mr. Malloch Brown said. "I've got to be ready for whatever comes."
Since United Nations economic sanctions were imposed in 1990 to punish the Iraqi government for invading Kuwait, Iraqis have been in a downward spiral on the development chart. Once a rising oil-rich nation with a thriving urban middle class, Iraq is on the dole, with 60 percent of its people dependent on government-distributed food rations and a per capita income of not more than $700 a year. 
"This is a very damaged place that needs enormous assistance," Mr. Malloch Brown said. He cautioned that Iraq would not be able to rely on a renewed gusher of oil to pay for its own reconstruction. The Iraqi oil industry is in disrepair after more than a decade with little investment, and will require a huge new flow of capital to restore it to global competitive standards. 
But after Mr. Hussein stopped paying most of his debts in response to the sanctions, the country now faces at least $60 billion in commercial and official debt, by United Nations estimates, as well as $170 billion in unpaid reparations to Kuwait stemming from the invasion. Much of Iraq's debt is to countries in the former Soviet Union, with Russia the biggest creditor. 
While a new, United States-backed government may be able to renegotiate some of the reparations, it will be politically difficult to achieve debt relief for Iraq without offending many other countries, particularly in Africa, which have been pleading for debt pardons.
Until Iraq straightens out its debts, United Nations planners believe, it will be difficult to get the major investments needed to revive the oil industry. Oil production has dropped from 3.5 million barrels a day before the last war to 2.1 million barrels a day, providing up to $13 billion a year. If production increased under a new government to $16 billion a year, it would still be barely enough to pay for basic needs and repairs after a war.
The effort in Afghanistan is expected to cost up to $6.5 billion for the first 30 months. But Afghanistan was a bitterly poor country whose people lived a self-sufficient subsistence based on farming and herding, in contrast to largely urban society in Iraq. 
Even for Afghanistan, where the ouster of the harsh Taliban government drew broad international support, Mr. Malloch Brown said he had to "really go around and shake the can" to raise money. 
Aid groups that work in Iraq have warned of a severe relief crisis if bombing damages Iraq's cities. They point out that, during more than a decade of hardship, Iraqis have spent down any financial reserves they once had, and if the food rations are disrupted, people will quickly face hunger. 
But besides the United States and Britain, no other nation wants to finance contingency planning for Iraq, officials said, because it makes them appear to be endorsing war. United Nations agencies recently appealed for $37 million to begin planning, and got no response. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); INSPECTIONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%) UNITED NATIONS 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) PRESTON, JULIA; BROWN, MARK MALLOCH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); GERMANY (76%); FRANCE (56%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



985 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: How to Get Inside a Student's Head 

BYLINE:  By Steven Pinker; Steven Pinker, professor of cognitive science at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is author of "The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature."

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
The scant mention of education in President Bush's State of the Union address suggests that the administration feels its work on the subject is done, at least for now. Last year's sweeping bill was a significant achievement, but as with most federal initiatives, it dealt primarily with administrative issues like financing and achievement tests. Little attention was given to the actual process of education: how events in the classroom affect the minds of the students.
 Yet a bit of White House leadership might encourage educators and scientists to apply a better understanding of thinking and learning to what happens in the classroom. Bill Clinton, in fact, did show some enthusiasm for this approach -- particularly research on the brain. But as exciting as neuroscience is, I suspect it will provide little enlightenment about education. All learning changes the brain, but the changes at the level of brain cells are similar in all complex organisms -- including mice, which don't learn to read, write or add. 
 Rather, it is the patterns of changes across billions of neurons that determine the distinctively human forms of learning in the classroom. To understand these patterns, we need to apply insights from cognitive science, behavioral genetics and evolutionary and developmental psychology. 
An important place to start might be in working to apply a scientific mindset to education itself -- that is, to determine as best we can whether various beliefs about educational effectiveness are true. Classroom practice is often guided by romantic theories, slick packages and political crusades. Few practices have been evaluated using the paraphernalia of social science, such as data collection and control groups. We already know that some methods of reading instruction work better than others, yet many schools still use methods proved ineffective like "whole language" techniques. 
The sciences of the mind can also provide a sounder conception of what the mind of a child is inherently good and bad at. Our minds are impressively competent at problems that were challenges to our evolutionary ancestors: speaking and listening, reading emotions and intentions, making friends and influencing people. They are not so good at problems that are far simpler (as gauged by what a computer can do) but which are posed by modern life: reading and writing, calculation, understanding how complex societies work. We should not assume that children can learn to write as easily as they learn to speak, or that children in groups will learn science as readily as they learn to exchange gossip. Educators must figure out how to co-opt the faculties that work effortlessly and to get children to apply them to problems at which they lack natural competence. 
Finally, a better understanding of the mind can lead to setting new priorities as to what is taught. The goal of education should be to provide students with new cognitive tools for grasping the world. Observers from our best scientists to Jay Leno are appalled by the scientific illiteracy of typical Americans. This obliviousness leads people to squander their health on medical flimflam and to misunderstand the strengths and weaknesses of a market economy in their political choices. 
The obvious solution is instruction at all levels in relatively new fields like economics, evolutionary biology and statistics. Yet most curriculums are set in stone, because no one wants to be the philistine who seems to be saying that it is unimportant to learn a foreign language or the classics. But there are only 24 hours in a day, and a decision to teach one subject is a decision not to teach another. The question is not whether trigonometry is important -- it is -- but whether it is more important than probability; not whether an educated person should know the classics, but whether it is more important to know the classics than elementary economics. 
This is not just a question of "relevance" to everyday life; these fields are as rigorous and fundamental as those in traditional curriculums. Nor is it a question of tradition being bad and innovation good -- many fad movements are just as evasive about setting priorities. Even if learning music were shown to enhance math skills, that doesn't mean it is as effective as the same number of hours spent learning math.
In a world with complexities that constantly challenge the abilities nature gave us, serious thinking about trade-offs in education cannot be responsibly avoided -- by scientists, educators or policy makers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BRAIN (90%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); BUDGETS (76%); NEUROSCIENCE (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TESTS AND TESTING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (58%) PINKER, STEVEN (PROF); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



986 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: That Other Problem With 'Old Europe' 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT BUSH has good reason to be mad at what his defense secretary calls "old Europe." The policies now in effect in Western Europe could frustrate the president's success in the area that could be most important in the next election.
 We're not talking about Iraq. French and German opposition to war seems unlikely to deter the United States, or to keep it from winning a military victory. We're talking about the economy. 
 The American economy is stumbling along, and yesterday's gross domestic product report showed that the private sector shrank in the fourth quarter, although growing government spending helped produce slow growth. We are not in a recession, even if it feels like one.
On the other hand, old Europe has growth that is chronically anemic. In 2002, the American economy showed real growth of 2.4 percent. Germany's rate was 0.2 percent, and it is hoping for 1 percent this year. France is doing only slightly better.
Over the last decade, Robert Barbera, the chief economist of ING/Hoenig reports, the United States achieved nearly twice the growth of France and almost three times that of Germany.
This lack of growth shows up in Europe's high unemployment rates, but it also shows up in our trade statistics. America's trade deficit has widened relative to almost every country and region, but it is worth noting that since 1997 the deterioration in the trade account with Europe has been greater than against China or Japan.
It also helps to explain why Alan Greenspan's easing of monetary policy, and President Bush's tax cuts, have not done more to spur the American economy. With Japan perennially weak, and Europe doing little to stimulate its own demand, our exports have stagnated as imports grow.
In normal recessions, weak American demand improves the trade balance. But there was almost no improvement in the 2001 downturn, and we are now back to setting records. In the final quarter of 2002, net imports came to a record 5.3 percent of the gross domestic product.
So what's wrong with old Europe? To be sure, Europeans have good reason to be as tired of American economic sermons as we were of Japanese lectures in the 80's, when the consensus was that Japan had all the answers and we had better listen.
But it does not seem too strong to insist that the euro so far has not produced the advertised benefits. It was supposed to encourage countries to liberalize their labor markets, but little of that has happened. Instead, European countries are stuck with a common monetary policy that has been too tight for too long, and with a fiscal straitjacket that is now leading Germany to raise taxes.
Mr. Barbera sees a bright side. A rising euro, which he expects to continue, "will force European nations to come to terms with pathetic rates of home-grown growth." He figures that a more lenient monetary policy is virtually a sure thing, and he has hopes for structural reform in other ways.
President Bush should hope he's right. Slow European growth was not that important in the late 1990's boom in the United States, but those days are not coming back. American growth is likely to be restrained for some time by the hesitation of businesses to make capital investments, with or without tax cuts.
That means that we need other major economies to show some growth to help the world economy. Japan is not likely to do that before the next American election, so that leaves it to Europe. Mr. Bush may not need French troops, but he may be more dependent than he realizes on successful European economic policies.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2003

 CORRECTION:
The Floyd Norris column in Business Day yesterday, about economic policies in Europe, misstated the name of the firm that employs Robert Barbera, a chief economist who said the United States had achieved nearly twice the growth of France and almost three times that of Germany over the last decade. It is ITG/Hoenig, not ING.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks net exports as a percentage of G.D.P. from 1982 to 2002. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); RECESSION (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TRENDS (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); MONETARY POLICY (64%); TAX LAW (63%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); ALAN GREENSPAN (55%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (93%); FRANCE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (92%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) EUROPE; GERMANY; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



987 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Radio Giant Defends Its Size at Senate Panel Hearing 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
The chief executive of the nation's largest radio conglomerate faced pointed questions today about his company's business practices at a Senate committee hearing on the consolidation of media owners.
 L. Lowry Mays, the chairman and chief executive of Clear Channel Communications Inc., said that deregulation and economies of scale had allowed his company to make investments to offer more choices to listeners. "The industry is healthier and more robust than ever before," Mr. Mays said at a hearing of the Senate Commerce Committee. 
 But several Democrats and Republicans and other witnesses, including Don Henley, a member of the Eagles who started the Recording Artists' Coalition, accused the company of using its size to intimidate competitors and coerce artists into promotional deals that benefit the company.
They cited anecdotes they said illustrated advertising pricing policies that undermine competing stations, payment deals that skirt laws prohibiting payola, purchases of stations across the Mexican border to bypass domestic ownership caps and the strong-arming of artists to perform with Clear Channel's concert production arm.
Mr. Mays denied that his company had pay-for-play practices or in any way coerced artists. He argued that his company was not anticompetitive. "The Justice Department has a lot of interaction with us, and they have approved every one of our applications," he said.
Today's hearing was the first of several planned by Senator John McCain, the Republican chairman of the committee, on the radio, newspaper and television industries. 
Michael K. Powell, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, has indicated he wants to relax -- or completely drop -- several media-ownership regulations.
Critics have said that the radio industry is a harbinger. Radio consolidation was spurred by the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which significantly relaxed ownership limits to help the struggling industry achieve economies of scale. 
Since then, Clear Channel Communications, based in San Antonio, has grown to 1,240 stations from fewer than 40. The country's largest radio conglomerate and the largest concert promoter, it is one of the 250 largest publicly traded companies in the country with $8 billion in revenue.
As a monolith in a formerly diffuse industry, the company has attracted increasing scrutiny. Senator Russell Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, has reintroduced legislation that is a thinly veiled attack on what some have called Clear Channel's practice of cross-leveraging its radio and concert division.
Clear Channel has become acutely aware of its heightened profile in Washington. In November, it opened a Washington office and hired Andrew W. Levin, 40, as its top lobbyist. Mr. Levin had been the telecommunications counsel to Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, the ranking minority member of the House Commerce Committee. 
Just how big Clear Channel has become, or how concentrated the radio industry has become, was a subject of debate. Mr. Mays and Mr. Powell have argued that Clear Channel owns only about 10 percent of 11,000 stations nationwide, hardly a monopoly figure, they say. 
Clear Channel, however, takes in about 20 percent of the advertising revenue and attracts about 25 percent of total listeners nationwide -- about a third of the population.
Mr. Mays noted that radio was by far the least consolidated of any of the media industries, with the 10 largest companies taking in a smaller share of the revenue compared with movie studios, cable, television stations, newspapers or record studios. 
But Mr. Henley argued that comparing radio with other industries was misleading because airwaves are public domain. "The airwaves belong to the public, just like national forests belong to the public," he said.
When examined market by market, the industry begins to resemble an oligopoly, said Jenny Toomey, executive director of the Future of Music Coalition, who also testified. In a recent report, the coalition said that four or fewer companies control 70 percent or more of market share in nearly all local markets. In New York City, the top four companies control 80 percent of the market.
Media ownership has special resonance for all politicians because they depend on access to local media outlets to reach constituents through both advertising and news coverage. 
Two weeks ago at another Senate Commerce Committee hearing, Mr. Powell appeared to sympathize with the senators, saying he was troubled and concerned about the radio industry's consolidation. But in a meeting with reporters this week, Mr. Powell questioned the methods of measuring consolidation. 
He pointed out that the owner of the second-largest number of radio stations, Cumulus Media, is much smaller than Clear Channel, with fewer than 250 stations. In terms of revenue, Cumulus, which focuses on small and midsize markets, has only 1.5 percent of industry revenue, making it the ninth-largest radio company by this measure.

GRAPHIC: Photo: L. Lowry Mays, left, the chairman and chief executive of Clear Channel Communications, listened as Don Henley testified yesterday. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) Chart: "Radio Coverage"Clear Channel Communications has become the largest radio broadcasting company in the country with a large presence in all of the top 10 markets. New YorkNO. OF STATIONS: 4 Los AngelesNO. OF STATIONS: 8 ChicagoNO. OF STATIONS: 6 San FranciscoNO. OF STATIONS: 7 DallasNO. OF STATIONS: 6 PhiladelphiaNO. OF STATIONS: 6 WashingtonNO. OF STATIONS: 8 BostonNO. OF STATIONS: 4 HoustonNO. OF STATIONS: 8 DetroitNO. OF STATIONS: 7 (Source: Clear Channel) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (91%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); LOBBYING (78%); WITNESSES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); EVENT MARKETING (74%); APPROVALS (73%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%) RADIO; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; MUSIC; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); TELEVISION; NEWSPAPERS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS 

COMPANY: CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%) CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC; FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION; RECORDING ARTISTS COALITION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (94%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%) SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS; 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%); JOHN DINGELL (79%); RUSS FEINGOLD (57%) LEE, JENNIFER 8; MAYS, L LOWRY; HENLEY, DON; POWELL, MICHAEL K; MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



988 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Empty Promises 

 BODY:
Everyone expects a certain amount of hokum in a State of the Union address. But for artful misdirection it's hard to top the three paragraphs in which President Bush promised to protect the environment while promoting energy independence. Set aside for the moment the meagerness of his menu, as well as the plain fact that he has spent the last two years rolling back laws and regulations that have long guarded the nation's air, water and public lands. The real tipoff to his intentions lies in the three proposals themselves. Whatever their long-term promise, none would do much good in the short term and some would actually do harm. 
 Mr. Bush asserted, for example, that his Clear Skies Initiative, which is designed to update parts of the Clean Air Act, would achieve a 70 percent cut in power plant pollution by 2018. What he did not say was that most of these cuts will come in the program's later years. In the meantime, his proposal allows for more pollution than would occur under strict application of current law -- parts of which Mr. Bush has already weakened and parts of which he intends to weaken. In addition, Clear Skies would do nothing to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide, a big contributor to global warming. 
 Mr. Bush's second proposal was his plan to prevent a repetition of the fires that have devastated Western forests in the last two summers. He calls this his Healthy Forest Initiative (the Bush people are great at euphemisms). Again the objective is laudable, the prescription worrisome. Among other defects, the plan would ease rules providing for public review of Forest Service decisions, reinforcing fears that the administration's main objective is to give the timber industry a blank check to log the forests in the guise of protecting them. 
Mr. Bush's last proposal -- and the high point of his presentation -- was a commitment to develop a hydrogen-powered car. He calls it the Freedom Car, the implication being that it will help free us from dependence on foreign oil. As indeed it might. President Clinton recognized the value of a hydrogen car and undertook a research program that Mr. Bush has rightly chosen to enlarge and accelerate. Unfortunately, however, the plan does nothing to encourage greater efficiency in the approximately 17 million or so passenger vehicles -- about half of them gas-guzzling S.U.V.'s and minivans -- that will come rolling off the assembly lines every year between now and 2020, which is about when Mr. Bush says we'll be able to buy our first hydrogen-powered car.
Indeed, Mr. Bush charges determinedly in the opposite direction. He has downsized the one government program aimed at developing marketable gas/electric hybrid cars, which even Detroit agrees is the way to way to go for the next decade. The fuel economy improvements he proposed a few weeks ago for S.U.V.'s are pathetically small. His Justice Department is supporting the auto makers in their lawsuit against California's innovative low-emission-vehicle program. Finally -- and most perversely of all -- his tax plan offers an even bigger break for small-business men who buy S.U.V.'s. 
It is possible that Mr. Bush's forthcoming budget proposal will offer more cheerful news for the country's environmental and energy future. The State of the Union offered almost none. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (87%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (87%); FOREST FIRES (86%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (86%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (85%); MOTOR VEHICLES (85%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (85%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); AIR QUALITY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); FIRES (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%); POWER PLANTS (57%) ENVIRONMENT; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; AIR POLLUTION; CARBON DIOXIDE; FORESTS AND FORESTRY; LOGGING INDUSTRY; FIRES AND FIREMEN; FOREST AND BRUSH FIRES; AUTOMOBILES; FUEL EFFICIENCY; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; TAX CREDITS; HYDROGEN; RESEARCH; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



989 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Can You Speak Pataki? 

 BODY:
New York City's mayor, Michael Bloomberg, and Gov. George Pataki must be speaking different languages. The Bloomberg budget proposal, complete with eye-straining, number-laden charts, begged for help. Mr. Pataki's plan answered with a snub. As the long process of reconciling state and city needs begins, the governor must understand that he cannot afford to let his budget stall the urban engines that run the entire state. 
 Mayor Bloomberg begins the response to Mr. Pataki's budget at a joint committee hearing on Monday in Albany. It is a crucial forum for the mayor. He will have to lay out a strong case for aid that begins by convincing his fellow Republicans of the need for a commuter tax that would spread the burden for city services to all who work in the city. His remarks should be directed in particular to the six Republican state senators from the city -- Frank Padavan, Serphin Maltese, John Marchi, Olga Mendez, Martin Golden and Guy Velella. Their constituents -- and the rest of New York -- will be watching to see whether they wring their hands helplessly or really use their status as part of the Senate majority to aid the city in its hour of crisis. 
 City residents who were impressed by Governor Pataki's apparent concern for their needs during the election season saw how quickly he swung back to his rural and suburban base when it came down to a question of who would bear the brunt of the state's economic crisis. The proposed cuts in state education aid would land heaviest on New York City and other urban areas. Mr. Bloomberg, whose help was invaluable in creating the governor's pro-city aura last fall, had asked for about $275 million in additional school money. Mr. Pataki instead proposes cutting the city's education money by more than $400 million. The governor's budget would wipe out universal kindergarten and the city's continuing effort to reduce class sizes in lower grades. These two programs have been successful in the city, especially in lower-income areas.
The state has created a health care program for the poor that is commendably generous. But since a large chunk of it is paid for by the localities, the bill has left both New York City and the surrounding suburban counties reeling. The mayor had hoped Mr. Pataki would agree to shoulder more of the cost. Instead his fellow Republican proposed cuts and hospital charges that would take an extra bite of about $140 million out of the city budget. The local teaching hospitals, which educate about 15 percent of the nation's doctors, would face added costs and crippling reductions in aid. In this battle, Mayor Bloomberg will be helped by county executives and other local leaders around the state who are facing many of the same problems.
Mr. Pataki has argued that he is actually proposing an extra $1.2 billion for the city. It is a phantom number, like many in the state's latest budget. It is inflated by federal emergency funds and rent owed the city that Mr. Bloomberg had already factored into his budget. Mr. Bloomberg has been speaking the language of the real world, while the governor remains locked in his fiscal doublespeak. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (86%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); MEDICAID (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); SUBURBS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); HOSPITALS (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (62%); HEALTH CARE (60%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; COMMUTING; EDITORIALS; URBAN AREAS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



990 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Elections in 2 German States May Be Setback to Schroder 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD BERNSTEIN 

DATELINE: HANOVER, Germany, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
The poster says, "Choose peace," and it shows Chancellor Gerhard Schroder next to Sigmar Gabriel, the candidate for Mr. Schroder's Social Democratic Party in a local election campaign viewed here as a referendum on the national government.
 The poster goes on to say, "With your vote for the S.D.P., you will give a clear no to war," an obviously intentional reminder of the national election Mr. Schroder won in September, when he squeaked into office by campaigning against American policy on Iraq. 
 But if opinion polls and commentators are to be believed, the peace appeal is not working this time around, not in a state that has one of the highest unemployment rates in Germany, even though Mr. Schroder is a favorite son, having served as the state's chief minister for eight years before becoming the national chancellor.
Lower Saxony is one of two states where local elections will be held on Sunday -- Hesse is the other -- and, while polls can always be wrong, the broad expectation is that Mr. Schroder and his party are going to come out embarrassingly badly in both.
For that reason there has been much talk that losses in Hesse and Lower Saxony would amount to a kind of vote of no confidence in Mr. Schroder, and that he could even resign as a result. 
Strictly speaking, what is at stake for Mr. Schroder are seats in the upper house of Parliament, which is already controlled by the opposition, so there would be no fundamental change in the balance of power in Germany and Mr. Schroder would have no obligation to step down.
Few people now think he would step down. Nonetheless, election losses would seriously erode his authority and prestige only four months after he began his second term, promising to reinvigorate the economy by a series of creative reforms.
"There's a long history of last-minute swings in Germany," said Helmut Jung, a political researcher at the Society for Market and Social Research in Hamburg, allowing for the possibility that the Social Democratic Party will benefit from a large undecided vote. "But the voters of Lower Saxony seem to be saying it's time for a change."
"This is Schroder country," Mr. Jung said of Lower Saxony. "Its loss would present a great psychological problem for Schroder, a symbolic defeat."
Lower Saxony is one of the industrial heartlands of Germany, a state that has six Volkswagen plants -- a local expression has it that if Volkswagen sneezes, Lower Saxony catches pneumonia -- and it currently has an unemployment rate of 8 percent.
It is also the kind of place that shows how quickly the political mood can change, and how quickly it has changed for Mr. Schroder, whose approval ratings have gone down to about 25 percent in recent days.
"If we fail in this election it will not be our failure," said Rainer Brenker, a spokesman in Hanover for the Social Democratic Party's campaign. "It will be because of the general mood in Germany."
Mr. Brenker was speaking in the party's drafty Hanover campaign headquarters, decorated with color posters of the candidates running for the state legislature. "A politics for reality," says one campaign poster. Another, with a picture of Mr. Gabriel, says simply, "The right one," a slogan seen all over this city.
What people here in both major parties -- the left-of-center Social Democratic Party and the right-of-center Christian Democratic Union -- agree on is that the economy, especially unemployment, has taken over from the conflict with Iraq as the issue of the moment. 
Mr. Brenker said that while the Iraq question -- which to the fury of American policy makers probably saved Mr. Schroder in the national election -- might still have emotional grip for some people, especially ardent Social Democrats, it had lost its power for a majority of the electorate.
The psychological effect of a loss of Lower Saxony -- if, in the end, the Social Democrats lose the state -- would be intensified by the fact that Mr. Gabriel, 43, has for a couple of years at least been presented as a protege of Mr. Schroder, 53, and even as a possible successor. He even looks a bit like Mr. Schroder and has some of the same mannerisms.
As the campaign has unfolded in the last two and a half weeks, it has taken on a conspicuous edge of nastiness. Christian Democrats here, clearly expecting a victory on Sunday, say that shows the Social Democrats' desperation to find an issue with some emotional traction.
One Social Democratic newspaper advertisement reads, "The C.D.U. would treat your children as criminals," a reference to a Christian Democratic proposal to allow judges to take DNA samples of criminal suspects. And then there is a poster asking people to declare a clear no to war by voting for the Social Democrats, as if a vote for the opposition would be a vote against peace.
None of this seems to have worked for Mr. Gabriel or his party, and a poster seen all over Hanover rubs it in. "This time C.D.U.," it says.
"Facing defeat, they started the Iraq theme in the last 10 days," said David McAllister, the Christian Democratic manager in Lower Saxony and a candidate for the state legislature. "They tried it unsuccessfully the last time, but we're all talking about all sorts of other things now."
Mr. McAllister, a German whose father was Scottish, continued, "Our approach is that things are so rotten in Germany that they can only get better with the C.D.U."
A small sample of local residents, taken in the last couple of days in the pedestrian mall in Hanover's center, reflected the Social Democratics' problem. The main complaint seemed to illustrate the sentiment, reflected in national opinion polls, that Mr. Schroder's government has been drifting.
"We have a choice between cholera and cancer," said Erich Schwarz, 72, a retired builder who said he was thinking of voting for the Greens. "Schroder will survive the four years, but he has to move. He has to do something." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); ELECTIONS (93%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); REFERENDUMS (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%); TERRORISM (59%) ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES; UNEMPLOYMENT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LABOR; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (84%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (93%) BERNSTEIN, RICHARD; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%) LOWER SAXONY, GERMANY (94%); HESSE, GERMANY (93%) GERMANY (95%); IRAQ (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (87%); UNITED STATES (79%) GERMANY; IRAQ; LOWER SAXONY (GERMANY); HESSE (GERMANY)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



991 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Pataki's Plan Would Raise City's Medicaid Bill 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
With its new plan to rein in the state's ballooning Medicaid budget, the Pataki administration has dealt a severe blow to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who is seeking relief from the city's growing health care costs. 
 Rather than absorb $200 million of the city's $4 billion annual Medicaid budget, as the city requested, Gov. George E. Pataki, in his new budget proposal released Wednesday, is asking each county to increase the portion they pay to hospitals and clinics under the Medicaid program. In exchange, the state would pick up their drug costs. 
 While this swap may benefit many counties in upstate New York, it is of no benefit to New York City, health care experts said, because New York City's hospital costs take up a larger percentage of the city's total Medicaid bill than of the bills of cities elsewhere in the state. 
Further, the Pataki administration wants to decrease the amount it pays to hospitals under Medicaid, which would reduce a major source of revenue for the city's public hospital system and could cost it millions of dollars annually. 
"This appears to be a fairly significant shift of costs to the city," said James R. Tallon Jr., president of the United Hospital Fund. "The plan does not respond to what the city and counties are asking for, which is picking up more share." 
The Medicaid rebuff -- the first salvo in the months-long budget battle in the state capital -- is just the latest in a string of icy responses Mr. Bloomberg has received from Albany to his myriad budget requests.
New Yorkers now use about $34 billion worth of medical services that are paid for by Medicaid. Unlike most other states, New York is reimbursed by the federal government for only 50 percent of that, with the state and city picking up the rest.
The state's share is about $12 billion. That is the second-largest expense, behind school aid, in its $89.6 billion budget. Counties pay roughly 17 percent of the $34 billion -- an arrangement that is duplicated in few other places in the country. 
The state and local portion of the Medicaid bill becomes particularly burdensome during economic downturns, when Medicaid costs always grow. But the problem has been worsened by rising health care costs generally in recent years. Medicaid costs rose 13 percent in the last fiscal year, the biggest increase since 1992. Governors around the nation have begged for relief from Washington. 
In New York, several counties have raised property taxes to cover rising Medicaid costs and, with Mayor Bloomberg, have asked Albany to put caps on local spending, reduce the menu of services offered to Medicaid beneficiaries and, in some cases, pick up some of the local share. 
Instead, the Pataki administration opted to swap some costs between the state and localities. Under the governor's proposal, the state would pay for all the local governments' pharmaceutical costs. In turn, local governments would raise their contribution to 37 percent from 25 percent for hospital stays and clinic visits. 
While some cities around the state fare well under this plan, New York City would receive no benefit, health care experts agree. That is largely because hospital inpatient stays represent about 35 percent of the city's overall Medicaid costs, state figures show, while its pharmacy costs make up only 15 percent of that bill. Counties outside New York City would enjoy $220 million in savings. 
"The measure does provide savings for a vast majority of counties," said Ken Brown, spokesman for the New York State Division of the Budget. 
Further, the plan calls for the state to reduce its rates to pharmacies and lower drug costs by imposing limits on drugs that can be prescribed. This may give substantial relief to the state's budget over time, especially if the Bush administration eventually includes prescription benefits in the federal Medicare program; many Medicare beneficiaries get their drugs through the Medicaid program. 
Mr. Bloomberg is expected to testify in Albany on Monday on various aspects of the state budget, and to press his case on Medicaid. City officials last night said they were still studying the governor's proposal.
Mr. Bloomberg will hardly be alone in his opposition to the governor's Medicaid proposal. Hospital officials are livid, because the proposal calls for a reduction in Medicaid reimbursements of roughly 6 percent, and a surcharge of 0.7 percent on hospital revenues. The Greater New York Hospital Association projects that it would cost hospitals -- including the public hospitals -- $545 million annually. Nursing homes and home health agencies face similar charges. 
These fees, and the proposal to scale back an insurance program for the working poor, have also angered Mr. Pataki's election-time ally, the health care union 1199-S.E.I.U. run by Dennis Rivera. The union plans to begin a television campaign to attack the program, and will pressure lawmakers to reject it. 
"We think that nobody should be talking about cuts to health care until people are talking about raising revenue in a fair and responsible way," said Jennifer Cunningham, executive director of the group. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (92%); MEDICAID (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); MEDICAID; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; HOSPITALS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



992 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: West Coast Law Firm Closing After Dot-Com Collapse 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN GLATER 

 BODY:
Partners at the San Francisco law firm of Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison decided yesterday to wind down the firm, bringing to an end a 77-year-old Bay Area institution that rose flamboyantly and rapidly on the Internet boom.
 The decision came after efforts to merge with Morgan Lewis & Bockius -- a 1,100-lawyer firm whose largest offices are in Philadelphia, Washington and New York -- failed on Wednesday, said William Sullivan, who is head of the national securities practice at Brobeck. 
 "That caused us to look at all the issues and see where we are," Mr. Sullivan said. He said the firm would meet with its lenders today and try to determine how it could go about an orderly, gradual winding up of its affairs. "What it means is that we'll work with Citibank to get them paid and probably have partners and others move to other firms." 
The announcement is remarkable for a firm whose lawyers in recent years boasted that they represented the future of the legal business and criticized their New York competitors as too slow to serve nimble start-up technology companies and Internet ventures. The firm had invested millions of dollars in television advertising. 
The firm broke the news to its associates in an afternoon videoconference, said one Brobeck lawyer, speaking on the condition that he not be identified. Further announcements are expected today, the lawyer said. 
The firm may not technically dissolve even though it may cease operating as a single unit as its lawyers leave, Mr. Sullivan said. He added that a priority would be ensuring that clients were not hurt by events at Brobeck. 
"It is a stunning and incredible tragedy," said Barry S. Levin, chairman of Heller Ehrman White & McAuliffe, another San Francisco firm. "A lot of people are going to want to understand how a firm of the stature of Brobeck could end up dissolving. Whether it's the Internet boom or growing too fast for the volume of work or too much emphasis on one practice area, I don't know."
Brobeck employs just over 500 lawyers around the country, down from more than 900 in 2000; it lost nearly one-third of its lawyers last year. Although the firm was founded in 1926 -- making it ancient in the San Francisco legal market -- it became far more prominent in the late 1990's during the dot-com boom. It grew rapidly by hiring law school graduates eager to live in San Francisco and work on the fringes of the high-technology economy. 
Its partners took home nearly $1.2 million each, on average, in 2000. The firm was also one of the first to offer lawyers fresh out of law school salaries on par with those paid by New York law firms -- as much as $125,000.
But those hefty salaries left Brobeck with high costs, and as some of the firm's clients stopped selling their stock, merging or in some cases operating, the firm found itself in an increasingly difficult position. While Brobeck has as clients a number of big companies, including Cisco Systems, Compaq and Gap, it tried to diversify its customer base too late, lawyers at other firms said.
Brobeck was an innovator among law firms, said Charles Maddock, a principal at Altman Weil, a consulting firm that advises law firms. "One of the things that they did was spend more than $10 million in corporate television advertising, when no one was doing that," he said. "That's a big investment."
Brobeck has suffered defections of some partners over the last year, some as recently as this week. The former chairman, Tower C. Snow, led nearly two dozen lawyers early last summer to join Clifford Chance, a British firm that previously did not have an office in San Francisco. Brobeck's other partners had terminated Mr. Snow when they learned that he was negotiating with Clifford Chance. 
Mr. Snow, who, through a Clifford Chance spokesman, declined to comment yesterday, had pledged that Brobeck would not lay off any associates while he was chairman. But his successors soon made clear that they would not abide by that promise. Like other Bay Area law firms whose clients had collapsed or had cut back sharply on spending, Brobeck began to lay off lawyers last year, even as the firm was entering costly new office space in Palo Alto. Mr. Sullivan said such real estate costs were a result of overbuilding when the economy was booming.
Within Brobeck, Mr. Snow was widely blamed for the firm's financial problems. Brobeck has tried for months to renegotiate its loan terms and has also sought merger partners. 
The legal landscape has changed drastically in recent years, making it difficult for firms even of Brobeck's size to compete, Mr. Levin said.
"The profession is consolidating rapidly," he said. "Where we used to compete on a local or regional basis, now more and more we are all competing for talent and clients on a national basis." 
Asked whether he could recall another collapse of such a large firm, Mr. Levin said, "I can't think of one." 
In the firm's offices yesterday, lawyers were shocked, said Nader Pakfar, an associate at Brobeck. "I feel terrible for Brobeck and my friends and colleagues here," he said, adding that as a lawyer who works on corporate transactions -- the kind of work that is not much in demand in the current economic climate -- he was not sure where or when he would find a job at another firm.
"I guess I'll go to Thailand and live on $200 a month," Mr. Pakfar said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); COASTAL AREAS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (51%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%) LEGAL PROFESSION; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: MORGAN LEWIS & BOCKIUS LLP (91%); HELLER EHRMAN LLP (84%); BROBECK PHLEGER & HARRISON LLP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BROBECK PHLEGER & HARRISON (LAW FIRM); MORGAN LEWIS & BOCKIUS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%) SIC8111 OFFICES OF LAWYERS; 

PERSON: WILLIAM P SULLIVAN (75%) GLATER, JONATHAN D 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



993 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Bush to Propose Expansion Of I.R.A.-Like Investments 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER and MARY WILLIAMS WALSH 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is working on a major shift in retirement savings plans that would allow most Americans to increase greatly the amount of money they could put away in tax-free accounts for retirement and other purposes, administration officials and Congressional staff members said yesterday.
 The change, which would primarily benefit the affluent who can afford to save more of their income, is aimed at encouraging an increase in the lagging personal savings rate and at simplifying the maze of retirement savings choices and other tax-deferred accounts for things like college education and medical expenses. 
 It also appears intended to respond to the administrators of mutual funds and pensions who complained that President Bush's proposal to eliminate personal taxes on dividends would undercut tax-deferred plans, which require recipients to pay income tax on withdrawal.
The move could increase tax revenues in the short term, helping the White House hold down the budget deficit over the next few years, but it would cause a substantial drain on tax revenues after 10 years or so, economists said. 
"This looks like a mechanism to allow people with lots of wealth to move large amounts of money into tax-sheltered vehicles," said Robert Greenstein, the executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group. "As a result, the budget deficits get worse and worse."
The proposal, which is expected to be included in the new budget that President Bush is to unveil on Monday, would allow people to keep existing individual retirement accounts. But it calls for phasing out future contributions of up to $3,000 a year to traditional I.R.A.'s, which allow many middle-income people not covered by a formal pension plan to avoid paying tax on their retirement savings until the money is withdrawn from the accounts.
At the same time, the proposal would allow anyone -- regardless of income -- to contribute up to $7,500 a year to a new retirement savings account similar to the existing Roth I.R.A. It would not offer an initial tax deduction but would allow all the money that accumulated in the account to be withdrawn tax free. The administration also wants to create a Lifetime Savings Account, also with a maximum annual contribution of $7,500. That account would allow tax-free withdrawals for any purpose and at any age.
The plan is expected to eliminate the extra penalties for withdrawing money prematurely from existing I.R.A.'s, encouraging individuals to convert the proceeds to tax-free accounts. Gains in the existing I.R.A. would be taxed, generating a windfall for the government.
Currently, participation in tax-free Roth retirement accounts is limited to individuals with incomes of less than $90,000 and couples with incomes below $150,000. Conversions from traditional I.R.A.'s to Roth accounts are also limited to those below certain income thresholds.
The proposed changes fit into a broader political goal of the Bush administration, analysts said. The administration's hope is to cultivate support in what it believes is a huge "investor class," middle- and upper-income people who invest in the markets and make heavy use of tax-advantaged individual retirement plans.
Theoretically, this class accounts for at least 40 million people who have individual retirement accounts and other forms of investments. In practice, it is unclear how many people define themselves largely as investors and vote accordingly.
The administration plan also fits into its larger goal of eventually overhauling the tax system. Implicit in many of the plans is the idea that investment income should not be taxed at all. The new plan, also aimed at simplifying many of the rules governing pension accounts, would be a big step in that direction, vastly expanding the amount of investment income that is permanently shielded from taxation.
"The idea is that a lot of people are reluctant to put their money into certain savings vehicles because they don't want their money tied up over the long haul," said a Republican Congressional aide who has been briefed on the proposal. "The advantages to this is that these workers would have access to the money when they need it."
But while the proposal would mean greater savings opportunities for nearly everyone, critics said it would not substantially help the bulk of Americans who earn less than $100,000 a year because they generally do not bump up against the current limits on contributions to tax-deferred and tax-free accounts. 
"This seems entirely oriented to the very richest end of society and extending them yet another break," said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a liberal group in Washington.
The plan, which was disclosed in part on Wednesday in USA Today and The Wall Street Journal, is likely to run into strong opposition from Democrats in Congress. But it is expected to win plaudits from Republicans and others who have long sought to encourage increased savings by reducing taxes on all forms of investment.
By the beginning of last year, about 42 million American households had put more than $2.5 trillion into I.R.A.'s, most of it in traditional accounts, according to the Investment Company Institute.
The new plans would be sold like the existing ones, through banks, brokerage houses and mutual fund companies.
Industry executives and tax specialists said it was not clear whether people would be able to put money into both the expanded tax-free retirement accounts and the lifetime savings plan, for a total of $30,000 per couple.
The White House is also looking at ways to simplify the rules that govern the retirement-savings plans that companies set up for their employees.
"A lot of people find the rules complex, and they feel there are other nondiscrimination rules that handle this fine," said Ron Gebhardtsbauer, senior pension fellow for the American Academy of Actuaries.
But he worried that the proposal might discourage small employers from offering pensions at all and not help low- and middle-income people save enough for retirement.
Advocates of the plan say that it would add to future investment and encourage enough economic growth over the long run to generate extra tax revenues. But opponents say that the proposal is an attempt to provide a politically popular tax break but one whose cost will be disguised well into the next decade.
"It is designed in such a way that virtually none of the cost appears in the first five years," Mr. Greenstein, the budget researcher, said. "We might even save a little money in the next five years. But we will begin to feel the effects in subsequent decades when we can least afford it." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); BONDS (72%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LIBERALISM (65%) PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) TREASTER, JOSEPH B; WALSH, MARY WILLIAMS; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



994 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1884 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE VICE PRESIDENT; 
Cheney, Little Seen by Public, Plays a Visible Role for Bush

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER and ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
As the White House buzzed with preparations for the State of the Union address and some allies protested the administration's march toward war in Iraq, President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney pulled up their chairs on Monday for their weekly lunch.
 Their privacy was sacrosanct, administration officials said: No one but the steward was allowed in the small dining room off the Oval Office. Afterward, as usual, Mr. Cheney refused to tell even his top aides what had occurred. 
 The vice president has largely disappeared from public view since his high-profile campaign appearances last fall. But he is hardly invisible to the president, the man Mr. Cheney's aides call his only constituent. At the start of the third year of the Bush administration, White House officials and outside advisers say Mr. Cheney is ever more powerful. In the last three months, he has immersed himself in three critical areas: national security, the economy and domestic defense. 
Mr. Cheney was a driving force behind the administration's Project Bioshield, a plan to protect the nation against biological attack that Mr. Bush announced in his State of the Union address. He was central to the creation of the president's $674 billion economic package. He is wired into the White House plans for a postwar Iraq.
And today, Mr. Cheney opened a public relations offensive to sell the nation on action against Saddam Hussein. In a speech here before the Conservative Political Action Conference, Mr. Cheney echoed the themes Mr. Bush laid out on Tuesday night, and closed with a sober warning: "We will not permit a brutal dictator with ties to terror and a record of reckless aggression to dominate the Middle East and to threaten the United States."
Administration officials say Mr. Cheney's largely secretive role -- and the fact that he is viewed as not having designs on the presidency himself -- are important explanations for his deep influence.
"The vice president is not looking to be president," Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff, said in an interview. "Do you know how unusual that is? He is here to be an adviser and counselor to the president."
While Mr. Cheney spends almost no time on social issues like education, Social Security or prescription drugs, aides said, he did serve as mediator between warring factions in the Justice Department and the White House counsel's office over the president's denunciation of the University of Michigan's race-conscious admissions policies.
"He was involved like he always is: deeply involved," said Alberto R. Gonzales, the White House counsel. Mr. Cheney, as is often the case, has not made his position known on the Michigan policies. He declined to be interviewed for this article.
One of Mr. Cheney's biggest concerns is bioterrorism, an issue his advisers say he has studied and worried about for years.
When Mr. Cheney made an unannounced trip last summer to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, administration officials said, he asked intensive questions about the vulnerability of the United States to biological attack. Dissatisfied with what he heard about the agency's plans for responding to a widespread outbreak of smallpox, the vice president returned to Washington and set up dozens of meetings, some at his home, with scientists, Central Intelligence Agency officers and other specialists to figure out what needed to be done.
Within months, officials said, President Bush had accepted almost all of Mr. Cheney's suggestions except for one: a call for every single American to be vaccinated for smallpox. To the president, the idea seemed excessive.
But the episode illustrates how Mr. Cheney immerses himself with great secrecy in the most momentous issues before the Bush administration, then quietly drives his tough views across the landscape of government. "When he does a deep dive," Mr. Card said, "he gets down into the weeds."
Mostly, administration officials said, Mr. Cheney wins.
"He's not the only reason that people are focused on this," said one senior official who works with Mr. Cheney on bioterrorism. "What he has excelled at is pushing the system because of who he is."
Mr. Cheney's influence has expanded even as the president has become a more confident, steadier leader than he was in early 2001, with less need for the vice president's stature to prop him up. Administration officials say Mr. Bush has developed more confidence in Mr. Cheney, who turned 62 today.
At the White House, officials say, Mr. Cheney's aggressive support for an attack on Iraq has prevailed, along with that of Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld, over the months of caution of Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. He takes one of the hardest lines at the White House against North Korea, and has long been the administration's most outspoken critic against Yasir Arafat.
The job, Mr. Cheney's friends say, suits him. He can both counsel the president and plunge into the subjects that interest him, using the full powers of his office to assemble facts and marshal his arguments, without feeling any pressure to justify himself to voters.
Steady, solid and opaque, with a history of heart problems that his friends say will keep him from ever seeking the presidency, Mr. Cheney seems dismissive, if not disdainful, of the traditional view about the public obligations of his job. The vice president rarely gives interviews, infrequently gives policy speeches and spends blocks of time -- much of December, for example -- at his mountain home in a gated community in Jackson, Wyo., where he kept in touch with the White House via videoconference.
Mr. Cheney has rarely used his secure, undisclosed locations in the past year, but for security reasons he still limits the amount of time he and Mr. Bush are together outside the White House. 
Mr. Cheney has dodged all questions about his conduct as chief executive at Halliburton, the energy company under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission for its accounting practices. He has also repeatedly declined to identify the people who were consulted by his energy task force in 2001.
Both Mr. Cheney and Mr. Bush have said that the vice president will be on the ticket again in 2004, barring complications with his health, which his doctors have said is good: Mr. Cheney is still down 20 pounds from his weight before he became vice president. Aides say he works out most mornings on a treadmill or stationary bicycle . 
He is also described as watching his diet, or at least careful to eat salads at his lunches with Mr. Bush, a fitness enthusiast. But unlike the early-to-bed, teetotaler president, Mr. Cheney makes occasional forays to the dinner tables of establishment Washington, like a party he attended last spring at the Georgetown home of Sally Quinn and Ben Bradlee, the former executive editor of The Washington Post.
Mr. Cheney and the president, aides say, do not socialize together much, and Mr. Cheney is not a regular weekend visitor to Camp David. Since mid-November, Mr. Cheney has slipped away for a weekend day of pheasant hunting in Pennsylvania and another day of duck hunting in Arkansas. Tonight, Mr. Cheney joined Mr. Bush at a White House dinner for the military's senior worldwide commanders. 
On national security, Mr. Cheney has been consumed by planning for the political reconstruction of a post-Hussein Iraq. The plan, so far, is for an American military commander to run the country alongside a civilian administrator, with an eventual transition to an Iraqi-led government. Toward that end, Mr. Cheney met for 45 minutes in his office in mid-January with Barham Salih, the prime minister of the eastern Kurdish zone in Iraq and one of several potential future leaders of that country.
"He asked questions that signaled to me he's deeply involved in this process," said Mr. Salih. "We talked about the issues of transition."
On domestic defense, Mr. Cheney's office has become a mini-research center on bioterrorism. (I. Lewis Libby, Mr. Cheney's chief of staff, is called "germ boy" by other White House aides.) In December, Mr. Cheney spent two hours in an unannounced visit to the National Institutes of Health, where he is said to have become absorbed by research into the development of a vaccine for the ebola virus, a potential weapon of bioterrorists. He is now pursuing a plan to offer government incentives to drug companies to develop better smallpox and anthrax vaccines.
On the economy, Mr. Cheney was a forceful advocate of the centerpiece of the president's economic plan, the elimination of the dividend tax. Aides said he delved into in the kind of detail that the president avoids. 
"I've seen him go and look at charts of quarter-by-quarter progress of consumption and investment on G.D.P. charts," said one adviser. "He's got his little pencil in hand and he's working through the charts, saying 'What does this mean?' "
In coming months, Mr. Cheney is scheduled to criss-cross the country promoting a plan that has run into major objections from voters and Republicans and Democrats in Congress.
"When the administration is in treacherous waters, they'll send the vice president out," said Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat.
But at a speech earlier this month at the United States Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Cheney read his lines in such a Cheney-esque monotone that he lulled some members of his audience to sleep. Mr. Cheney's advisers acknowledged that his speech on the economy will need punching up before the vice president takes it on the road.
On Capitol Hill, Mr. Cheney, a former Wyoming congressman, is the administration's chief schmoozer and enforcer, and often gives counsel on national security. Two months ago, Senators Pat Roberts, Republican of Kansas, and Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, sought Mr. Cheney's advice about traveling to Baghdad to meet with Mr. Hussein about the fate of Capt. Michael Scott Speicher, a Navy pilot shot down in the 1991 Persian Gulf war whose remains were never recovered.
"The vice president weighed in and said now was not the time to go," Mr. Roberts said. The senators wrote a letter to Mr. Hussein instead.
Just before Christmas, Mr. Cheney quietly invited the House speaker, J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, and Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the new Republican majority leader, to talk with a few other lawmakers about Medicare reform and Mr. Bush's economic package. 
"You feel when you've talked to the vice president you've talked to the president," said Representative Rob Portman, an Ohio Republican who attended the White House meeting.
In 2004, White House aides say that Mr. Cheney will be dispatched frequently around the nation, where he is a superstar among the Republican faithful.
"This is someone who is an incredibly effective retail politician," said Ken Mehlman, the White House political director.
Friends note that Mr. Cheney, who dislikes the backslapping of the campaign trail, dislikes losing a lot more.
"One of the formative experiences of his life was being chief of staff during the Ford presidency when they lost the White House," said former Representative Vin Weber of Minnesota, now an influential lobbyist, who served with Mr. Cheney in the House. "If you've been through that experience, you don't want to go through it again."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Dick Cheney will be speaking out repeatedly in coming weeks about American policy in Iraq. Yesterday, he addressed a conservative group in Crystal City, Va. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TERRORISM (87%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: ;CONSERVATIVE POLITICAL ACTION CONFERENCE 

INDUSTRY:  SIC2844 TOILET PREPARATIONS; 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (77%); ALBERTO GONZALES (58%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; SCHMITT, ERIC; CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) ; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



995 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-18

Bush Warns Iraq: Weeks Remain to Disarm
President Bush all but set a timetable for war, warning Saddam Hussein that Iraq has "weeks not months" to disarm or face an invasion. The administration said that nine countries have committed some troops and more than 20 have pledged full access to military bases, airstrips and ports. A1

Three categories of evidence, involving Iraq's concealment of weapons programs, its purchase of materials for making weapons and its ties to terrorist groups, will form the crux of Colin L. Powell's United Nations presentation next week. A1

Days after delivering a broadly negative report on Iraq's cooperation with international inspectors, Hans Blix, the chief chemical and biological weapons inspector for the U.N., challenged several of the Bush Administration's assertions about Iraqi cheating and the notion that time was running out for disarming Iraq through peaceful means. A10

Russia's long-stated skepticism and even hostility toward American military action in Iraq may be softening. President Vladimir V. Putin said Russia might support new "solutions" to the Iraqi crisis should it be proven that Baghdad was thwarting U.N. weapons inspectors. A7

The U.N., stepping up the pace of its contingency planning for rebuilding Iraq after war, has concluded the costs will run to at least $30 billion in the first three years. A10

N. Korea Moving Fuel Rods
American spy satellites over North Korea have detected what appear to be trucks moving the country's stockpile of 8,000 nuclear fuel rods out of storage, prompting fears within the Bush administration that the country is preparing to produce half-a-dozen nuclear weapons. A1

Israel's Sharon Clamps Down
Israeli forces staged two operations in the West Bank, fatally shooting two Palestinians. The operations came after an election victory by Ariel Sharon, who pledged a tough approach toward the conflict. A6

NATIONAL A19-26

Cheney's Influence Grows Even More in White House
White House officials say Vice President Dick Cheney is more powerful than ever. In the last three months, he has immersed himself in three critical areas: national security, the economy and domestic defense. A1

Homeland Security Stumbles
The new Department of Homeland Security was forced to explain why undercover government investigators were able to enter the country recently using counterfeit identification papers and bogus names. A13

Life Sentence for Shoe Bomber
Richard C. Reid, who said he was a member of Al Qaeda and pleaded guilty to trying to blow up a trans-Atlantic flight with explosives concealed in his shoes, was sentenced to life in prison. A13

Linking Data for Law Officials
Local law enforcement officials will soon have access to a database of 50 million overseas visa applications when four separate federal and local law enforcement computer systems are linked within the next month. A12

Ban on Sniper Rifles Is Sought
A gun-control group has begun a campaign against sniper rifles, saying the rifles, together with armor-piercing ammunition, pose a threat to airliners at airports. A13

Snowmobile Report Ignored
The Bush administration's decision to continue to allow snowmobiles in two national parks conflicted with its internal report, which recommended banning the machines. A26

Judicial Nomination Approved
The Senate Judiciary Committee voted to approve the nomination of Miguel Estrada, a Washington lawyer, to be a judge on a federal appeals court that is regarded as a bullpen for Supreme Court candidates. A26

Age Bias Settlement Reached
The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission announced its largest settlement ever in a discrimination lawsuit when California's state pension fund agreed to pay $250 million to disabled public safety officers who sued over age discrimination. A19

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

State Releases Plans For Security Spending
Nearly a year and a half after the Sept. 11 attacks, the Pataki administration has finally told the federal government how it plans to spend hundreds of millions of dollars to better prepare New York State to deal with future terrorist attacks. A1

Indian Point Plan Rejected
New York State said it could not approve emergency plans for the area around the Indian Point nuclear power plant, asking the federal government to take the next step in the fierce battle over the two reactors in Westchester County. B1

Automated Future at the M.T.A.
The future of public transportation will include fewer token booth clerks, more vending machines and automated turnstiles, more electronic voices and signs and more computerized surveillance. And transit officials hope to bring that future to subways and buses sooner than many riders realize. B1

Jogger Theory Opposed
Prosecutors said there was no evidence to support the Police Department's theory of what occurred during the 1989 attack on a Central park jogger: that five teenagers "most likely" had a role in the assault. B6

Neediest Cases B6

WEEKEND E1-32; E33-40

ESCAPES F1-14

OBITUARIES C11

SPORTS D1-7

Easing of Title IX Proposed
A Bush administration commission recommended easing the standards for satisfying Title IX, the law that expanded opportunities for girls and women in sports. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Overhaul of Retirement Plans
To encourage personal savings, the Bush administration is working on a major shift in retirement savings plans that would enable most Americans to greatly increase the amount of money they could put away in tax-free accounts. A1

Slow Growth in 4th Quarter
The economy grew a meager 0.7 percent in the fourth quarter last year, as gains in business investment were not enough to compensate for a drop in auto sales. C1

New Worry for AOL Investors
For many AOL Time Warner investors, the worst news in the company's gloomy financial report was the disclosure that the problems had spread beyond America Online to Time Warner's cable systems. C1

Diet Beverage From Snapple
Snapple announced it would introduce a fortified juice to be marketed as an alternative to meal replacement drinks such as Slim-Fast. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A28-29

Editorials: Empty promises; can you speak Pataki? Ethan Bronner on the European worldview.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E28
TV Listings E31
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (85%); SENTENCING (83%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); DISARMAMENT (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (75%); EXPLOSIVES (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); AL-QAEDA (70%); ESPIONAGE (69%); PRISONS (65%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (64%); GUILTY PLEAS (63%); JAIL SENTENCING (63%); COUNTERFEITING (60%); SHOOTINGS (50%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (85%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (78%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 



996 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Trump Plans to Try Again With Casino Bond Offering 

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
Donald J. Trump is hoping to raise nearly $500 million in junk bonds, almost nine months after he canceled a similar offering because investors demanded too high an interest rate.
 Mr. Trump is betting that stronger financial results at his casinos, and increased demand for junk bond offerings, will allow him to raise money at a lower interest rate than he could have received last May, when he withdrew the earlier financing. But some junk bond investors briefed on the terms of the latest deal said they were still wary of Mr. Trump. 
 Many bondholders remain angry with Mr. Trump for threatening to default on some of his casinos' debt in October 2001, when he argued that a weak economy after the terrorist attacks made the outlook for the casinos uncertain. He ultimately paid the interest due on the bonds.
But Mr. Trump may be willing to offer a rate that is attractive enough to overcome investor misgivings. 
"I'm willing to listen," said Sandy Rufenacht, manager of the Janus High-Yield bond fund, who plans to meet with Mr. Trump today. "We've had a lot of appetite for new issues." 
But his decision on buying bonds, Mr. Rufenacht said, will depend on whether "this can be structured in a way favorable not just to Donald, but to bondholders."
Mr. Trump is planning to offer a rate of 11 percent, according to investors who have been briefed on the proposal, two percentage points below what he would have paid last spring. That is still substantially higher than the 8 percent to 9 percent rate on recent bond offerings from other casinos, said Barbara Cappaert, an analyst at KDP Investment Advisors, a research firm that specializes in junk bonds.
The casino properties owned by Mr. Trump have reported stronger results recently. 
Yesterday, Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts, a holding company whose operations include three Atlantic City casinos and a riverboat in Gary, Ind., reported cash flow of $64 million for the fourth quarter of 2002, a 2 percent increase from the period a year earlier. Cash flow for the full year was up 19 percent compared with 2001.
The holding company still reported a loss of 78 cents a share for the fourth quarter, partly because it carries a lot of debt. That compared with a loss of 46 cents a share in the quarter in 2001. Its stock rose 3 cents yesterday, to $2.63 a share. 
Given Mr. Trump's reputation, the investment bankers underwriting the debt, which include Deutsche Bank as well as Credit Suisse First Boston and UBS, have been informally meeting with prospective investors over the last week and a half to gauge interest before beginning to market the bonds next week. 
Through the offering, Mr. Trump hopes to raise $470 million for a newly formed entity called Trump Casino Holdings. The bonds would be backed by the Trump Marina Hotel and Casino in Atlantic City and the riverboat in Indiana, as well as fees from Mr. Trump's management of Indian-owned property in Coachella, Calif. Proceeds will be used to retire existing debt, including $242 million in bonds due this November.
Mr. Trump and his investment bankers have told prospective investors that $70 million of the bonds are already spoken for, according to one executive briefed on the prospective offering. Much of that amount would be bought by Mr. Trump, and some would potentially be bought by underwriters.
A spokesman for Deutsche Bank, Ted Meyer; a spokesman for Credit Suisse, John Gallagher; and a spokeswoman for UBS, Denise Kazmier, all declined to comment on the offering.
Mr. Trump said few investors he had spoken with recently had mentioned his threatened default in 2001. He would not comment on the terms or the timing of the potential deal.
Strong demand for new offerings of junk bonds is working in Mr. Trump's favor. "If you covered over the Trump name on the prospectus, you wouldn't have any trouble getting this deal done," said one investor who was considering whether to buy some of the offering.
There has been particularly strong demand for casino bonds, which have been among the best performers in the junk bond market. Last year, casino bonds had a total return of 13.5 percent, compared with a return of 0.17 percent for the junk bond market over all, according to indexes kept by CIBC World Markets.
But investors could receive better value by buying some older Trump bonds, issued by an entity called Trump Atlantic City. Those bonds trade at 78 cents on the dollar and yield 20.9 percent, said Jacques Cornet, a bond analyst with CIBC. They are backed by Mr. Trump's two other Atlantic City casinos, the Trump Plaza and Trump Taj Mahal. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH YIELD BONDS (92%); CASINOS (91%); BONDS (91%); BOND ISSUES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CASH FLOW (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); RESORTS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); TERRORISM (54%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: TRUMP ENTERTAINMENT RESORTS INC (65%); GOLDEN NUGGET ATLANTIC CITY LLC (60%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: TRUMP HOTELS AND CASINO RESORTS INC 

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (65%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); NAICS713290 OTHER GAMBLING INDUSTRIES (60%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (60%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (93%) TRUMP, DONALD J; ATLAS, RIVA D

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); GARY, IN, USA (67%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003 

 
