

801 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Pink Slip? Gold Handshake? Buyouts Can Bridge the Gap

BYLINE:  By JAN M. ROSEN 

 BODY:
AT least a million people have been caught in the downsizing wave that has swept corporate America over the last year or so, and some experts say the reductions may not be complete, even though the economy is recovering from a recession.
 The most frequent way of cutting jobs has been through layoffs, but some employees, particularly those who have been around for many years, have been offered buyout packages that often encourage early retirement. 
 If you receive an offer, you can refuse it, but you run the risk of being laid off eventually if too few people accept the buyouts.
Avery E. Neumark, partner in charge of employee benefits and executive compensation at Rosen Seymour Shapss Martin & Company, an accounting firm in New York, says it may be wise to try negotiating the best buyout deal possible, then look for another job if you are not ready to retire. Severance packages in layoffs, he said, tend to be less generous than in buyouts, with fewer weeks' pay at termination and fewer other benefits. 
When it comes to layoffs, Mr. Neumark said, "sometimes, you don't have a choice." 
Buyout candidates who are not ready to retire should ask their current employers for outplacement services to help them find other work, benefits experts say. Another important consideration is health insurance; employees should negotiate for continued coverage, they say. 
Of course, some employers may not want to bargain. "For a company, the best practice is not to negotiate," said Diane Lerner, a senior compensation consultant in New York for Watson Wyatt, the consulting firm. 
Enhanced packages for individual employees, she said, could affect employee morale and even lead to litigation. 
Nevertheless, Alan M. Johnson, managing director of Johnson Associates, a compensation consulting firm in Manhattan, said, "In the real world there is often room to negotiate, even with companies that say a package is nonnegotiable."
For example, Mr. Johnson said, an employee who has a company car may negotiate to keep it or buy it from the company at book value. Or an employee who has unused sick time or who worked on holidays might say to his boss, "Two more weeks would make me whole." A worker who is taking care of a sick parent might explain the situation and win extra weeks or months of employment because of hardship, he said, especially when the downsizing is being done in waves, not all at once.
"If you want something, ask for it," Mr. Johnson said, though he advised workers to think through their needs for 24 hours before making a request. "Ask for what is important, and ask once. Don't make serial requests. This is not a time to be humble or shy, but be courteous."
You should also be realistic, he added. "Generally the advice is: Get the most you can and get on with your life."
THAT is what Tracy Sylvester, 35, of Baltimore, did last summer when Sylvan Learning Systems, where he worked in information technology, decided to outsource his job and offered severance packages to him and his technology colleagues. "They offered me what I thought was a very fair package," he said, adding that a friend who is a lawyer agreed. Mr. Sylvester had worked for Sylvan about a year and was given several weeks' salary and outplacement services and was allowed to keep his stock options. 
He said some colleagues had negotiated for improvements in their packages but that he "was far more concerned about maintaining a good relationship, good recommendations," than haggling for two more weeks.
He said he spent the summer looking for a job, to no avail. "One of the things that put things in perspective for me was Sept. 11," he said. "I realized, 'A lot of people are worse off than you -- you're healthy and still have money in your bank account.' "
He became an independent consultant and is now putting in a new computer system for the College of Notre Dame, in Baltimore. The project will take at least two years.
Not everyone who expects to receive a buyout gets one, or at least the one they want. Jean James, 42, of Glen Ridge, N.J., who worked several years at Quest Diagnostics, selling clinical laboratory services like blood tests to doctors, was recruited by a smaller rival, Clinical Diagnostic Services. Her employment contract at that company had provided for a buyout if things did not work out. The new employer, however, was taken over by Quest, which made her an offer she did not consider viable.
She would have been let go after a couple of months, she said, and had to sign a one-year noncompete agreement to collect benefits under a new buyout package that superseded the one in her contract. "You can't vanish out of sight for a year and expect to resume," she said. "I'm a working mother with three children to put through college."
She says she feels fortunate because she found another job and has a husband who is employed. Still, she says, she continues to negotiate with her former employer for benefits she says she deserves.
Mr. Neumark suggests asking a lawyer or financial adviser to evaluate any buyout package. A professional can provide guidance on questions like whether to take a lump sum or monthly payments, whether to continue certain benefits if you must pay for them, and how to handle any stock options you may hold.
One low-cost source of advice is My Professional Advice in Baltimore (888 367-5252; www.myprofessionaladvice.com). The company contracts with lawyers, career counselors, accountants and other professionals to offer personal advice over the telephone at $34.95 a call. Legal documents, including buyout and severance agreements, can be reviewed for an additional $15 for up to five pages.
The 2001 tax law gives employees new "portability rules" on retirement savings, said Craig Brimhall, vice president for wealth strategies at American Express Financial Advisors. The choices include leaving the money in the former employer's plan, rolling it over into an Individual Retirement Account (and from there possibly into a new employer's plan) and cashing it out, he said.
For people planning to take early retirement, there is a useful quirk in the law: pension plans are allowed to make distributions to people as young as 55. But early retirees should remember that a 10 percent tax penalty is normally due on distributions from retirement plans before age 59 1/2. There is no penalty if the money is kept with the former employer's plan.
Someone who plans to continue working might prefer to roll over pension money into an I.R.A., Mr. Brimhall said, because it offers greater control over investment decisions. This is particularly important for people whose employers' financial situations are shaky or who have a large portion of pension assets in company stock. To avoid 20 percent withholding, tax rollovers must be done by direct transfer from a plan's trustee to an I.R.A. custodian.
"Once you make a decision, it is hard to reverse," Mr. Brimhall said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tracy Sylvester, 35, accepted a buyout package last year. He is now working in Baltimore as a consultant on computer systems. (Marty Katz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); SEVERANCE PAY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BEST PRACTICES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); WORKPLACE MORALE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); SICK LEAVE (61%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (57%); LITIGATION (50%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



802 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: The Effectiveness Of Global Lenders 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The article presented an out-of-date and one-sided picture of the International Monetary Fund. 
 One critic was quoted accusing the I.M.F. of seeking as a matter of policy to make financial crises worse. A country normally turns to the fund as a crisis is deepening. While I.M.F. assistance ideally will ameliorate the situation rapidly -- and sometimes does -- it ultimately is aimed at creating breathing room for a country to address its economic problems. 
Another critic was quoted as claiming that the conditions attached to I.M.F. programs fail to address the big picture. This does not take account of all the work in recent years to refocus the fund's lending programs on the key macroeconomic and structural measures that can help to bring a country out of a crisis. The evidence is clear that this effort has made a difference. From Brazil in 1998 to Turkey right now, loan conditions have concentrated on the big picture -- and have made a difference in bringing about recovery.
The article also says the fund has been criticized as failing to encourage countries to make the most difficult economic decisions. This is patently untrue, but in a way refreshing, since we normally are accused of steamrollering national sovereignty.
Finally, the article asserts that the fund will have much to answer for in Argentina, and that it is shifting blame for the crisis onto the Argentines. This misses the point. In Argentina, the I.M.F. supported an economic program that over the past decade enjoyed widespread popular support. There certainly was reason to believe that it could succeed. To have undercut confidence in those policies would no doubt have left us with far more to answer for.

THOMAS C. DAWSON
Washington, March 19

The writer is director of the external relations department at the International Monetary Fund.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); WRITERS (73%); TRENDS (69%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; FOREIGN AID 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

PERSON: DAWSON, THOMAS C 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



803 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Suicidal Lies 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
The outcome of the war now under way between the Israelis and Palestinians is vital to the security of every American, and indeed, I believe, to all of civilization. Why? Quite simply because Palestinians are testing out a whole new form of warfare, using suicide bombers -- strapped with dynamite and dressed as Israelis -- to achieve their political aims. And it is working.
 Israelis are terrified. And Palestinians, although this strategy has wrecked their society, feel a rising sense of empowerment. They feel they finally have a weapon that creates a balance of power with Israel, and maybe, in their fantasies, can defeat Israel. As Ismail Haniya, a Hamas leader, said in The Washington Post, Palestinians have Israelis on the run now because they have found their weak spot. Jews, he said, "love life more than any other people, and they prefer not to die." So Palestinian suicide bombers are ideal for dealing with them. That is really sick. 
 The world must understand that the Palestinians have not chosen suicide bombing out of "desperation" stemming from the Israeli occupation. That is a huge lie. Why? To begin with, a lot of other people in the world are desperate, yet they have not gone around strapping dynamite to themselves. More important, President Clinton offered the Palestinians a peace plan that could have ended their "desperate" occupation, and Yasir Arafat walked away. Still more important, the Palestinians have long had a tactical alternative to suicide: nonviolent resistance, a la Gandhi. A nonviolent Palestinian movement appealing to the conscience of the Israeli silent majority would have delivered a Palestinian state 30 years ago, but they have rejected that strategy, too.
The reason the Palestinians have not adopted these alternatives is because they actually want to win their independence in blood and fire. All they can agree on as a community is what they want to destroy, not what they want to build. Have you ever heard Mr. Arafat talk about what sort of education system or economy he would prefer, what sort of constitution he wants? No, because Mr. Arafat is not interested in the content of a Palestinian state, only the contours.
Let's be very clear: Palestinians have adopted suicide bombing as a strategic choice, not out of desperation. This threatens all civilization because if suicide bombing is allowed to work in Israel, then, like hijacking and airplane bombing, it will be copied and will eventually lead to a bomber strapped with a nuclear device threatening entire nations. That is why the whole world must see this Palestinian suicide strategy defeated.
But how? This kind of terrorism can be curbed only by self-restraint and repudiation by the community itself. No foreign army can stop small groups ready to kill themselves. How do we produce that deterrence among Palestinians? First, Israel needs to deliver a military blow that clearly shows terror will not pay. Second, America needs to make clear that suicide bombing is not Israel's problem alone. To that end, the U.S. should declare that while it respects the legitimacy of Palestinian nationalism, it will have no dealings with the Palestinian leadership as long as it tolerates suicide bombings. Further, we should make clear that Arab leaders whose media call suicide bombers "martyrs" aren't welcome in the U.S.
Third, Israel must tell the Palestinian people that it is ready to resume talks where they left off with Mr. Clinton, before this intifada. Those talks were 90 percent of the way toward ending the occupation and creating a Palestinian state. Fourth, U.S. or NATO troops must guarantee any Israeli-Palestinian border.
"The Spanish Civil War was the place where the major powers all tested out their new weapons before World War II," said the Israeli political theorist Yaron Ezrahi. "Well, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict today is the Spanish Civil War for the 21st century. A big test is taking place of whether suicide terrorism can succeed as a strategy for liberation. It must be defeated, but that requires more than a military strategy."
The Palestinians are so blinded by their narcissistic rage that they have lost sight of the basic truth civilization is built on: the sacredness of every human life, starting with your own. If America, the only reality check left, doesn't use every ounce of energy to halt this madness and call it by its real name, then it will spread. The Devil is dancing in the Middle East, and he's dancing our way. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); SUICIDE (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); HAMAS (78%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (67%); HIJACKING (64%); PEACE PROCESS (53%) PALESTINIANS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); UNITED STATES (93%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



804 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: KANDAHAR; 
U.S. Soldiers Wearing Many Hats As Afghans Look to Them for Help

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN 

DATELINE: KANDAHAR, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
Several months ago, a women's health clinic was unceremoniously evicted from its rented premises here by the property's owner, a newly returned exile. The clinic's director, Nafisa Khousal, went to the police station, distraught, saying the local intelligence chief had helped the owner throw her out. 
 It was sad business as usual here, the powerful afflicting the powerless. But when Ms. Khousal returned home that day, four foreign men with weapons and sunglasses were waiting for her. They told her they had been following when the intelligence chief came to the clinic, and when she went to the police station. They said they wanted to help her. 
 They secured two guards from the police chief for protection. They helped Ms. Khousal find the clinic a new home. The intelligence chief even came and apologized -- something she does not think he did of his own volition. 
"I'm very happy with the Americans," she said of her protectors. "They are very good people. They helped us, when Afghans would not do anything."
The Americans. More than 4,000 of them -- along with Canadians, Jordanians and other coalition forces -- are based at the Kandahar airport. Dozens of Special Operations soldiers are in two sites in the city itself. Their ostensible purpose is to track down the remnants of Al Qaeda and the Taliban across Afghanistan -- an unfinished job, as the recent battle at Shah-i-Kot shows.
But as Ms. Khousal's story suggests, their role sometimes stretches beyond that. The American-led coalition forces are acting as an intelligence force, an economic engine and mediators among rivals here. The coalition troops here are not called a peacekeeping force, but they clearly are a pacifying one.
Yet with the presence of American aid agencies still limited here, American troops are left in an awkward position. Many Afghan citizens look to them for help, and express frustration that, at times, military activities here seem to hint at nation-building -- and then stop short.
Many of the forces' activities beyond basic security are motivated by practical self-interest. Force protection requires not isolation, but communication. If, as appears likely, Americans are to be here for many more months, they cannot afford to alienate the population that surrounds them, or even to be out of touch with it. 
They must also keep close tabs on the perception of the people they have chosen to back, lest Afghans blame them for local proxies' abuses of power. In Kandahar, Gul Agha Shirzai has been ensconced in a governorship with American support. Recently, when Mr. Shirzai returned from a trip to the United Arab Emirates, it was an United States Army major who carried his luggage off the plane. The Americans have also given Mr. Shirzai's brother a major sinecure directing airport operations and security.
Rivals complain that when they meet with Mr. Shirzai, he instantly runs to report to the Americans. "With the Americans around, Mr. Gul Agha is a little bit brave," said a discontented commander, Abdul Halim.
So the Americans also visit and seek to mollify men like Mr. Halim, as they did a few weeks ago. At the base where he is sulking on the outskirts of Kandahar, he told the uniformed Americans that it was they, not the people of Kandahar, who had selected Mr. Shirzai as governor. "I said, this is not fair that all the mujahedeen who were here fighting are sitting in their homes and he has all the power," Mr. Halim said.
The Americans agreed that it was not fair, he said. But they urged him to tolerate it for now, saying it was an emergency situation. "With the passage of time, everyone will get their jobs and a fair place," he said the Americans had told him. 
The Americans also regularly visit Mullah Naqib Ullah, a powerful onetime rival to Mr. Shirzai, and he sends a representative to check in with them each day. They even flew him to a ship in the Arabian Sea for treatment of a neurological condition, Mullah Naqib said. 
They ask what Mullah Naqib hears from the people, and whether it is good for the Americans to stay. They come asking him to tell his people that the Americans are not an invading or occupying force, but "that they are here to rebuild Afghanistan."
In truth, how much active rebuilding there will be is unclear. The local military corps commander, Muhammad Khan, said American soldiers based at the compound of Mullah Muhammad Omar, the former Taliban leader, had trained 80 of his soldiers in how to deal properly with the population, in conducting searches of cars and the like. 
But such accounts are fairly rare. Even the economic effects of the troops' presence, while not insignificant, have been mostly ancillary. About 130 day laborers are employed at the base for $6 a day, six days a week, along with dozens of interpreters. Coalition troops, with heavily armed guards, enter the city, to order everything from metal structures for temporary offices to catering for parties. The base is donating a new radio and television studio to the Kandahar station.
But any active involvement of troops in economic rebuilding is unlikely, and that creates a tricky balance. Many Afghans say they are tolerant of Americans, when they have been less so of other occupiers, because they believe that the Americans are here to reconstruct the country. To maintain support for their presence, coalition forces cannot dampen those hopes. But neither do they want to give them unrealistic encouragement.
As Maj. Michael Blankenship, who runs civil affairs at the base, put it: "We don't commit. We just say, 'Yeah, that stuff could happen in the future.' " 
That uneasy contradiction was on display recently, when a joint Canadian-American patrol visited a village, Khoushab, about two miles from the airport. 
The Canadians call such visits "influence patrols," and the Americans call them "psy ops." The point of this one was to follow up a stick with a carrot. About two weeks ago, a sunset-to-sunrise curfew proposed by the province's government, backed by the coalition forces, was imposed on an nearly five-mile radius around the base. 
The reason was a number of incidents around the base in the last month: three or four attacks by mortar or rocket, and a land mine that coalition forces believe was newly planted and that killed two Afghan soldiers.
But for villagers, the curfew has been a hardship. Farmers cannot pump water at night to irrigate their fields. So the patrol came with solicitous inquiries, candy for the children and talk of a school for the village, which has 200 children and nowhere to educate them.
The coalition forces hoped for intelligence on who might be behind the attacks on the base, or at least enough support to make the village inhospitable to the enemy. Muhammad Zahir, 52, the village elder who spoke with the patrol leader, Capt. Alex Watson of the Canadian Light Brigade, was hoping for agricultural assistance.
Their conversation was disjointed. Captain Watson asked Mr. Zahir whether farmers had heard a mortar being fired two nights before. Mr. Zahir asked what would happen if someone got sick at night and needed to go to a hospital. 
At the visit's end, the captain said he was pleased that the villagers seemed more comfortable. Mr. Zahir, who later whispered that American-backed Afghan troops had recently come through the village stealing, was reserving judgment. 
"We thought the Americans and the coalition would help with agriculture and other problems, and so far it's not happening," he said. "Everyone is coming and promising us."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The role of coalition forces in Afghanistan reaches beyond battle. Canadian and American soldiers, top, met with Muhammad Zahir, a village elder in Khoushab. American soldiers, below, stood guard in Kandahar. (Photographs by Amy Waldman/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (87%); AIRPORTS (87%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (77%); ARMIES (77%); PEACEKEEPING (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); AL-QAEDA (70%); TERRORISM (70%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP); TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) AFGHANISTAN; CANADA; KANDAHAR (AFGHANISTAN)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



805 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: In Pataki's Courtship, Minority Groups See Chance for Veto of Redistricting Plan 

BYLINE:  By SHAILA K. DEWAN 

 BODY:
In this election season, Gov. George E. Pataki has elaborately courted the state's minority voters. The self-proclaimed "governor of all the people" has protested the Navy bombing exercises on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques, mourned the dead in the Dominican Republic, kissed the governor of Puerto Rico and attended the Black and Puerto Rican Caucus annual dinner for the first time in his seven years in office. 
 But now several black and Latino groups are presenting what is, to them, a litmus test of Mr. Pataki's sincerity. They want the governor to veto the State Senate's redistricting plan, which they say is aggressively unfair to minority voters. 
 A Republican governor might seem an unlikely ally in a struggle to win what are likely to be Democratic seats. But Mr. Pataki has given civil rights groups reason to think that a veto is a possibility. 
"Governor Pataki is interested in seeing that a maximum number of minority districts are contained in the final maps," his director of intergovernmental relations, Leslie A. Maeby, told the New York Voting Rights Consortium, which includes black, Latino and Asian-American groups, at a forum on redistricting in January. The governor himself has said the Legislature's plan is unfair, but has not specified his concerns.
Such comments have raised expectations. "If he's got anything positive to say to the community regarding his intentions, then he has to put up right now," said Lucia Gomez, the civic participation program coordinator at the Puerto Rican Legal Defense Fund, a member of the consortium. "We don't want to be questioning his leadership on our issues. This is not a good time for him."
But a veto would be difficult for the governor. It would mean forfeiting the interests of the Republican majority in the Senate, who can ill afford to lose any of the 35 out of 61 seats they hold. And such a move would almost certainly sour Mr. Pataki's relationship with Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the majority leader. 
"The loss of a majority in the Senate is something desperately to be feared, and Pataki has a clear interest in not having both houses with a Democratic majority during his term," said Richard Emery, a prominent civil rights lawyer who is opposing the Senate plan in court. "He's in a terrible conflict."
The minority groups have focused mainly on two areas: Long Island, where they say district lines have systematically split clusters of black and Hispanic voters for decades, and Upper Manhattan and the Bronx, where, they say, there are enough Hispanic residents for an additional district whose Hispanic majority would be largely Dominican. Dominicans have already won a City Council seat and an Assembly seat, in part because of previous redistricting plans.
The Republican plan, which will be revised before the vote, which officials say is set for April 8 or 10 -- redraws the lines in Queens and Brooklyn to create an additional Hispanic district and an additional black district. But in Upper Manhattan it divides the Dominican community, centered in Washington Heights and the west Bronx, among districts held by three Democrats: Eric T. Schneiderman, whose political base is the Upper West Side, David A. Paterson of Harlem, and Olga A. Mendez, whose base is East Harlem.
Ms. Mendez, the co-chairwoman of Democrats for Pataki, said she had seen -- and supports -- the revised Senate plan for Upper Manhattan and the west Bronx because the lines have been redrawn to create a district that could eventually elect a Dominican-American. 
The Republican plan leaves largely intact the mostly white district held by Senator Guy J. Velella, which looks something like a doughnut that has had a bite taken out of it and then been run over by a car. Until recently, when Senator Pedro Espada Jr. announced he was switching parties, Mr. Velella was the Bronx's only elected Republican.
The minority groups, allied with the Senate's Democratic minority, have submitted an alternative plan for the area whose districts look persuasively compact by comparison. Yet both plans find justification among the principles of redistricting: supporters of the alternative plan say it protects what courts have called communities of interest, while the Republicans say continuity of representation trumps other concerns.
More difficult to justify, perhaps, is the population discrepancy in the Senate majority plan, which rounds up the number of upstate, predominantly Republican districts and rounds down the number of city districts, where minorities and Democrats are concentrated. 
Under the plan, the average population of the city's districts is 313,337 and the average population of upstate districts is 297,328. While the difference is just within the range permitted by the courts, it is more than twice that of the 1992 redistricting plan. Asked about the difference, Thomas Dunham, a spokesman for Senator Dean G. Skelos, a Republican who heads the Senate's redistricting task force, said: "It's legal. What more do you want?"
Mr. Emery, the lawyer challenging the plan, predicts that it will not hold up in court without substantial changes. "They have done every single conceivable thing to preserve the majority at the cost of any appearance of fairness," he said. "And it is as a result extremely vulnerable and a political hot potato."
Supporters of the Republican plan, like Senator Espada, who switched parties, say that minority communities benefit in economically and ethnically diverse districts, and that the fight for more minority districts is a thinly disguised grab for more Democratic districts.
Mr. Schneiderman, the Democratic senator on the Upper West Side, acknowledges that there is no lack of agendas when it comes to redistricting. "But at least our agenda is consistent with demographics," he said, "because the state is overwhelmingly Democratic."
"The fact of the matter is the Senate should reflect the people of the State of New York," he said. "There are a lot of personal and individual agendas, but there are also public policy agendas, and it is unfair to lump them all together."
Despite the plan's advantages for Republicans, though, the Democrat-led Assembly is not likely to attack it. The Assembly wants the freedom to pursue its own redistricting plan without the Senate's interference. So opponents of each plan have two hopes: a closed-door agreement that leads to substantial revisions, or a veto by the governor.
The likelihood of a veto is impossible to determine. Several Republican strategists, high-ranking party members and members of the Pataki administration would not comment or said they were not privy to the governor's intentions.
In 1992, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo denounced the redistricting plan even as he signed it, leaving it to the United States Justice Department to create an additional Hispanic district in the city. But Ms. Maeby, of the Pataki administration, promised that the governor would be more involved than his predecessor.
Some political strategists point out that a veto would not be a one-sided blow to the Republican Party because it would be good for Assembly Republicans, who are unhappy with proposed district lines there. Although a veto would be a powerful gesture to black and Latino voters, Governor Pataki has indicated he would prefer that both plans be substantially revised before it comes to that, a spokesman said last week. 
Both houses will soon release revised plans, but several lawmakers said the governor had not been involved in negotiations leading up to them. 
While hopes of a veto run high among some opponents of the Senate Republican plan, others are skeptical. "Too often people of color have given credit and support for a rumor," Senator Paterson of Harlem said, "only to find out later that it's a mirage."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Governor Pataki, State Senator Olga Mendez, Assemblyman Jose Rivera and Milton Segarro, in San Juan, P.R. (Associated Press) Chart/Map: "Two views on revamping Senate districts"The Republican plan divides the Dominican communities in Upper Manhattan and the Bronx into three districts. Several black and Latino groups, allied with the Senate's Democratic minority, have submitted an alternative plan whose districts look compact by comparison. Map highlights the Republican and minority proposals for Brooklyn, Westchester, Queens, and Manhattan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REDISTRICTING (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); VETO (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); LAWYERS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (68%); CITIES (50%) ELECTIONS; REAPPORTIONMENT; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; MINORITIES (US); HISPANIC-AMERICANS; BLACKS 

PERSON: DEWAN, SHAILA K; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) PUERTO RICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



806 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL: INSIDE THE N.B.A.; 
Charlotte and Its Hornets: A Relationship Gone Sour

BYLINE:  By MIKE WISE 

 BODY:
New Orleans does not have the headquarters of a Fortune 500 company or a particularly large television market. The Big Easy's corporate infrastructure is so tiny that it can hardly be counted on to ante up for an N.B.A. arena.
 But in an area of tolerant people, New Orleans understands what Charlotte did not: You have to spend money to make money in the N.B.A., and you can't let your ill feelings about a particular businessman or two make you do something foolish, like lose the Hornets. 
 In less than two weeks, Baron Davis, Jamal Mashburn and Charlotte's pro basketball team are leaving one of America's basketball hotbeds for New Orleans, the long-ago home to Pete Maravich and the Jazz.
Ray Wooldridge, the Charlotte co-owner, made it official in a telephone interview last week. Guaranteeing the club would meet Commissioner David Stern's conditions, Wooldridge said his team was as good as gone. 
"Everybody keeps asking what me and my partner could have done differently," Wooldridge said. "No one asked, 'What could the community have done differently, what could the political leaders have done differently?' "
How everything went bad so fast in Charlotte is up for debate. The whole affair degenerated into a back-and-forth, spitball fight between the ownership, especially the unpopular George Shinn, and a town once enraptured by its pro basketball team.
In the mid-1990's, a painted mural of Hornets stars Larry Johnson, Alonzo Mourning and Muggsy Bogues festooned the skyline across the side of a building. But those players, like the mural, are long gone. Soon, Shinn would be embroiled in a seedy sex case (in which he won a civil suit filed against him) and the roster changed so much that no real connection existed between the fans and the players. 
The coach, Paul Silas, finally fixed matters, with the help of Davis, Mashburn and P. J. Brown.
The Hornets were on the cusp of the Eastern Conference finals a year ago before falling to Milwaukee in seven games. But the support was already waning, and when a new arena was voted down in a referendum last year, the end was near.
Wooldridge still seems bent out of shape that the arena was ever put to a referendum, given that city officials and the Hornets had agreed to a plan and a cost for a new building. He said he and Shinn had invested $6 million in the venture. 
Asked whether Charlotte residents should be allowed to decide where their tax dollars go, Wooldridge replied: "Doesn't a pro team bring economic stimulus to the local economy? That's what New Orleans finally decided."
It remains to be seen whether the Big Easy will embrace pro basketball again. At the close of business Thursday, the Hornets were 696 season tickets short of the league's benchmark for moving the team from Charlotte. 
While visiting New Orleans last week, Stern said the Hornets had to sell 2,400 club seats, find three more corporate sponsors, complete a television deal and wrap up the paperwork on the sales of 55 suites before the close of business on Wednesday. If the Hornets meet those demands, the league's owners will vote on April 9 to approve or deny the move.
It will be interesting to see if the owners vote unanimously. After all, what does it say about their businesses that two franchises have left larger markets for smaller markets in consecutive years? The Grizzlies moved from Vancouver to Memphis last season, ruining one half of Stern's Canadian expansion.
"I don't think it says that much about the long-term viability of the N.B.A.'s future," Wooldridge said. "You've got a new TV deal, international opportunities sprouting up all over. I'm very confident about the business future of the league." 
Of New Orleans, he said, "There's 2.5 million people in the region; there's tremendous opportunity in being one of the only games in town."
Indeed, other than the N.F.L.'s Saints, there is not a lot to get in the Hornets' way. Cities where the N.B.A. is unchallenged by other major pro sports -- Sacramento, Utah, Portland, Orlando and San Antonio -- have done well at the gate.
Also, New Orleans and its charms -- crayfish pie, the French Quarter and a curfew way past 10 p.m. -- will be a treat for visiting N.B.A. players. They often bemoaned their trips to Charlotte. 
"I just didn't think anybody wanted to make it work," Wooldridge said. "We've all made mistakes, but that doesn't mean you don't look toward the long-term future of something."
He added that neither he nor Shinn found much tolerance in Charlotte. "There is no forgiveness," Wooldridge said. "I don't find that to be an attribute.
"There was a poison pond before I got there. The business community and the political community were unwilling to come together. That's what it came down to."
Community leaders would argue that he and Shinn were looking for a city to give them the deal they wanted -- or else. And if someone like Washington's Abe Pollin can finance his own arena without delving into the city's pockets, why can't the Hornets find an owner just as benevolent so the city can use money for genuine economic stimulus? 
Either way, the Charlotte Hornets are almost done. They have won 8 of 10 games and have made headway in the Eastern Conference playoff push. Soon, they will be playing their last game at the Charlotte Coliseum -- another once-raucous N.B.A. arena about to rest in peace.

Riley Revival
In December, Michael Jordan found his old legs and the Washington Wizards started to resemble a playoff team for only the second time in two decades. That same month, Pat Riley's coaching career had just about hit its nadir. The Heat began 5-23, and critics everywhere were begging Riley to step down.
Less than four months later, one N.B.A. icon is sounding as if he may be done while another seems eager to return for the 2002-3 season.
Riley's Heat will most likely not make the playoffs, but Miami's resurgence over the final months of the season mirrored the resurgence of its 57-year-old coach.
"I'm getting older and I'm getting reinvigorated," Riley told South Florida reporters last week. "Everybody wanted me to quit earlier in the year. It doesn't bother you, but I've learned over the years not to let that kind of stuff enter into my thinking." 
Meanwhile, Jordan said last week that he did not expect to play out the remainder of his two-year contract with the Wizards if the same knee injury hindered his progress. Jordan did not re-retire again, but he made it clear it would not be in his best interests to continue playing if he faced the same physical hurdles that forced him to undergo arthroscopic surgery this season -- and all but end the Wizards' playoff hopes.
Isn't it funny how a season can shift 180 degrees in a few short months? Or, for that matter, a few short weeks?
On Thursday night, the Toronto Raptors eked out a victory over Atlanta. It was their fourth straight since learning that Vince Carter would undergo knee surgery and miss the rest of the season. 
This would not be huge news, except that the Indiana Pacers have lost two straight and 5 of 10. Toronto is two and a half games behind Indiana for the East's eighth and final playoff spot. The Raptors, who have beaten the Pacers twice this season, play them twice in the final 10 games. 
Isiah Thomas was looking like the young, nurturing coach of a rebuilding team about to make the playoffs a few weeks ago. Lenny Wilkens was the old-timer who had seemingly lost his touch.
After all the speculation, if the Raptors do catch the Pacers, it will be interesting to see who faces the most heat in the off-season. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (95%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); REFERENDUMS (65%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); CITIES (64%) BASKETBALL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); CHARLOTTE HORNETS (93%); UTAH JAZZ (56%) CHARLOTTE HORNETS 

PERSON: WISE, MIKE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW ORLEANS (LA); CHARLOTTE (NC)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



807 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: Telling the Story Of Riverhead's Golf Course 

 BODY:
First the developers of the proposed Traditional Links Golf Course in Riverhead attack the appeals court that determined that their project was illegally approved, then they attack The Times letter, March 24 for its report on the subject.
 This is the story of how the Riverhead Town Board fell all over itself trying to do a favor for farmer-turned-developer William Talmage and his Manhattan partner, Kenneth Bakst, by ignoring the state law governing how development projects must be reviewed. 
 Courts are loath to impose their judgment about a development project's worth and the Appellate Division didn't in this case. Instead, the justices unanimously and correctly concluded that the economic and environmental effects of this project could not have been assessed because the Riverhead Town Board ignored significant impacts. For example, the court said Riverhead broke the law by not determining whether 25 or 333 houses would be built on the site; didn't consider an organic golf course and provided no mitigation measures.
This case is not, as the developer wrote, about discouraging investment in New York State; it's about the need for local government to obey state law when they review proposed development projects -- even those involving their political pals.

RICHARD AMPER
Executive Director
Long Island Pine Barrens Society
Manorville

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPEALS COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); GOLF (90%); LITIGATION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%) GOLF; ENVIRONMENT; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND PINE BARRENS SOCIETY 

PERSON: AMPER, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) PINE BARRENS (LI); RIVERHEAD (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



808 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: Healing the Wounds That Endure 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In the debate over how to rebuild Lower Manhattan ("The Old Downtown Economy Won't Return," Op-Ed, March 29), we must also consider how to repair the psychological damage inflicted on Sept. 11. 
 Restoring Wall Street's contribution to the city's economic output and tax base is clearly essential, but let us not overlook the opportunity to build institutions and spaces that mark history, commemorate valor and affirm the connectedness of humanity. The region's vitality will not be fully restored without also rebuilding the trust and hope that were destroyed on that day.

WILLIAM A. MILLER
Amherst, Mass., March 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HIJACKING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TRENDS (86%); TERRORISM (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

PERSON: MILLER, WILLIAM A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



809 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3030 words

HEADLINE: Advertising's Big Four: It's Their World Now 

BYLINE:  By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
COLLEGE basketball is not the only American institution with a showdown among its Final Four.
 When the Publicis Groupe, based in Paris, completes its $3 billion acquisition of the Bcom3 Group, probably in June, the advertising industry will narrow down to four giant agency companies -- the Omnicom Group and the Interpublic Group of Companies of New York, the WPP Group of London and Publicis -- that together will soak up more than half of the industry's revenue this year. They also will control much of the world's ad spending as well as significant shares of many other businesses like direct-mail marketing, in-store promotion and public relations. 
 Besides dominating commercial speech, a $500-billion-a-year industry, these four agency companies and the men who run them -- John D. Wren at Omnicom, John J. Dooner Jr. at Interpublic, Sir Martin Sorrell at WPP and Maurice Levy at Publicis -- also hold incredible sway over the media. By deciding when and where to spend their clients' ad budgets, they can indirectly set network television schedules and starve magazines to death or help them to flourish. 
"Now you have four megacompanies with revenues that are staggering, bigger than some of the companies they serve," said O. Burtch Drake, president and chief executive of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, the industry trade group.
Driving this concentration of power is an assumption that ad agencies must have a global presence, enormous size and a full range of marketing services simply to survive. That has led to decades of mergers and acquisitions, during which, for example, Omnicom bought more than 150 agencies. Interpublic grew from two American-based ad agency groups to three worldwide ad agency networks; 30 to 40 smaller American- and overseas-based ad shops; three global direct-marketing agencies; and 16 to 18 agencies focused on services like public relations, health care marketing, entertainment and sports marketing and consumer research.
These advertising and marketing behemoths have grown in response to fundamental changes among their clients and media companies. Clients themselves have become bigger and more global. Many have changed their marketing strategies to rely less on television and print ads and more on other avenues like coupons, direct mail, sports sponsorships, in-store promotions and product placements in movies and on television shows. Media companies, meanwhile, have ballooned in size and range, and now package print and television with the Internet and other paths to consumers.
Creating and expanding these advertising-marketing conglomerates has been "a way to gather advertising assets under one company to make sure you'll keep the client's dollar," Mr. Drake said. "If you don't own agencies in those other fields, it comes out of your hide."
This multibillion-dollar bet on conglomeration has succeeded so far in consolidating and cutting administrative expenses and in offering clients one-stop shopping for their marketing plans. It also lets one agency company serve competing clients by assigning each to a different sibling agency. Omnicom, for example, works for many automakers, including DaimlerChrysler, General Motors, Nissan and Volkswagen.
But it is not always smooth sailing.
Last summer, PepsiCo switched $350 million of its ad business from an agency acquired by Interpublic to an Omnicom shop because Interpublic also represents Pepsi's archrival, Coca-Cola. A short while later, Coca-Cola shifted work on its Sprite brand from Interpublic to a WPP-owned agency, saying it didn't want to rely on a single advertising conglomerate.
The entrepreneurial-minded on both the creative and business sides of advertising also contend that the expansion of agency companies has smothered originality under a blanket of conformity.
"You have a holding company dictating what can and can't be done, which stifles creativity, and the corporate culture numbs individuality," said Paul Cappelli, a refugee from McCann-Erickson, an Interpublic agency, who now runs the Ad Store, a boutique based in New York. "We call those agencies 'notworks' instead of 'networks,' because if you're not one of the biggest clients, you get lost in the shuffle."
And many media company executives worry about the concentration of buying power in the hands of so few advertising companies. Smaller publishers and broadcasters worry that additional consolidation on Madison Avenue will force them to sell out to larger rivals.
Whether agency companies continue to thrive may come down to how tightly -- or how loosely -- each of the conglomerates' chief executives runs his empire. Controlling costs, for example, must be balanced with large measures of autonomy for the men and women who do the creative work and run the individual agencies. And those leaders must do this as the industry suffers its worst recession in memory.
The men who oversee these advertising giants differ in outlook, temperament and background. So do the companies.

Communications Impresario
Before he became the president and chief executive of the Omnicom Group, the world's largest agency company by revenue, John D. Wren managed roller-hockey rinks, ran a kosher catering company and sold T-shirts.
The diversity of Mr. Wren's resume mirrors the disparate services offered by Omnicom, which derives 56 percent of its revenue from businesses other than traditional advertising -- the largest percentage of the four big agency companies.
Some of those other services -- corporate identity consulting, sales promotion and interactive marketing -- are no stretch for an ad shop. But, befitting its name, Omnicom also offers clients services like crisis management and, since Sept. 11, corporate security.
Mr. Wren, 49, has been in the vanguard of adding specialized units, spurred by the increasing demands from marketers for ads beyond traditional forms.
While Mr. Wren sometimes work directly with clients, including DaimlerChrysler and PepsiCo, he stressed that "we've held ourselves to be a holding company," giving a lot of autonomy to division heads.
He said he sees himself as an impresario, "providing the concert hall, selling the tickets, maybe setting the dates" -- giving the actual performers "the resources to accomplish what they do and setting objectives and goals, but not doing it for them or telling them what to do."
Mr. Wren was a consultant at Arthur Andersen before arriving on Madison Avenue in 1984, joining Needham Harper Worldwide, which merged in 1986 with BBDO and Doyle Dane Bernbach to form Omnicom. He has always been in finance and administration, "never an advertising guy," as he put it, adding with a laugh, "No one's asked me for advice on whether to be in the Super Bowl or not."
That could be a big reason why Mr. Wren has risen so far so fast at Omnicom, a confederation of proudly autonomous agencies whose leaders may not have suffered gladly the kibitzing of a former copywriter or account manager even if he was their boss.
Mr. Wren "has managed to do with Omnicom something that many have tried but few have succeeded at," said James C. Schroer, executive vice president for global sales, marketing and service at the Chrysler Group division of DaimlerChrysler in Auburn Hills, Mich. "He keeps the key players at each agency he acquires as motivated and creative as they ever were as entrepreneurs running their own companies, and does it without superimposing a bureaucracy."
How pleased is Chrysler with Omnicom? Enough to consolidate its $1.8 billion account there in 2000. Omnicom has managed to please enough other clients to propel its stock price to $94.56 last week from a post-Sept. 11 low of $59.10.
"Being big for the sake of being big is not terribly important," said Mr. Wren, who led the Omnicom division specializing in nontraditional holdings, known as Diversified Agency Services, before being named president of Omnicom in 1995 and chief executive in 1997. "Being big for the sake of the services you can provide is terribly important."
Mr. Wren provided a glimpse at his modus operandi when he declined to pose for a photograph to accompany this article because, he said, he does not think he photographs well. Instead, he sent a portrait.
"I know most of my strengths," he said, "but more important, I know all of my weaknesses."

A Hands-On Approach
Of the leaders of the four largest agency companies, only one -- John J. Dooner Jr., chairman, president and chief executive of the Interpublic Group of Companies -- climbed to the top as a traditional adman. He is also the one who recently traveled from New York to Texas to watch a spot being filmed for one of his firm's largest clients.
"I don't know how many C.E.O.'s of top-four agencies go to commercial shoots," said Steven J. Heyer, executive vice president of Coca-Cola in Atlanta.
Mr. Dooner observed the production of the spot, now on national television, for Coke Classic. The commercial shows a pair of workers pausing to refresh after climbing to the top of a giant radio tower, an apt salute to two climbers from one of their own.
Mr. Dooner's credentials -- rising from the media buying department at Grey in 1970 to leader of Interpublic three decades later -- are such that "when he talks about clients and how they react, he has credibility," said Michael J. Russell Jr., an analyst who follows advertising and broadcasting stocks for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
The Coke Classic spot was created by Carmichael Lynch, a small Interpublic agency in Minneapolis, one of many whose work for Coca-Cola is orchestrated by Mr. Dooner. He began overseeing the company's account almost two decades ago at McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising, the largest ad agency Interpublic owns.
While he still takes a personal interest in the nuts-and-bolts aspects of the business, like making television spots, Mr. Dooner, 53, said he appreciates that his industry has "grown significantly more complex over the years as advertising migrated from spots and print ads to a complicated integration of communications."
Mr. Dooner joined his first Interpublic agency, Marschalk, now part of Lowe & Partners Worldwide, in 1973, 12 years after Interpublic invented the agency company concept by forming Interpublic Inc. to own McCann and other shops. He moved to McCann in 1984, becoming chairman and chief executive in 1995.
Under Mr. Dooner, McCann tripled its billings and formed a mini-holding company modeled after Interpublic called the McCann-Erickson World Group, which added services like public relations, event marketing and corporate identity consulting.
While he was developing the multidisciplinary approach at McCann, however, the agency lost most duties for creating Coke Classic campaigns to a Hollywood talent firm, the Creative Artists Agency. Mr. Dooner spent the next eight years working to recapture the account, which by 2000 led to an expanded marketing relationship between most Coca-Cola brands and a variety of Interpublic agencies.
By then, Mr. Dooner had left McCann for Interpublic, initially as president and chief operating officer, then adding the positions of chairman and chief executive. Under his guidance, Interpublic made its biggest acquisition, buying True North Communications last June for $2.1 billion.
Even with the addition of True North's business, however, Interpublic said the economic slump caused its revenue to fall 6.3 percent last year, dropping Interpublic to second place behind Omnicom. Interpublic posted a net loss of $505.3 million after taking almost $1.2 billion in extraordinary charges.
Investors, however, have bid up Interpublic stock to $34.27 from a low of $18.25 last October after Mr. Dooner began a sweeping reorganization to integrate the True North agencies and cut costs.

Financier and Strategist
Sir Martin Sorrell, chief executive of the WPP Group, has never written an ad or planned a media buy; his interest in advertising has always been as a business. Trained in finance, he dogs those who handle the creative and operational tasks at his agencies to meet goals he sets. He is famous, or infamous, for serial calls and e-mail messages to his top managers, wherever they -- or he -- may be.
His strength, widely acknowledged, is strategic thinking -- finding, buying and assimilating the components of an agency company.
"He has the best strategic sense of what's going on with clients and where the industry is headed," said Lauren Rich Fine, the advertising analyst for Merrill Lynch. That is reflected in WPP's stock, which rebounded from $37.55 in October to close last week at $56.84.
After earning a degree in economics from Cambridge and an M.B.A. from Harvard, Sir Martin served as the group finance director for the Saatchi brothers, Charles and Maurice, from 1977 to 1984, helping them make their firm, Saatchi & Saatchi, a pre-eminent agency company.
"He's very much a person investors find to be similar in makeup and temperament to themselves," said Mr. Russell of Morgan Stanley. 
In 1985, Sir Martin left the Saatchis to start building an empire of his own. The Sorrell venture, named WPP, soared with a string of audacious American acquisitions, including J. Walter Thompson in 1987 and Ogilvy & Mather in 1989.
Those takeovers were initially hostile, and Sir Martin was castigated by many top executives at his targets. David Ogilvy came out of retirement to rail against him as an "odious little jerk" -- only, legend has it, he used a scatological noun instead. (Sir Martin labored to change Mr. Ogilvy's mind and eventually did, as he agreed to serve as chairman of WPP until 1992.)
Soon after the Ogilvy takeover, the global advertising recession of the early 1990's brought the debt-laden WPP to the brink of bankruptcy. Sir Martin offered his creditors equity stakes, shunned significant deals and husbanded his resources, keeping WPP afloat until the economy improved.
WPP was briefly the largest agency company, after its $4.7 billion acquisition of Young & Rubicam in 2000.
(That takeover ruffled feathers, too, as Y.& R.'s top executives initially fought off Sir Martin, only to succumb after he courted the board. One executive who had quit Ogilvy rather than work for Sir Martin quit again at Y.& R.)
Rather than thinking of WPP as a "holding company" that controls its various units, Sir Martin, 57, said he prefers to regard it as a "parent company" that helps the individual units work together to meet clients' needs. WPP employees can refer to the Catalog, a 36-page booklet listing all the services offered at WPP-owned companies, from media buying to management training.
"Martin has put together an absolutely unrivaled assembly of companies in all aspects of marketing," said Nicholas V. Scheele, chief operating officer at the Ford Motor Company in Dearborn, Mich., which works with all three big WPP ad agencies -- Ogilvy, Y.& R. and J. Walter Thompson.
Though Sir Martin "is an intense individual, no question about it," Mr. Scheele added, "it's never a 'sell, sell, sell' " to persuade Ford to hire additional WPP agencies.

The Resilient European
When Maurice Levy, chairman and chief executive of the Publicis Groupe, failed to pull off a hostile takeover bid for its former American partner, True North Communications, in 1997, Wall Street wrote him off as an also-ran in the grinding consolidation of the advertising industry.
As recently as three years ago, that prognosis looked solid. Publicis then ranked 10th in revenue among the world's 10 biggest agency companies.
But Mr. Levy was undeterred. He directed a frenetic burst of deal-making that brought into the Publicis fold Fallon McElligott, Saatchi & Saatchi and Nelson Communications. (True North, meanwhile, lost its independence anyway, bought by Interpublic last June.)
With the acquisition of the Bcom3 Group, Publicis will become the fourth-largest agency company by revenue -- twice as big as Havas Advertising, the French rival that Mr. Levy has fiercely sought to surpass.
"I have enormous respect for Maurice," said Ms. Fine, the Merrill Lynch analyst. "He has really delivered for shareholders."
Since bottoming out at $14.75 in October, shares of Publicis have come back, closing last week at $34.04.
Mr. Levy has also delivered for his major clients, according to one of them.
"Maurice commits to you in a very personal way," said Lindsay Owen-Jones, chairman and chief executive at L'Oreal, the cosmetics and fragrance giant in Paris. "When it comes to any major problem, I know I can call Maurice any time, day or night, and he's there."
Mr. Levy, 60, entered advertising in 1966, but not to create ads or to work on accounts.
"I'm in this business by chance because my education and training was as an engineer, in data processing," he said in a telephone interview from his Paris headquarters.
"When I saw the offices at heavy industry and banks, they were absolutely sad, boring," he recalled. "When I sat in the lobby of an ad agency, I saw the men with long hair and the women with miniskirts and I said, 'This is the place to be.' "
Five years later, Mr. Levy joined Publicis, also in data processing. On his first day there, he said, he met Marcel Bleustein-Blanchet, the founder of Publicis who introduced France to the American style of advertising.
"He told me, 'One day you will run this company,' " Mr. Levy said. "When I got home that night, my wife said, 'Don't worry, he's probably saying this to all the young people at the agency.' "
But a year later, when the Publicis office on the Champs-Elysees caught fire one night around 9, Mr. Levy, who was still at work, saved the computer files. Mr. Bleustein-Blanchet called him "my loyal warrior" and made him the heir apparent.
Mr. Levy, who became chief executive in 1988, said the fact that he was "French-born and European" gave him certain advantages over his American and British rivals.
"When you are here, you know the Germans are different from the Spanish and the Spanish react differently from the Portuguese, the French, the Belgians," he said. "We better understand the cultural and behavioral differences, the diversity," which is increasingly important as advertisers seek "to talk not to masses, but to individuals."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maurice Levy, chief executive of the Publicis Groupe, one of the world's four dominant advertising agency companies, at its headquarters on the Champs Elysees in Paris. (Ed Alcock for The New York Times)(pg. 1); A Fallon Worldwide advertisement for Lee Jeans.; Britney Spears in a BBDOcommercial for Pepsi.; A Carmichael Lynch ad for Coca-Cola Classic.; William Clay Ford Jr. in a Thompson ad for Ford Motor. (pg. 10) Chart: "The Big Four at a Glance OMNICOM GROUPCHIEF EXECUTIVE: John D. WrenHEADQUARTERS: New York2001 REVENUE: $6.9 billionEMPLOYEES: 56,000MAJOR ADVERTISING AGENCIES: BBDO Worldwide; DDB Worldwide; GSD&M; Goodby, Silverstein & Partners; TBWA WorldwideMEDIA BUYING AGENCIES: OMD; PHDDIRECT MARKETING: Rapp Collins WorldwidePUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES: KetchumMAJOR CLIENTS: Anheuser-Busch; Apple Computer; Clorox; Daimler-Chrysler; Gillette; Henkel; Hewlett-Packard; Mars; McDonald's; Nissan Motor; PepsiCo; Pfizer; SBC Communications; Visa INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIESCHIEF EXECUTIVE: John J. Dooner Jr.HEADQUARTERS: New York2001 REVENUE: $6.7 billionEMPLOYEES: 54,000MAJOR ADVERTISING AGENCIES: Campbell-Ewald; Deutsch; Foote, Cone & Belding; Lowe & Partners Worldwide; McCann-Erickson Worldwide AdvertisingMEDIA BUYING AGENCIES: Initiative Media; Magna Global; Universal McCannDIRECT MARKETING: Draft Worldwide; FCBi; MRM PartnersPUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES: DeVries; Golin/Harris; Weber ShandwickMAJOR CLIENTS: Coca-Cola; General Motors; Gillette; S.C. Johnson; Johnson & Johnson; L'Oral; Microsoft; Nestl; Philip Morris; Unilever WPP GROUPCHIEF EXECUTIVE: Sir Martin SorrellHEADQUARTERS: London2001 REVENUE: $5.8 billionEMPLOYEES: 65,000MAJOR ADVERTISING AGENCIES: Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide; Red Cell; J. Walter Thompson, Young & RubicamMEDIA BUYING AGENCIES: MindShare; Mediaedge:CIADIRECT MARKETING: OgilvyOne Worldwide; WundermanPUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES: Burson-Marsteller; Cohn & Wolfe; Hill & Knowlton; Ogilvy Public RelationsMAJOR CLIENTS: AT&T; American Express; Citicorp; Colgate-Palmolive; Ford Motor; I.B.M.; Pfizer; Philip Morris; Unilever PUBLICIS GROUPECHIEF EXECUTIVE: Maurice LevyHEADQUARTERS: Paris2001 REVENUE: $4.0 billion*EMPLOYEES: 38,000*MAJOR ADVERTISING AGENCIES: Fallon Worldwide; Publicis; Publicis & Hal Riney; Saatchi & SaatchiMEDIA BUYING AGENCIES: Owns 75 percent of the Zenith Optimedia GroupDIRECT MARKETING: Frankel; Publicis Dialog; Triangle GroupPUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES: Publicis Dialog; Publicis ConsultantsMAJOR CLIENTS: AstraZeneca; Coca-Cola; General Mills; Hewlett-Packard; Johnson & Johnson; L'Oral; Nestl; Procter & Gamble; Renault; Siemens; Sprint; Toyota *Revenue and employee figures reflect pending acquisition of Bcom3 Group.(Source: Company reports)(pg. 10) Chart: "Ready to Rebound?"Spending on advertising in the United States rose rapidly in recent years, fell in 2001 and may rise slightly this year. Graph shows estimated advertising spending in billions since 1996. (Source: Robert J. Coen, Universal McCann)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); SALES PROMOTIONS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (89%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (79%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MERGERS (78%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); DIRECT MARKETING (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (77%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MARKETING STRATEGY (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); NETWORK TELEVISION (66%); HEALTH CARE (64%); SPORTS (61%); SPORTS & RECREATION (61%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (97%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (93%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (93%); WPP PLC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%) OMNICOM GROUP INC (OMC); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS (IPG); WPP GROUP PLC (WPPGY); PUBLICIS GROUPE; BCOM3 GROUP 

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (97%); IPG (NYSE) (93%); OMC (NYSE) (93%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (91%); WPP (LSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (97%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (97%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (97%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (97%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (91%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (91%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

PERSON: MAURICE LEVY (88%); JOHN D WREN (79%); BRITNEY SPEARS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



810 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
How the Democrats Might Come Out Fighting

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
DEMOCRATS these days seem like Indiana Jones: cornered and out of ammunition. They are in striking distance of winning back the House and improving their one-seat Senate majority. But one by one, the weapons in the party's electoral arsenal have been taken away.
 Last spring, the Democratic Party lavished $1 million on television commercials that lambasted five Republican House incumbents on what was supposed to be a sure-fire issue for the 2000 elections: that the party was not doing enough to alleviate the energy crunch. But prices at the gas pumps never veered out of control and the money turned out to be wasted. 
 Then Democrats thought they could base their campaigns on painting President Bush as a dimwitted, right-wing villain who could not utter a complete sentence. But after Sept. 11, his ratings shot up, and Mr. Bush has been one of the most popular presidents in modern times. 
Then Democrats set their sights on turning Enron's collapse into an issue against Republicans. That target proved illusory when people weren't eager to punish politicians for the crisis.
Finally, the most explosive Democratic weapon -- a recession -- just fizzled out.
But perhaps, like Indiana Jones, there is a way for Democrats to rouse themselves and win the day before the movie is over. James Jordan, executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, thinks it could yet happen. "I wish our incumbents would wake up and get out of the fetal position," he said. "We do best when picking fights."
There are ways for Democrats to rise from their protective crouch and come out swinging. Here are a few their strategists are considering:

War Isn't Everything
The war on terrorism has made Mr. Bush wildly popular, and one might expect Republicans to be clamoring for him to stump in their districts. Indeed, Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief political adviser, has told Republicans, "We can go to the country on this issue." But in fact Mr. Bush's wartime popularity may not do Republican candidates much good.
Peter Hart, a Democratic pollster, said his surveys show that while Democrats and Republicans alike give Mr. Bush full support on the war, Democrats and independents cut him far less slack on domestic issues like health care and education. Which means the war helps the president much more than it helps other Republicans. 
"In the end, you won't find a lot of Republicans just simply posing with Bush -- nor will you find Democrats running against the president," Mr. Hart said. While the wartime popularity helps the president, he said, for Republican candidates, "It looks marvelous until you have to go out and actually have a debate."
In the two gubernatorial campaigns last November, in Virginia and New Jersey, Democrats triumphed -- and Mr. Bush found he had no coattails. In fact, from Woodrow Wilson to Franklin D. Roosevelt to the elder George Bush, every president during a wartime midterm election -- no matter how popular -- has seen his party lose seats in the Congressional election.
Not every Republican is itching to be photographed alongside Mr. Bush. Asked whether she wanted the president to campaign for her, Representative Connie Morella of Maryland, a moderate who is facing the toughest challenge of her career in an increasingly Democratic district, replied, "Maybe we'll do Laura Bush."

Checks and Balances
Democrats say an important part of their strategy is to persuade voters to deny support to Republicans in order to preserve a check on the White House. They will try to portray the Republican leaders in Congress as more extreme than Newt Gingrich -- and warn that the only way to control them and Mr. Bush's rightward tendencies is to elect Democrats. "For the first time ever," Mr. Jordan said. "I believe people will consciously choose divided government."
But among academics and pollsters, debates have raged for years over whether people actually consider checks and balances when voting for their local representative.
And while it was easy for Democrats to make a demon of Mr. Gingrich, the current House speaker, J. Dennis Hastert, is less abrasive personally and hardly comes off as a bad guy.
"I just kind of shrug it off," Mr. Hastert said of moves to demonize him. "They've been saying that for years."
A more enticing target is the majority leader, Dick Armey. But he's retiring this year. 

The Tried and True
No matter what happens in the next seven months, Republicans are sure of one thing. Listen to Trent Lott, the Senate minority leader: "If everything continues on track in the war on terrorism and the economy continues to improve, the Democrats will do what they always do every two years: they will go back home and say, 'Oh, the Republicans will take your Social Security.' It's the same thing I've been hearing for 30 years."
The White House is also ready for that line. "The unified campaign slogan of the Democrats is going to be 'Boo!,' " said Dan Bartlett, the White House communications director. "They're going to try to scare seniors."
But there's a reason Democrats often retreat to Social Security: elderly voters are an important constituency in midterm elections. And, often, they are frightened by Democratic warnings about losing their Social Security.
Moreover, this November the issue could have particular force because Mr. Bush broke his pledge to protect the Social Security trust fund. His budget uses surpluses to pay for other programs through 2013. 
To drive home the message, Democrats will play on voters' insecurities about their retirement savings by reminding them of the Enron employees who saw their 401(k) accounts disappear.
"The Democrats will have to do a much better job of saying there are very big issues on the table for working families," said Steve Rosenthal, political director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. "There needs to be a real serious airing of the differences between the parties on Social Security, prescription drugs, health care."
The A.F.L.-C.I.O. is gearing up to pump tens of millions of dollars into putting out that message in 12 to 15 states with hot races.

A Sleeper Issue
Back last spring, Democrats attacked Mr. Bush for considering loosening environmental regulations on arsenic in drinking water. After Sept. 11, the outcry faded.
But some Democrats are hankering to revive the environment as an issue in their local races. They will paint Republicans as beholden to an administration that is stocked with environmental extremists.
"Will voters turn out Bush on issues like snowmobiles in Yosemite and arsenic in the water? No," said Tony Podesta, a Democratic strategist. "But these issues can be made to work in suburban swing districts." The pitch, Mr. Podesta said, would be, "Do you want to elect somebody to help Bush dismantle the environmental protection laws?"
Rahm Emanuel, a former top aide to President Clinton who won a congressional primary in Chicago this month, has another idea. "I'm absolutely convinced that health care is the issue," he said. "It not only motivates the Democratic base but it gets you the key independents. If you have health insurance, you feel you can't afford or you are going to lose it. If you're in managed care, you feel like you're in a recurring nightmare."
Still, many Democrats are not so sure they have yet hit on a sleeper issue. Asked what it will be in November, Representative David Price, a North Carolina Democrat, said, "It's hard for me to predict. We're still in the shadow of 9/11."

Who Knows?
Republicans should know not to gloat, especially this early in the year, about how well they may do in November. Before the midterm elections four years ago, Representative John Linder, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, predicted that with all scandal surrounding President Bill Clinton's personal life, Republicans would pick up 15 to 20 House seats. Instead, they lost five (and Mr. Linder lost his chairmanship).
Given how the world has changed since Sept. 11, anything could happen to scramble the political equation -- and demolish or enlarge the narrow majorities in the House and Senate.
"This is going to be one of the most competitive elections in American history," said Representative Jim Leach, an Iowa Republican. "It would be presumptuous to predict with confidence who will take control."
To be sure, both sides are stockpiling their artillery, be it campaign cash, television commercials or on-the-ground troops.
"The honeymoon is over because we're going to go into an election season and that same personable president who is riding a crest of popularity will be beating the brains out of every Democrat in his reach," said Senator Richard Durbin, an Illinois Democrat. "That's how this business works." Mr. Durbin also knows that Democrats, in turn, are raring to knock the president -- and his party -- off their lofty perch.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In June 2001, the big smile belonged to Tom Daschle, Democrat, who was about to replace Trent Lott, Republican, as Senate majority leader. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); WAR ON TERROR (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); TERRORISM (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JIM JORDAN (59%); TRENT LOTT (59%); TOM DASCHLE (59%); KARL ROVE (56%) BERKE, RICHARD L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



811 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Democrats See Chance to Take Top Job in Illinois 

BYLINE:  By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, March 29 

 BODY:
It has been 30 years since a Democrat won a governor's race in Illinois. But this year things could be different.
 In the past, Illinois Democrats have so ripped themselves apart in primary fights that they have been unable to regroup in time to win in the fall. Republicans, on the other hand, have avoided divisive primaries and, to boot, have mostly nominated centrists, a good ideological fit in Illinois. 
 This year, it is the Republicans who are in disarray.
They fought bitterly over social and economic issues in the months before the March 19 primary and emerged badly divided and with a nominee, Attorney General Jim Ryan, who is considerably more conservative than most previous Republican nominees, particularly on abortion. 
What is more, the divisiveness lingers, with Mr. Ryan's defeated foes refusing to offer him pledges of support. Equally serious, a scandal involving bribes for commercial drivers' licenses that led to the indictment of a number of Republican state officials is dragging on, tarring the party and leaving Mr. Ryan open to accusations that as attorney general he should have done more to clean up the mess.
In contrast, Democrats avoided their usual party-sundering feuds in the primary campaign and emerged strongly united behind their nominee, Representative Rod Blagojevich, a liberal from Chicago who favors abortion rights and more gun controls. Heading into the fall campaign, party leaders seem more upbeat about electing a governor than in any race in years.
"Illinois is ready for change," Mr. Blagojevich (pronounced bluh-GOYA-vich) says as he crisscrosses the state, shoring up his already strong support among the thousands of unionized workers and accusing Mr. Ryan of being conservative to the extreme and "asleep at the switch" as attorney general.
Mr. Ryan counters that the only change coming will be his move into the governor's office in Springfield to replace Gov. George Ryan (no relation), a Republican who did not seek re-election because of the fallout from the license scandal, though he has not been charged with any wrongdoing.
"This state won't elect the likes of Rod Blagojevich," Attorney General Ryan said. "He's way too liberal and, unlike me, has no executive experience. In fact, you could say that the only thing he has ever run is for office."
Democratic Party leaders predict not only that Mr. Blagojevich will win the race for governor, but that their party will also gain control of the State Senate, thereby giving Democrats full reign over the Legislature, since they already control the House.
"There's going to be a clean sweep in November," Michael Madigan, the House speaker and the chairman of the Illinois Democratic Party, declared last week after Mr. Blagojevich's primary victory.
Early polls give Mr. Blagojevich a double-digit lead over Mr. Ryan, and many students of Illinois politics say the Democrats have reason to be optimistic. 
"Democrats have a real shot in this election, their best in years and years," said Chris Mooney, the director of the Legislative Studies Center at the University of Illinois in Springfield. "The state has recently begun to trend Democratic a bit, especially as you work out from Chicago into the suburbs and collar counties, and, as in many urban areas around the country, there's a lot of political flux out there, a lot of independent politics. Throw in a scandal and a nasty primary and why shouldn't Democrats be feeling pretty confident?"
Some Republican leaders and strategists openly worry that of the 23 states in which Republicans are trying to hold onto the governor's office this year, Illinois could be one of the most difficult to defend.
"You have to say the entire Republican side is in jeopardy," Don Rose, a campaign consultant who worked with one of Mr. Ryan's primary opponents, said after analyzing the primary results.
Still, Lee A. Daniels, the House Republican leader and the chairman of the Illinois Republican Party, said he was upbeat.
"This ticket is united," he declared, adding that a vote in November for Mr. Blagojevich would be a vote "to have the city of Chicago run the state of Illinois."
Mr. Blagojevich is just one of a number of Chicago Democrats running for statewide office this year. Also from Chicago are the party's nominees for lieutenant governor, secretary of state, attorney general (Lisa Madigan, Speaker Madigan's daughter), comptroller and treasurer.
Chicago already has immense political power in Springfield. But a big Democratic sweep this fall would take that power to a new level. 
The Chicago area accounts for about 60 percent of the vote in statewide elections, with the rest coming from what is known as downstate, that part of Illinois stretching south from the collar counties ringing Chicago. It is a region of small towns and big farms that it is much less ethnic than Chicago, one of the nation's great urban mixing bowls.
Inevitably, there is a bit of political tension between Chicago and downstate. Over the years the downstate vote has been a political stumbling block for more than one Chicago candidate in a statewide race, just as the Chicago vote has been a stumbling block for more than one downstate candidate running statewide.
In the Democratic primary, Mr. Blagojevich campaigned hard downstate and ran unusually well there. Come November, he said, he expects to repeat that success.
Mr. Ryan, who is from Elmhurst, a suburb west of Chicago, contends that he will also get his full share of the downstate vote in the fall.
"I ran well down there in the primary, too," he said. 
While overall Mr. Blagojevich may have a leg up in the governor's race, a large question mark nevertheless hangs over his campaign. Will he be able to persuade Chicago's independent-minded Democratic mayor, Richard M. Daley, to campaign hard for him in the city, where Mr. Blagojevich posted some disappointing numbers in the primary?
Mr. Daley has been less than enthusiastic about some Democratic candidates in the past. In this race, he has not tipped his hand.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Democratic nominee for governor of Illinois, Representative Rod Blagojevich, is benefiting from a party strongly united behind him.; The Republican nominee for governor of Illinois, Attorney General Jim Ryan, center, appears to be in an uphill battle to retain the office for his party, which has held it for three decades. This year, the party is in disarray. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (75%); LAWYERS (71%); ABORTION (69%); INDICTMENTS (68%); LICENSES & PERMITS (68%); GUN CONTROL (68%); SCANDALS (68%); DRIVERS LICENSES (68%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) GOVERNORS (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTIONS 

PERSON: ROD BLAGOJEVICH (89%); JAMES T RYAN (89%) AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; RYAN, JIM (ATTY GEN); BLAGOJEVICH, ROD (REP) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) ILLINOIS

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



812 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1765 words

HEADLINE: Brother, Can You Spare a Billion?; 
In Hard Times, Budget Makers Will Cut, Tax and Borrow

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
Money troubles, everybody's got money troubles. From Albany to Trenton, to the halls of power in New York City and Nassau County, state and local governments around the region are trying to figure out how to plug big deficits. Really big deficits.
 Budget-phobic? Take heart. This is not rocket science. It simply means that all these governments have more expenses than they can meet. So they must either cut their expenses, raise more money through taxes or fees, or borrow to pay their bills. 
 The numbers are unforgiving. For the next fiscal year, 2003, New Jersey is facing a shortfall of $5.3 billion. New York State's gap is $5.1 billion and New York City's is $4.76 billion, which even exceeds the estimated net worth of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. 
And Nassau County, which has been on fiscal life support for several years and is struggling to avoid a state takeover, faces a $29 million gap in the current fiscal year, 2002, which threatens to rise to $428 million by 2005. 
But if all these governments find themselves in more or less the same listing boat, they are bailing themselves out in different ways. And the choices they are making are dictated as much by history and politics as by the bottom line.
At one extreme is Nassau County. Its new county executive, Thomas R. Suozzi, is prescribing bitter medicine to cure what ails it: he has called for eliminating 1,200 jobs -- or one in eight county positions -- and raising the county's portion of the property tax by at least 20 percent.
At another extreme is New York State. Despite the steep drop in revenue, Gov. George E. Pataki, who is likely to run for third term in the fall, has proposed raising spending by $4 billion, or 4.7 percent, keeping tax cuts that had been scheduled to take effect this year, and avoiding layoffs.
Somewhere between the tough love approach of Nassau and the somewhat optimistic one of New York State are the budgets of New Jersey and New York City. 
Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey is wrestling not only with balancing the budget, but with taming the ghosts of Democratic governors past, namely Jim Florio.
And Mayor Bloomberg must make good on the central premise of his campaign, that the city needs a businessman at its helm to lead it out of its current troubles.
Each approach says something about a place, a leader, and a set of problems.
Nassau County is, well, unique. It has the dubious distinction of being the one place in the region that had big deficits when the economy was booming, before the dot-com bubble burst, the nation went into a recession and the attacks of Sept. 11. Even before all that its bonds were a hairbreadth away from junk, and a financial control board was waiting in the wings to take over the operations of the county if needed.
Nassau's budget wounds were largely self-inflicted, the result of years of mismanagement. Weak economy aside, the county simply spent more than it could afford. Just last week The Bond Buyer, a financial publication, described it as a "fiscal basket case." The county flunked finance -- literally. When the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse University rated governments in 40 of the nation's largest counties earlier this year, Nassau was the only one to get an F in financial management.
It was against that backdrop that Mr. Suozzi won the county executive's seat, in an election that was nothing short of a political revolution. Mr. Suozzi was the first Democrat elected to the post in three decades, and he beat the Republican nominee, Bruce R. Bent, by a nearly 2-to-1 ratio, in an overwhelmingly Republican county.
Mr. Suozzi's election was the final humiliation for the Nassau County Republican Party, a legendary political machine that controlled the county for the better part of the last century. Voters blamed the Republicans for the fiscal crisis, and gave Democrats control of the county legislature in 1999 for the first time in 80 years, and followed up two years later by electing Mr. Suozzi county executive.
So Mr. Suozzi has made it clear that he sees his election as a mandate to make the bold moves that his predecessors resisted, and to fix the county. Even if it's tough.
Taxes? He hopes he can keep the proposed property tax increase to only 20 percent. County jobs? Some 1,200 of them must go, hopefully by early retirement and attrition, but with layoffs if necessary. There is even talk in his administration of raising golf fees on public courses!
"It looks like Suozzi wants to take the tough love approach," said John J. Hallacy, the managing director in charge of municipal research at Merrill Lynch. "Let's swallow the hard medicine now, and later on it will all be better." 
Governor Pataki's budget for New York State has more spoonfuls of sugar than bitter medicine.
Sure, there's a $5.1 billion deficit. Sure, the recession and the attack on the World Trade Center have driven down tax revenues sharply. But Mr. Pataki's budget avoids layoffs, keeps previously planned tax cuts in place, and raises spending by more than the rate of inflation. Shortly before he released his preliminary budget, he approved a sweeping health care law that boosts payments to hospitals and nursing homes by $1.7 billion.
In part this is because during the boom times, New York State squirreled away hundreds of millions of dollars in reserve funds. When he announced his budget in January, Mr. Pataki said that those reserves had been set aside for a rainy day.
"We didn't get a rainy day, but we got a monsoon," Mr. Pataki said.
But there is another political reality behind Mr. Pataki's budget, in that this is an election year for the governor.
No one was terribly surprised earlier this month when the state's largest health care union, 1199/S.E.I.U., New York's Health and Human Services Union, crossed party lines and endorsed Mr. Pataki, a Republican, over either of the two Democrats seeking to challenge him.
Much of that $1.7 billion health bill will go to the union's membership in the form of salary increases.
Budget watchdogs have long observed that election year budgets are different from all other budgets. No incumbent, after all, wants to run for re-election while slashing services and making unpopular cuts. Raymond D. Horton, a professor at Columbia Business School, once analyzed the trend by looking at New York City budgets. "The record was almost uniform," he recalled. "When you adjust for price changes, spending went up in mayoral election years and either declined, or went up at a much lower rate, the year afterwards."
In New Jersey, this is the year after the election-year budget. And it shows.
The new governor, Mr. McGreevey, has been blunt in his contention that the state's troubles stem not only from the economic downturn but also in part from the excessive spending of last year, when his predecessor raised state spending by 8.4 percent, well above the rate of inflation and the national average.
New Jersey has the worst deficit, percentage-wise, of any state, officials say: $5.3 billion, which is more than 20 percent of its total budget. Mr. McGreevey is cutting all state agencies by 5 percent, scaling back construction and maintenance projects, and borrowing $1.1 billion against the state's share of the federal tobacco settlement.
There is one taboo, though. Taxes. Sort of. 
The reason is the specter that haunts the State House in Trenton. The specter of Jim Florio. No politician there can forget 1990, when Governor Florio, a Democrat struggling to close a giant deficit, raised taxes. In short order that tax increase cost the Democrats the governor's mansion and control of both houses of the state legislature.
"I think it's become embedded in the folklore of New Jersey politics," said Ross K. Baker, a professor of political science at Rutgers University.
So it was perhaps not too surprising that Mr. McGreevey, the first Democrat to win the governor's seat since then, pledged during his campaign not to raise taxes. Later, he lowered expectations, saying he meant he would not raise sales taxes or income taxes. In fact, he is planning to collect more in corporate taxes, and to raise cigarette taxes.
And by freezing aid to local governments, Mr. McGreevey will likely force them to increase local property taxes to meet their rising costs. This, Democrats note, is just what happened when Gov. Christie Whitman, a Republican, cut income taxes.
Taxes have become the defining line in New York City, as well. 
When Mayor Bloomberg released his budget, he called it a "spread-your-pain, no-sacred-cow kind of a solution to our problem." He proposed closing senior centers, reducing the size of the police force, and cutting aid to schools and almost all agencies. 
And arguing that the attack on the World Trade Center was an extraordinary catastrophe that warranted extraordinary measures, he signed off on a plan to borrow more than $1.5 billion to help the city pay its day-to-day operating expenses. That is money that future taxpayers will have to pay back, with interest.
One thing Mr. Bloomberg did not call for, though, was higher taxes now. Yes, he wants to raise cigarette taxes by $1.42 a pack, but politicians apparently decided long ago that no-new-taxes pledges do not apply to smokers. And he describes the proposal as more of an antismoking measure than a revenue raiser.
But Mr. Bloomberg, a businessman with no prior experience in politics, makes it clear that he sees his mandate as making New York business-friendly enough to retain, and even attract, companies that have had second thoughts since the city's financial district was paralyzed by the terrorist attack in September. And, as part of that mandate, he has made it clear that he thinks higher taxes will frighten away businesses.
Others are not so sure. A couple of polls have indicated that New Yorkers would be willing to pay more taxes to help the city through its troubles. Some in the City Council have made noise about raising revenues, arguing that if the poor, the elderly, and schoolchildren are being asked to sacrifice, wealthy people and businesses should be asked as well. It is sure to be a flash point when the budget is negotiated this spring.
The current round of budget wars across the region is quite a departure from those of the last few years, when, except for Nassau County, most governments were fighting over what to do with their surpluses. But analysts say that there are ways out. 
"We had a good run there for a while," said Mr. Hallacy of Merrill Lynch. "But they will find there are ways out of the hole, if they can get objective."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Facing deficits, from left: James E. McGreevey of New Jersey, Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City, George E. Pataki of New York, and Thomas R. Suozzi of Nassau County. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times); (Keith Meyers/The New York Times); (David Jennings for The New York Times); (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); COUNTIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); BONDS (69%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (62%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (50%) TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%) COOPER, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; NASSAU COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



813 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8A; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 3091 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
PREVIEW 02

 BODY:
This preview was written by Murray Chass. Teams are listed in predicted order of finish.

A.L. EAST

NEW YORK YANKEES
Joe Torre, seventh year 2001: 95-65, first place
The Yankees suffered a series of relatively minor, but nevertheless nagging, injuries in spring training. They may mean nothing in the long run, but if the Yankees are to be pushed from their impenetrable perch, perhaps the setbacks that Rondell White, Bernie Williams, Derek Jeter, Jason Giambi, Andy Pettitte, Ramiro Mendoza and Sterling Hitchcock experienced this spring will prove to be an omen.
 But, the Yankees also begin the season with the sort of strong pitching staff that has fueled their run of five World Series appearances in six years. 
 For a team that has been so dominant, the Yankees have undergone a major overhaul, and one test for Joe Torre will be to blend the new players seamlessly with the old. It's something Bobby Cox has done well with the perennial division-champion Atlanta Braves. For White to blend in, he will have to be healthy, a status he has often failed to achieve.

KEY ADDITIONS: Jason Giambi, Robin Ventura, Rondell White, John Vander Wal, David Wells, Steve Karsay.
KEY LOSSES: Tino Martinez, Scott Brosius, Paul O'Neill, David Justice, Chuck Knoblauch.
KEY TO SEASON: The new guys just have to look at recent seasons to see how it's done.

PROBABLE STARTERS

1B Jason Giambi
2B Alfonso Soriano
SS Derek Jeter
3B Robin Ventura
LF Rondell White
CF Bernie Williams
RF John Vander Wal Shane Spencer
C Jorge Posada
DH Nick Johnson
SP Roger Clemens
Mike Mussina
Andy Pettitte
David Wells
Orlando Hernandez
Closer Mariano Rivera

BOSTON RED SOX
Grady Little, first year 2001: 82-79, second
These are the new Red Sox. Pedro and Nomar are still there -- and they have been pronounced healthy, along with Jason Varitek -- but the owners are new, the top executives in the front office are new and the manager is new.
Gone is Dan Duquette, the general manager, who three Cy Young awards ago pronounced Roger Clemens in the "twilight of his career" and who alienated Mo Vaughn, too. Gone is Joe Kerrigan, the novice manager Duquette appointed last August; Kerrigan couldn't figure out how to overcome adversity, as his predecessor, Jimy Williams, had done.
Grady Little is the new manager, a major league rookie after trying out in the minors for 16 years. He comes highly recommended. Rickey Henderson, at 43, is a new player, the holder of three career records: stolen bases, runs scored and walks.

KEY ADDITIONS: Johnny Damon, Tony Clark, Rey Sanchez, John Burkett, Dustin Hermanson.
KEY LOSSES: Carl Everett, Hideo Nomo, David Cone.
KEY TO SEASON: The amount of help Burkett and Hermanson, among others, give Pedro Martinez in the starting rotation will determine how far the new Red Sox go.

PROBABLE STARTERS

1B Tony Clark
2B Rey Sanchez
SS Nomar Garciaparra
3B Shea Hillenbrand
LF Manny Ramirez
CF Johnny Damon
RF Trot Nixon
C Jason Varitek
DH Brian Daubach
Rickey Henderson
SP Pedro Martinez
Dustin Hermanson
Derek Lowe
Frank Castillo
Darren Oliver
(John Burkett d.l.)
Closer Ugueth Urbina

Toronto Blue Jays
Buck Martinez, second year 2001: 80-82, third
In what has become the volatile world of general managers, J.P. Ricciardi was hired to shake things up (and get the payroll down) in an organization whose memory of two consecutive World Series championships has faded. Ricciardi, replacing Gord Ash, acted swiftly, trading the closer, Billy Koch; the incumbent shortstop, Alex Gonzalez; a possible shortstop replacement, Cesar Izturis; and the designated hitter, Brad Fullmer.
Felipe Lopez will play short, and Eric Hinske, a rookie acquired for Koch, will play third. Luke Prokopec, an Australian acquired for Izturis, will be the No. 2 starting pitcher. Vernon Wells isn't new, but he should play an expanded role in center field or as a designated hitter
Mike Barnett, the new hitting coach, will try to get the team's hitters to force pitchers to go deeper in counts.

KEY ADDITIONS: Luke Prokopec, Eric Hinske.
KEY LOSSES: Billy Koch, Alex Gonzalez, Brad Fullmer.
KEY TO SEASON: They have to find a way to get people back to the Skydome, where attendance fell to 1.9 million last year from 4 million in 1991 to 1993.

PROBABLE STARTERS

1B Carlos Delgado
2B Homer Bush
SS Felipe Lopez
3B Eric Hinske
LF Vernon Wells
CF Jose Cruz Jr.
RF Raul Mondesi
C Darrin Fletcher
DH Shannon Stewart
SP Chris Carpenter
Luke Prokopec
Roy Halladay
Brandon Lyon
Scott Eyre
Closer Kelvim Escobar

Baltimore Orioles
Mike Hargrove, third year 2001: 63-98, fourth
If his fans are looking for Cal Ripken, they won't find him at third base. They won't, in fact, find him at Camden Yards. The man who didn't miss a game for 2,632 games spanning nearly 17 seasons now owns a team in nearby Aberdeen, Md., instead of playing for one in Baltimore.
The post-Ripken era does not promise to jump off to a resounding start. The Orioles are lacking the kind of talent they often had in the past few decades and face an arduous task in returning to contending status. They plan to get there on the strength of what they say is their up-and-coming pitching.
In the meantime, they will rely on a veteran pitcher, Scott Erickson, back after a year-and-a-half absence, to help them strive for respectability.

KEY ADDITIONS: Marty Cordova, Chris Singleton.
KEY LOSSES: Cal Ripken, Brady Anderson.
KEY TO SEASON: The good young pitchers the Orioles say they have can't arrive too soon.

PROBABLE STARTERS

1B Jeff Conine
2B Jerry Hairston Jr.
SS Mike Bordick
3B Tony Batista
LF Marty Cordova
CF Chris Singleton
RF Jay Gibbons
C Brook Fordyce
DH David Segui
SP Scott Erickson
Jason Johnson
Sidney Ponson
Josh Towers
(Calvin Maduro d.l.)
Closer Jorge Julio

Tampa Bay Devil Rays
Hal McRae, second year 2001: 62-100, fifth
This is the fifth season for this sad-sack franchise, and it still seeks its first 70-victory season. There's little reason to think this will be the year.
The Devil Rays look as much like an expansion franchise as they did in 1998, and no matter how positive and aggressive an attitude Hal McRae instills in them, they don't figure to have the ingredients to make a drastic improvement over last year's franchise-worst record of 62-100. Their dreadful defense alone will undermine them.
Tanyon Sturtze is the No. 1 pitcher. He will be one of five players expected to be in the opening-day lineup who have three years or less of major league experience.
One of the team's few veterans is Wilson Alvarez, who returns to the pitching rotation after missing two seasons with a torn rotator cuff.

KEY ADDITION: None.
KEY LOSS: None.
KEY TO SEASON: McRae has to find a way -- magic tricks? -- to break the 70-victory barrier.

PROBABLE STARTERS

1B Steve Cox
2B Brent Abernathy
SS Chris Gomez
3B Russ Johnson
LF Jason Tyner
CF Randy Winn
RF Ben Grieve
C Toby Hall
DH Greg Vaughn
SP Tanyon Sturtze
Paul Wilson
Joe Kennedy
Wilson Alvarez
Closer Esteban Yan

A.L. CENTRAL

MINNESOTA TWINS
Ron Gardenhire, first year 2001: 85-77, second
Rescued from the executioner's blade, the Twins could write the best story of the season by winning the division championship. They have the starting pitching to do it.
They also have a new manager as Ron Gardenhire replaces the retired Tom Kelly. A former Mets infielder should find the season relaxing after the agonizing winter he spent, first waiting to learn if he would be the manager, then waiting to learn if he would have a team to manage.
The starting pitchers of Brad Radke, Eric Milton, Joe Mays and Rick Reed should be the division's best and deepest staff, but the relief corps doesn't have their quality.
With Brian Buchanan in right, the Twins will also have three starting players -- Milton and shortstop Cristian Guzman being the others -- from their 1998 trade with the Yankees for Chuck Knoblauch.

KEY ADDITION: None.
KEY LOSS: Todd Jones.
KEY TO SEASON: Ron Gardenhire can't let the Twins be overwhelmed by the expectations that have risen from the team's surprising play last season.

PROBABLE STARTERS

1B Doug Mientkiewicz
2B Luis Rivas
ss Cristian Guzman
3B Corey Koskie
LF Jacque Jones
CF Torii Hunter
RF Brian Buchanan
C A.J. Pierzynski
DH David Ortiz
SP Brad Radke
Eric Milton
Joe Mays
Rick Reed
Kyle Lohse
Closer Eddie Guardado

CLEVELAND INDIANS
Charlie Manuel, third year 2001: 91-71, first
Mark Shapiro, the new general manager, chose a bold, but risky, way of introducing himself: he traded Roberto Alomar. Combined with the economic decision to let Juan Gonzalez go, the Alomar trade for Matt Lawton was a clear signal that the Indians would become a pitching-driven team.
That plan places a large responsibility on Bartolo Colon and C.C. Sabathia and also puts a premium on the development of two rookie starters - Danys Baez, a 24-year-old Cuban defector, and Ryan Drese.
Lawton replaces Gonzalez in right field, and Ricky Gutierrez will take Alomar's place at second. The Indians had expected Alex Escobar, acquired with Lawton, to play center, but he is out for the season with a knee injury. The inexperienced Milton Bradley and the veteran Brady Anderson could share the job.

KEY ADDITIONS: Matt Lawton, Ricky Gutierrez.
KEY LOSSES: Roberto Alomar, Juan Gonzalez, Kenny Lofton.
KEY TO SEASON: If the conversion from reliance on hitting to reliance on pitching works, the Indians will contend for their seventh division title in eight years.

PROBABLE STARTERS

1B Jim Thome
2B Ricky Guttierez
SS Omar Vizquel
3B Travis Fryman
LF Russell Branyan
CF Milton Bradley
RF Matt Lawton
C Einar Diaz
DH Ellis Burks
SP Bartolo Colon
C.C. Sabathia
Chuck Finley
Danys Baez
Ryan Drese
Closer Bob Wickman

Chicago White Sox
Jerry Manuel, fifth year 2001: 83-79, third
Lloyd McClendon, his previous manager, says Todd Ritchie can win 15 to 18 games for the White Sox. Ritchie, obtained from Pittsburgh for three younger pitchers, better win at least that many if his new team wants to challenge for the division title. The other four starters have a total of 3 1/4 years in the major leagues. Jon Rauch has not pitched an inning in the majors, and Dan Wright made 12 starts last season.
With no guarantees there, the White Sox will look to their offense to make them a contender. The offense will be fueled by Frank Thomas, who played only 20 games last year before tearing his right triceps and missing the rest of the season. Kenny Lofton, signed as a free agent, won't add any sparks unless he improves on the most feeble performance of his 10-year career.

KEY ADDITIONS: Todd Ritchie, Kenny Lofton.
KEY LOSSES: Chris Singleton, David Wells.
KEY TO SEASON: Rapid development on the mound is a necessity.

PROBABLE STARTERS

1B Paul Konerko
2B Ray Durham
SS Royce Clayton
3B Jose Valentin
LF Carlos Lee
CF Kenny Lofton
RF Magglio Ordonez
C Sandy Alomar Jr.
DH Frank Thomas
SP Mark Buehrle
Todd Ritchie
Jon Garland
Dan Wright
Jon Rauch
Closer Keith Foulke

KANSAS CITY ROYALS
Tony Muser, sixth year 2001: 65-97, fifth
While the Twins have almost certainly slipped the contraction noose, the Royals could take their place on the gallows if baseball's owners pursue their plan to eliminate two teams. Gone are the days when Ewing Kauffman was spending what it took to make the Royals a contender. Gone, too, are the days when the Royals drew two million fans.
The trades of outfielders Johnny Damon and Jermaine Dye last year were exhibits A and B of the downward change in the Royals' fortunes. Mike Sweeney, their incumbent first baseman, could have become Exhibit C but he isn't going anywhere, having agreed to a five-year, $55 million extension on Friday. Chuck Knoblauch was in such a bind as a free agent, on the other hand, that he went from the Yankees to the Royals.
Another newcomer is a pitcher, Darrell May, who returns to the majors after a four-year hiatus in Japan.

KEY ADDITIONS: Chuck Knoblauch, Michael Tucker.
KEY LOSS: None.
KEY TO SEASON: They will again run in place, fighting the Tigers for fourth.

PROBABLE STARTERS

1B Mike Sweeney
2B Carlos Febles
SS Neifi Perez
3B Joe Randa
LF Chuck Knoblauch
CF Carlos Beltran
C Brent Mayne
DH Raul Ibanez
(Mark Quinn d.l.)
SP Jeff Suppan
Dan Reichert
Paul Byrd
Chad Durbin
Darrell May
Closer Roberto Hernandez

DETROIT TIGERS
Phil Garner, third year 2001: 66-96, fourth
Like other teams with new parks, the Tigers had hoped to copy the Cleveland Indians' success in building a team that could win in its new home. But the Tigers have moved in reverse, failing to reach .500 in their first year at Comerica Park, then winning 13 fewer games last season. Randy Smith is no John Hart, the architect of the Indians' success.
The Tigers have obtained Dmitri Young, hoping he can spark the lifeless team. He hit better than .300 in each of his four seasons with Cincinnati. A strong comeback from third baseman and designated hitter Dean Palmer (shoulder surgery) would also help.
But the Tigers will need a lot more help to end their streak of eight successive losing seasons, the longest such streak in the league since the Seattle Mariners compiled losing records in their first 14 seasons (1977 through 1990).

KEY ADDITIONS: Dmitri Young.
KEY LOSSES: Tony Clark, Roger Cedeno.
KEY TO SEASON: Patience, and a change in attitude among the players, would be a start.

PROBABLE STARTERS

1B Dmitri Young
2B Damion Easley
SS Shane Halter
3B Dean Palmer
Craig Paquette
LF Bobby Higginson
CF Jose Macias
RF Robert Fick
C Mike Rivera
DH Mitch Meluskey
Dean Palmer
SP Jeff Weaver
Steve Sparks
Jose Lima
Mark Redman
Nate Cornejo
Closer Matt Anderson

A.L. WEST

SEATTLE MARINERS
Lou Piniella, 10th year 2001: 116-46, first
Of the Mariners, it said here a year ago: "Last year the Mariners lost Ken Griffey Jr. and won 12 more games than they did the year before, so this year they should win maybe 100 games because they lost Alex Rodriguez, right? If only it worked that way."
It worked better than that. The Mariners, in one of the most remarkable performances ever, won 116 games, tying the major league record and exceeding the league-record 114 victories the Yankees amassed in 1998. So what can the Mariners do for an encore?
The Yankees, in 1999, won 16 fewer games and still finished first. The Mariners could have a similar experience. They had the league's best offense last season and have added Jeff Cirillo (.313 with Colorado) and a resurgent Ruben Sierra (1 home run every 15 at-bats with Texas).

KEY ADDITIONS: Jeff Cirillo, Ruben Sierra, James Baldwin.
KEY LOSSES: Aaron Sele, David Bell.
KEY TO SEASON: Unless American League pitchers have learned how to get Ichiro Suzuki out, he and the Mariners will reign again.

PROBABLE STARTERS

1B John Olerud
2B Bret Boone
SS Carlos Guillen
3B Jeff Cirillo
LF Ruben Sierra
Mark McLemore
CF Mike Cameron
RF Ichiro Suzuki
C Dan Wilson
DH Edgar Martinez
SP Freddy Garcia
Jamie Moyer
James Baldwin
Paul Abbott
Joel Pineiro
Closer Kazuhiro Sasaki

OAKLAND ATHLETICS
Art Howe, seventh year 2001: 102-60, second
This upstart team from the lower economic depths will learn this season if the core of their strength the past two seasons was their starting pitching or Jason Giambi. Giambi is gone; Tim Hudson, Mark Mulder and Barry Zito remain.
Giambi, gone to the land of wealth and World Series rings, was the league's most valuable player two years ago, but last season Oakland's three young pitchers collected more victories (56) than the Yankees' Roger Clemens, Mike Mussina and Andy Pettitte (52).
The pitchers, on the other hand, may encounter nights when the absence of Giambi's bat will leave them a run or two short. The Athletics hope that Carlos Pena can develop as Giambi's replacement, but he had a poor spring, leaving a catcher, Scott Hatteberg, as the alternative at first base. David Justice should supply some of the lost production.

KEY ADDITIONS: David Justice, Billy Koch.
KEY LOSSES: Jason Giambi, Jason Isringhausen, Johnny Damon.
KEY TO SEASON: They will have to duplicate the Mariners' trick of improving despite the loss of their best player.

PROBABLE STARTERS

1B Carlos Pena
2B Randy Velarde
Frank Menechino
SS Miguel Tejada
3B Eric Chavez
LF Jeremy Giambi
CF Terrence Long
RF David Justice
(Jermaine Dye d.l.)
C Ramon Hernandez
DH Scott hatteberg
SP Mark Mulder
Tim Hudson
Barry Zito
Corey Lidle
Erik Hiljus
Closer Billy Koch

Texas Rangers
Jerry Narron, second year 2001: 73-89, fourth
Last year the Rangers added Alex Rodriguez and finished 43 games out despite his 52 home runs and 135 runs batted in. They finished last despite having the league's highest slugging percentage. They finished last because they had a 5.71 earned run average.
So the new general manager, John Hart, went out and scooped up seemingly every arm that was attached to a shoulder. Starters Chan Ho Park and Ismael Valdes, who began their careers as teammates in Los Angeles, are two of the free-agent recruits.
New to the bullpen is John Rocker, who has been less outspoken and less effective than he used to be. Hart has added another potentially volatile personality, Carl Everett, and has also brought home Juan Gonzalez. Joining the veteran outfielders in the lineup is a rookie third baseman, Hank Blalock.

KEY ADDITIONS: Juan Gonzalez, Carl Everett, Chan Ho Park, Ismael Valdes.
KEY LOSSES: Rick Helling, Darren Oliver, Ruben Sierra.
KEY TO SEASON: Pitching, pitching, pitching.

PROBABLE STARTERS

1B Rafael Palmeiro
2B Mike Young
Frank Catalanotto
SS Alex Rodriguez
3B Hank Blalock
LF Gabe Kapler
CF Carl Everett
RF Juan Gonzalez
C Ivan Rodriguez
DH Rusty Greer
SP Chan Ho Park
Kenny Rogers
Dave Burba
Doug Davis
Ismael Valdes
Closer John Rocker
(Jeff Zimmerman d.l.)

Anaheim Angels
Mike Scioscia, third year 2001: 75-87, third
In the questionable way they have operated over the years, the Angels do a good imitation of a low-revenue team. They have also made questionable player moves. But this winter they were determined to upgrade their pitching, and they signed two proven winners, Kevin Appier and Aaron Sele. Sele, who in the past four years has compiled a 69-35 record, and Appier, who has a 42-35 record over that same span, should help the Angels climb back toward .500, where they had been for three of the four seasons before last year.
However improved the pitching is, the hitters have to be more productive. Last year, the Angels were 12th in the A.L. in runs scored, scoring only 19 more than the league's weakest team, Tampa Bay. Brad Fullmer, the designated hitter, was the only hitter they added.

KEY ADDITIONS: Brad Fullmer, Kevin Appier, Aaron Sele.
KEY LOSS: Mo Vaughn.
KEY TO SEASON: Maybe if Disney succeeds in selling the team, the new owner will figure out a way to run it right.

PROBABLE STARTERS

1B Scott Spiezio
2B Adam Kennedy
SS David Eckstein
3B Troy Glaus
LF Garret Anderson
CF Darin Erstad
RF Tim Salmon
C Bengie Molina
DH Brad Fullmer
SP Kevin Appier
Aaron Sele
Jarrod Washburn
Ramon Ortiz
Scott Schoeneweis
Closer Troy Percival

GRAPHIC: Photos: JOHNNY DAMON; TORII HUNTER; BARRY ZITO; MIKE SWEENEY; (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); SPORTS AWARDS (68%); EXECUTIVES (61%) BASEBALL 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); ATLANTA BRAVES (55%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (58%) CHASS, MURRAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); BOSTON, MA, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (73%); GEORGIA, USA (55%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 



814 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: H&R Block Is Sued by City Over Loan Ads 

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
The New York City Department of Consumer Affairs has filed a lawsuit asserting that H&R Block, the tax consulting company, uses deceptive advertising to mislead taxpayers about a loan program, department officials said on Friday.
 The lawsuit, filed in State Supreme Court in Manhattan on March 12 and first reported last week in Newsday, asserts that ads about the loans, meant to provide filers with cash in anticipation of their refunds, did not explain the high interest rates H&R Block charges. The lawsuit says that many of those who sign up for the loans are low-income customers who can ill afford the rates, which in some cases exceed 50 percent. 
 John Radziejewski, a spokesman for the Consumer Affairs Department, said that officials "dissuade consumers from using these types of loans because the interest rates are exorbitantly high." But, he added, "Our problem with H&R Block is that they blur the distinction between rapid refunds and loans with consumers, in ads and over the phone."
Officials at H&R Block, based in Kansas City, Mo., dismissed the lawsuit in a statement. "The company has acted in good faith over the last several months in trying to reach a settlement regarding the alleged violations," H&R Block said. "Our efforts have been virtually ignored by D.C.A."
Denise Sposato, a spokeswoman for the company, said it believed that the city's real complaint was not about deceptive advertising, but with the concept of the so-called refund anticipation loans. She said that the company planned to phase them out by 2005, the year that Congress has demanded that the Internal Revenue Service have a system in place allowing those who file their taxes over the Internet to receive refunds in two to three days.
At the heart of the city's contention is that ads for H&R Block's Instant Money service do not make clear that it is a loan with a high rate of interest. The lawsuit says that while the ads do disclose that information in small print, the size of the type violates city rules that mandate conspicuous disclosure of such material. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (94%); LITIGATION (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (57%) TAXATION; CREDIT; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ADVERTISING; MISLEADING AND DECEPTIVE ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: H & R BLOCK INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: BLOCK, H & R, INC 

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (90%) SIC7291 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: BLAIR, JAYSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002 

 
