

1 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: VANISHING POINT; 
You Can Go Home Again, but a Farmer's Sons Find It's Not So Profitable

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: DENISON, Iowa 

 BODY:
On the eve of World War II, John Shields bought a 160-acre farm here with a handshake and a pledge to make cash payments whenever he could.
 By the time victory was declared, Mr. Shields had sold enough milk from his dairy herd and meat from his hogs and cattle to settle the $4,000 debt. 
 In the next 20 years, he nearly tripled the size of the farm, planting corn and oats and making enough to put his five children through college, while still saving more than $250,000 for retirement. 
Today, his son and namesake, John Shields, can barely keep himself afloat on the same 470 acres.
The soil is fertile as ever, and yields have more than doubled. But he has spent all his savings, sold the last of his small cattle herd and now worries that he will not be able to afford medical insurance.
Mr. Shields, 63, is not struggling alone. He is just one of hundreds of thousands of small farmers nationwide who are trying to adapt to the mixed blessing of modern industrial farming, which has devastated rural livelihoods even as it radically increased crop yields and helped ensure America's global agricultural dominance.
American agriculture has undergone a revolution in the last 30 years, as changes in technology, global markets and government policy have produced a wave of farm consolidations and mergers. Farms are producing far bigger crops with far fewer people, through new breeding techniques and new seeds, fertilizers, pesticides and other chemicals. Now a farmer can work thousands of acres from the seat of a tractor, calling in help only at planting and harvesting.
But agriculture has become so expensive that only the biggest farms reliably turn profits, by taking advantage of economies of scale and the government subsidy system. Whether it is row crops, ranching or food processing, the trend is the same: big farms have pushed to become ever bigger by buying out their neighbors.
Federal farm policy has had a major role in promoting the trend, in the name of ensuring that the United States remains self-sufficient in food and dominates the global marketplace. Proponents of farm consolidation point to the $50 billion trade surplus for American agriculture, one of the few bright spots in the otherwise yawning trade deficit.
Craig Broderson, a neighbor of Mr. Shields, said farms had to get bigger to compete with big farms in countries like Brazil. "I'm farming what five families would have farmed during my dad's time," he said.
But America's farming dominance depends on $20 billion in annual subsidies that are considered among the biggest trade barriers for poor nations struggling to improve living standards.
Since the Depression, the government has paid farmers to grow food. The system guaranteed that grain would be sold for a minimum price no matter who grew it.
But starting in the 1960's, Congress slowly switched to supporting farmers' incomes, not crop prices, saying it was less distorting for the market. Farmers received payments based on the amount of land they owned and planted crops covered by subsidies.
The largest farmers have benefited most. 
Today the top 10 percent of American farmers receive 71 percent of the federal subsidy money, or $80.5 billion of the total $114 billion given to all of the country's farmers, according to Agriculture Department figures compiled by the Environmental Working Group for the last seven years.
This payment system helps lower grain prices. That helps the agribusinesses that buy the corn and soybeans and the animals fed on those grains. It has had little effect on consumers, however. Little of their food dollar goes to the farmer. For instance, a $2 box of corn flakes contains less than 5 cents of corn.
"I'm staying on this farm, but it barely supports me and not very well," the younger Mr. Shields said.
After college, the two Shields sons began professional lives. John worked in the airline business, settling in Asia. Joseph became a salesman of hospital equipment, moving from Omaha to Des Moines and Minneapolis.
But they both missed Denison. Joseph returned first. He wanted to raise his three children in the country, so he bought a farm down the road from his father and persuaded his employer to let him work from Denison. He is able to work the farm with help on the weekends.
John came home a few years later, in the 1980's, moving in with his father, who later died, and gradually taking over.
But the community they grew up in has changed. Empty storefronts dot the main street. Barnyards have been emptied and hogs packed by the hundreds into factory-size sheds. The hogs are fed with automated tubing and their excrement siphoned off into open vats whose acrid smells are a hallmark of the new era of agriculture.
Crops that do not qualify for a subsidy are as rare as buffalo herds here. Orchards have been plowed under for corn. Truck gardens are a thing of the past. The county's farmers once grew a multitude of commercial crops, including potatoes, cherries, peaches and pears. 
Now the commercial crops are down to four: feed corn, soybeans, hay and oats. Denison has a hard time filling a farmer's market one afternoon a week.
Fewer farmers usually means shrinking towns. In Denison, people whose ancestors began settling the area more than 100 years ago have been forced out, almost family by family. Still, it has kept its population around 5,000, thanks to an influx of immigrants from Mexico.
These migrants work at what are now the biggest employers in Denison: packing plants that slaughter up to 9,000 hogs a day. At first, people here thought the plants would be a boon. In 1983, base pay was about $11 an hour. But wages have slipped to as little as $9 an hour.
The prices farmers get for hogs are the same as in 1975 -- 40 to 60 cents a pound per live hog.
"Before, we sold our hogs for good prices, but once the big plants came, they would dock us because the animal was either too fat or too thin," John Shields said. "Dad spent time with his hogs and his cattle; the way he raised animals, he would be considered a hobby farmer today."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Shields was flanked by Dean Bowden, kneeling, and Bob Collins, right, at a livestock market in October in Denison, Iowa. During a sale, Mr. Bowden bought 20 of Mr. Shields's cows; Mr. Collins bought 3. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); TRENDS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); DAIRY FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); MERGERS (78%); PESTICIDES (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (78%); FERTILIZERS (78%); FACTORY FARMS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); FAMILY (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (65%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (57%); HEALTH INSURANCE (53%) AGRICULTURE 

PERSON: BECKER, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



2 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1594 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Option At Convention: A Luxury Liner 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL SLACKMAN 

 BODY:
It is being billed as the perfect place for celebrations during the Republican National Convention next summer, with shows, fine works of art, health clubs, bars, cafes, amazing views, luxury staterooms and restaurants serving cuisine from around the world. And it is just a short walk to Midtown.
 But before its visitors can cross a New York City street, they will have to pass over a gangplank. The Norwegian Dawn, a 2,240-passenger luxury cruise liner, has 15 decks, 14 bars and lounges and babbling brooks. But even docked at a pier on the Hudson River, it is not New York City. And, to many critics, that is the point. 
 The House majority leader, Tom DeLay, would like the ship to serve as a floating entertainment center for Republican members of Congress, and their guests, when the convention comes to New York City next Aug. 30 to Sept. 2. 
"Our floating hotel will provide members an opportunity to stay in one place, in a secure fashion," said a spokesman for Mr. DeLay, Jonathan Grella. He did not elaborate. 
Perhaps Mr. Grella is reluctant to talk because Mr. DeLay's idea has infuriated a cross section of New Yorkers, much to the delight of Democrats and the embarrassment of some Republicans. 
New York would lose money if Mr. DeLay decides to charter the ship because it would draw visitors -- and dollars -- away from city hotels, restaurants and shops.
As for the more ephemeral issue of perception, the proposal to remove visitors from the hubbub of city life has been broadly received as a slight -- a suggestion that the city's hotels and restaurants, not to mention its people, are not quite good enough for Republicans from out of state.
Republicans are not necessarily happy, either. Many say the cruise ship could undermine one reason New York was chosen for the first time in the party's history as the site of its convention: to help advance the idea that Republicans are the new big-tent party, trying to embrace all voters.
Instead, Republican strategists say, being docked on the Hudson River would send out the message that they are a bunch of elitists who will not mingle with city residents -- and just might be ducking New York's laws, including the one that prohibits smoking in public places (a cruise ship might be exempt, or at least unwelcome territory for a city health inspector).
"In an era of nonstop news and visuals, do you want the visual of the convention to be a group of people sequestered on a cruise ship?" said one Republican strategist, who added that there is a lot of hand-wringing among Republicans in New York and Washington over the plan. 
Still, few Republicans are willing to publicly challenge Mr. DeLay, whose nickname in Congress is the Hammer. 
Representative Vito J. Fossella of Staten Island, the only Republican in the New York City Congressional delegation, initially worked with Mr. DeLay to present the cruise ship idea to the other members. Now, all his spokesman will say is that the idea of the ship is not Mr. Fossella's, he is merely passing on the information to his fellow party members.
Gov. George E. Pataki, the three-term Republican who said in a statement that he would prefer to see conventiongoers use New York's hotels, has not publicly called for Mr. DeLay to abandon the idea. 
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a fellow Republican whose relations with Mr. DeLay have nonetheless been strained, has also been cautious with his remarks.
One Republican strategist said he imagined that New York tabloids would run headlines like "Ship of Fools" or "Titanic."
Representative Peter T. King, a Republican from Nassau County, said: "I won't be on the ship. If they want to have it, fine." But, he added, "I think it could send the wrong signal, that Republicans are isolated from the city, just wining and dining and drinking and not being part of city life."
That is exactly what has New York's Democrats chortling. "What is it? They don't want to be contaminated by us?" said Representative Charles B. Rangel, a Democrat from Harlem. He vowed to wage a campaign against the cruise ship and criticized Mr. Bloomberg for not speaking out more vociferously. "It is a very, very unfriendly thing to do," Mr. Rangel said.
But Mr. DeLay has indicated that he has no plan to back off.
Mr. DeLay has won power -- and loyalty -- from Republican members of Congress by making sure they were treated luxuriously. He saw to it that House ethics rules were changed so that members could accept free trips and lodging to attend charity events. 
At the Republican convention in Philadelphia in 2000, he provided representatives with cars and drivers, and he set up a hospitality suite inside a luxury railroad car. This time, he would not be footing the bill for the ship, but is the driving force behind making it available during the convention, according to Republicans.
The idea of using the cruise ship, which operates out of New York City year-round for Norwegian Cruise Line, first came up when the company approached Republican leaders several weeks ago, a company spokeswoman said. The cruise line has also approached Democrats about their convention, which will be held in Boston in July, but those talks have not progressed as far as they have with the Republicans, said a spokeswoman, Susan Robison.
Ms. Robison and a DeLay aide also confirmed that Susan Hirschman, Mr. DeLay's former chief of staff, is a member of the lobbying firm hired by the ship's owners to pursue this kind of business.
Ms. Hirschman did not return a call for comment, and Ms. Robison said she did not know if Ms. Hirschman made the original pitch to the Republican leadership. But once the pitch was delivered, Mr. DeLay and Mr. Fossella presented the plan to Congressional Republicans.
Immediately, the proposal was viewed by many political insiders as another episode in the increasingly hostile relationship between Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. DeLay. In October, Mr. Bloomberg called on wealthy New Yorkers to avoid giving donations to any member of Congress who does not help New York. He singled out Mr. DeLay, saying, for example, that he had made a proposal to change federal financing formulas that would cost the city $300 million in federal transportation aid. 
Mr. Bloomberg has reacted cautiously to the ship episode, making statements that are carefully worded to avoid antagonizing the majority leader. Nonetheless, he has made his feelings about the cruise ship proposal known.
"We have plenty of hotel rooms, it's a safe city, it's the safest place you can be almost with a lot of people around you, is right here in the streets of New York City, and why you'd want to be away from that, I don't know," the mayor said last week when reporters asked about the proposal.
People close to Mr. DeLay said that he was not too happy with the mayor's remarks to potential donors in New York, but that they did not think that Mr. DeLay proposed the cruise ship to spite Mr. Bloomberg.
"I think DeLay felt there was a benefit of being on a cruise ship," said one Congressional Republican who spoke on the condition that he not be identified. "He felt it was classy and upscale."
It is upscale. In fact, people who stay there will, on average, pay higher room prices than they would for the negotiated rates in New York hotels. The Republican National Committee has booked 22,000 hotel rooms for the convention at an average rate of about $196 per night; in comparison, the rate on the ship is about $240 to $430 a night, according to recent news reports. Ship guests would have to pay state and city sales taxes, but it is not clear if they would also have to pay the city's hotel taxes, according to the city and the cruise line. 
The mayor's office said it was also unclear whether the city's law banning smoking in all restaurants and bars would apply to the cruise ship. That would have to be studied further, a spokesman said.
The Norwegian Dawn has 10 restaurants. It also has grand Garden Villa suites with a garden and babbling brooks. The ship has a children's park with a dinosaur theme, and it has a 1,000-seat theater. It is registered in the Bahamas, and its staff is multinational, Ms. Robison said. 
Mr. DeLay's aides, as well as representatives for the cruise line, have tried to argue that Norwegian Cruise Line brings business to the city because the ship operates out of New York year round, and that this, too, would bring in revenue. Local people would be hired for jobs like baggage handling and passenger check-in, Ms. Robison said.
But those arguments did little to dampen the criticism, including charges that the Republicans misled New York businesses when they negotiated to bring the convention to the city.
"It is certainly not within the spirit of the convention, and the committee's pledge to help drive the economic engine of New York City," said Joseph E. Spinnato, president of the Hotel Association of New York City, in a statement. "It also does not conform to the negotiations conducted in good faith between the Republican National Committee and the hotels."
Cristyne L. Nicholas, the president of NYC & Company, the city's tourism bureau, also criticized the cruise ship plan. Ms. Nicholas, whose ex-boss, former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, is an official host of the convention, said the ship sent the wrong message about New York and would deprive its passengers of enjoying what New York has to offer.
But, she said: "I'm an optimist. If Tom DeLay goes to the West Side, maybe he will see the need for the transportation money. Maybe he'll see how much help New York needs from the federal government."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Tom DeLay wants the Norwegian Dawn, right, to be Republicans' home away from home in New York during the convention. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CRUISES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); SMOKING (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); SHIPS AND SHIPPING; CRUISES 

PERSON: VITO FOSSELLA (58%) SLACKMAN, MICHAEL; DELAY, TOM (REP) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



3 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: The State of Health Care, in One Easy Number 

BYLINE:  By Rexford E. Santerre; Rexford E. Santerre is a professor at the Center for Health Care and Insurance Studies at the University of Connecticut School of Business.

DATELINE: STORRS, Conn. 

 BODY:
Surrounding last week's Congressional debate over Medicare was a blizzard of budget figures, insurance statistics and cost projections -- an illustration of how deeply and confusingly intertwined economics and medicine have become. However, economic measures can clarify the health care picture as well as cloud it. One way for Americans to judge more easily the effectiveness of the new legislation, and of our health care system as a whole, is to adapt a leading tool of political economics: the misery index. 
 Most people are familiar with the economic misery index, which is calculated by adding the percentage of Americans out of work to the general inflation rate. It was devised by Arthur Okun, an adviser to Jimmy Carter during the 1976 presidential election campaign, and was used to demonstrate how troubled the economy had become under President Gerald Ford. Okun felt that presenting inflation and unemployment figures separately did not give a very broad picture of the economy, because one indicator can rise while the other falls. Jointly rising unemployment and inflation, however, definitely make all people miserable. 
 In a similar fashion, I have compiled a misery index for health care, going back to 1960. As the measure, I took the percentage of Americans without health insurance and added to it the "excess" health care inflation rate -- that is, the percentage by which annual increases in medical costs have exceeded general price inflation. As with combined inflation and unemployment, when both of these health care evils simultaneously increase, people are collectively made worse off.
In compiling the index, I got the insurance figures using past enrollment lists from the Health Insurance Association of America, figures from Medicare and Medicaid, and the Census Bureau's published data on the ranks of the uninsured (making careful adjustments to eliminate possible double-counting). Annual numbers from the Bureau of Labor Statistics supplied the figures on medical price inflation. 
The resulting chart shows the fluctuations in health care misery over the last 43 years, and helps us put today's figures in historical perspective. Clearly, in the early 1960's the index was excessively high. While costs of medical care were largely contained in those days, the problem was that many poor and elderly Americans lacked health insurance (Medicaid and Medicare had yet to be enacted). 
From the mid-60's through the 70's the index consistently declined, and for several reasons. In addition to the new government entitlement programs, the percentage of Americans with private insurance rose. This was largely because, as personal income tax rates increased, tax-exempt, employer-sponsored health insurance became more attractive to workers. Also, many commercial insurers that had shunned health insurance markets entered them. They were enticed by a relatively new innovation called "experience rating" -- which allowed them to calculate an individualized per-person rate for a company or a small group rather than basing each person's rates on society as a whole. Experience rating allowed these companies to offer consumers lower premiums than the historically dominant carrier, Blue Cross. 
The health care misery index bottomed out in 1979 at 5.6 percent. Stagflation may have cost Jimmy Carter the presidency, but it did have one useful byproduct: declining real prices for medical care at a time when a relatively small number of people lacked insurance.
Throughout the Reagan boom, however, the health care misery index rose continually. First, the costs of medical care were rising more rapidly than general price inflation. Second, private enrollment in health insurance plans declined relative to population, in part because President Ronald Reagan slashed marginal tax rates, giving employees and employers less incentive to participate in tax-exempt, employer-sponsored insurance. People began to take on themselves the risks of high medical costs. By 1986, the misery index stood at its highest level since 1969. 
Since 1988 the index has become less volatile, ranging from 15 percent to 19 percent annually. The number of Americans lacking insurance has stayed at 13 percent to 16 percent, and the "excess" costs of medical care, while high in most people's estimation, have stayed stable.
What do we learn from looking at the index over time? For one thing, it explodes some myths in the current health-care debate. For example, critics of the system often imply that we were better off 40 years ago because medical spending was the equivalent of only about 5 percent of the gross domestic product, whereas today it is some 14 percent. Yes, health care has gotten more expensive, but the facts are that more people are insured today and those insured have more comprehensive coverage. Thus in 2002 the index stood at 17.9 percent, less than half of the misery observed in 1960. 
Still, I think most people would agree that today's misery index is still too high, especially when compared to the late 1970's. How do we make health insurance more accessible without significantly fueling medical price inflation? I think the Bush administration proposal to offer people and families a tax credit for purchasing private health insurance appears to be a step in the right direction, as it would give a fairer shake to those without employer-sponsored insurance.
There will probably never be agreement -- between Republicans and Democrats, consumers and employers, health care providers and insurers -- as to the "acceptable" misery level. But at least we'll have a better informed debate if we look at the historical big picture.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); CENSUS (73%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); MEDICAID (58%); INCOME TAX (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HEALTH INSURANCE AND MANAGED CARE 

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (55%) SANTERRE, REXFORD E (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



4 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2887 words

HEADLINE: VANISHING POINT; 
Amid Dying Towns of Rural Plains, One Makes a Stand

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: SUPERIOR, Neb. 

 BODY:
When death comes to a small town, the school is usually the last thing to go. A place can lose its bank, its tavern, its grocery store, its shoe shop. But when the school closes, you might as well put a fork in it.
 So it was in Hardy, one of many last-gasp towns in Nuckolls County, Neb., along the Kansas state line. A rock memorial, overgrown by grass and weeds, rests like a tombstone under sagging football goal posts. The stone marks where the Hardy school used to be, where the wind carried voices of children -- the joyous static of tomorrow. 
 This year, Nuckolls County, population 4,843, lost another two schools, to budget cuts and declining enrollment, perhaps dooming another pair of towns to Hardy's fate in a region that has seen nearly two-thirds of its population disappear since 1920. 
But here in Superior, whose slogan is "An oasis of the Great Plains, in the middle of everywhere," and which claims to be the exact same distance from Los Angeles and New York, they have made a last stand.
From the Dakotas to the Texas Panhandle, the rural Great Plains has been losing people for 70 years, a slow demographic collapse. Without even the level of farmers and merchants that used to give these areas their pulse, many counties are also losing their very reason to exist, falling behind the rest of the nation in nearly every category as they desperately try to reinvent themselves.
And now a broad swath of the nation's midsection seems to have lost something else, as well: its optimism. Polls show a quiet crisis in confidence, the one thing that had seemed a part of rural American DNA. More than ever, people feel powerless to control their lives and pessimistic about the future, according to the annual University of Nebraska poll of rural attitudes.
"Will this be the last generation to inhabit the rural Great Plains?" asked Jon Bailey of the Center for Rural Affairs, a nonprofit research group in Walthill, Neb. Few people in Nebraska, which has 7 of the nation's 12 poorest counties, scoff at the question.
Some of the same signs of despair and breakdown that wore out aging American industrial cities in the 1960's have come to the rural plains. Among teenagers, there is now a higher level of illicit drug use in rural areas than in cities or suburbs, recent surveys indicate. The middle class is dwindling, leaving pockets of hard poverty amid large agribusinesses supported by taxpayers.
Government attention has only consolidated the trends, people in the small towns of the plains say, by subsidizing mega-farms that rarely create local jobs or contribute to merchants in the region. Arguments about the miracle of the American breadbasket -- harnessing market efficiency and technology to produce cheap food in stunning abundance -- may resound globally, but they ring hollow locally. The rueful view here is that subsidies, however sensible in the macroeconomic sense, are gutting the plains ever more.
With its population down to the 2,000 level that is often considered the threshold for a functioning regional center, Superior, the anchor of Nuckolls County, has vowed it will not catch the death chill of nearby Hardy. But the town's struggle to stay alive shows how even with the best of civic intentions, it is difficult to fight forces that have humbled much of rural America.
People here taxed themselves to create an economic development fund. They put in a fiber-optic network for telecommunications. They shored up their high school. They zoned 30 acres at the edge of town for industrial use, graded it and put in utilities. At the center of the proposed industrial park sits the empty shell of a brand new building, built with the help of $145,000 in state money, on spec. Just outside of town is a paved and well-lighted runway, although only a lone crop duster, flipped in a storm, rests upside-down on the tarmac.
They touted their small-town virtues to urban-weary prospects.
"Deer season is year-round if you drive a car," was one joke.
They spruced up some elegant old homes, a downtown historic district, and created an annual Victorian festival around a Superior native who married a British lord long ago and became nobility: Lady Vestey.
They put together a PowerPoint presentation, boasting of a union-free labor force in a town where a solid three-bedroom, two-bath home sells for less than $50,000.
"Industry could come in here and produce their products pretty cheap," said Joe Jensen, who runs the public utility and is on the economic development committee. "And with all the things going on with genetic manipulation of agriculture, we think we're pretty well positioned."
And so they wait -- for jobs, for business, for a future.
They wait -- for families with children, for people to volunteer at Little League, for a new restaurant.
They wait -- for benefits that were supposed to come with Internet commerce and a shrunken globe to drift out to the middle of everywhere.
But there are plenty of people in this town and throughout the rural plains who say all the spec buildings and cheap labor incentives are futile, misleading gestures. Hundreds of counties have followed Superior's path, and their industrial parks and new buildings sit empty.
In nearly 70 percent of the counties on the plains, there are fewer people now than there were in 1950. Population continued to plunge in the 1990's and has fallen even faster since the 2000 census.
For counties close to cities or near Interstate highways, the prospects are good, and population and jobs are generally growing. But most everywhere else -- about one-sixth of the landmass of the United States -- populations are at modern lows and the wage gaps with cities are at record highs.
"You don't have young people taking over the farms, and you don't have businesses staying," Mr. Bailey of the Center for Rural Affairs said. "Even the parents are telling the kids to get out. There is very little to keep many of these towns going."
The state and federal governments continue to put money into Superior and other diminishing towns, trying to stem a demographic force that can seem like a pull of gravity. The hospital, the town's largest single employer, is using federal loans to finance a $6 million expansion. Poor health, in the graying flatland counties, is one growth industry.
The governor has praised Superior as a model for all of dying rural Nebraska. But if they can't make it here, people say, they can't make it anywhere on the prairie.

A Thriving Economy Vanishes
Not long ago, people in this spirited town on the Republican River made things the rest of the world wanted to buy. There was a cheese factory churning out mozzarella from the milk of Nebraska cows for Pizza Hut toppings; a big cement plant at the edge of town; and dozens of small stores offering the forgotten retail art of personal service.
These operations provided good jobs and a middle class for Nuckolls County.
They are all gone. The factories are empty: too remote and not profitable enough, the owners said. The stores are dead: unable to compete after customers moved out and discount chains -- like Wal-Mart, 60 miles away, off the Interstate in Hastings -- moved in.
Over the last generation, Superior has lost two car dealers, four clothing stores, a shoe store, a drugstore, a locally managed savings and loan, a J. C. Penney store.
In Superior's autumn, another landmark is struggling to stay alive: the weekly newspaper, The Superior Express.
"Thirty years ago, when we'd go around and take pictures for the fall football issue, there were 10 high schools in the area," said Bill Blauvelt, 57, the owner and publisher. "Now there are only three. For us, this may turn out to be the worst year ever for loss of revenue."
Mr. Blauvelt, whose great-grandfather came to Nuckolls County in 1870, said he was the end of the family line. He has no children and doubts he could find a buyer for the paper. When asked about the future, he shrugged.
"I don't have plans," Mr. Blauvelt said. "This is the problem for many rural businesses -- there is no plan for the next generation. And that's the problem with Superior now, we've lost the movers and shakers, the support structure of a middle class that makes things happen."
Like most of the rural Great Plains, Nuckolls County is old, white and relatively poor. One of four households makes less than $15,000 a year, according to census figures. One of four people is older than 65. Most of the jobs are tied to farming, though the hospital is the biggest employer, with 148 workers. The county is 99 percent white.
In many ways, Nuckolls County is not unlike any other rectangle of open space in the American midsection. Over the last half-century, when the United States added 130 million people and the population grew by 86 percent, rural counties in 11 Great Plains states -- those counties without a city of at least 2,500 people -- lost more than a third of their people. The farm-based counties, and those away from interstate highways, lost the most.
In the 99 counties with the highest percentage of residents older than 85, all but two are in the Great Plains.
Two forces common to rural America have transformed Superior.
One is the collapse of the family farm and the subsequent rise of agribusiness. A hundred years ago, more than 30 percent of American workers earned their income from a farm. Now it is a little more than 1 percent. The big farms are getting richer, fattened by federal subsidies, and the small farms are disappearing.
The United States grows more food now than it did 50 years ago, on about 25 percent less acreage, and with a fraction of the workers it once used.
The other force is the Wal-Mart effect. The day a Wal-Mart comes into a midsize town, Mr. Blauvelt said, the town newspaper loses about 40 percent of its advertising revenue. But at least the paper has a fighting chance to stay in business. For local stores, it is no contest.
A recent University of Nebraska study found that in 52 rural counties in the state, the locally based share of the retail pie fell by 50 percent over the last 20 years.
The stores that do survive sell basics: gas, quick-pickup groceries, coffee. Or they find a niche, selling local crafts, say, or wine.
"With the current trends showing no sign of reversing, we will eventually be left with a lot of places without schools, stores or even government," said Dr. John C. Allen, director of the Center for Applied Rural Innovation at the University of Nebraska in Lincoln. "We will depopulate much of the Great Plains -- and it won't stop there."
Over all, the population of the Great Plains has increased since 1950: mainly in the metro areas, as the farm counties empty out. The rural counties are the ones that seem terminally ill.
But in every death there is rebirth. Some people are trickling into Superior and other prairie towns. They tend to be returning natives, nostalgic for home, looking for a life that is hard to find in the big cities.
"Our greatest asset is the psychological loyalty of people who left here," said Dr. Don Crilly, a retired vascular surgeon who returned to Superior 10 years ago from the San Francisco Bay area. He and his wife, Sylvia, moved into the biggest house in town, a plantation-style mansion that had been owned by Dr. Crilly's father.
The town welcomed them, they said. They were charmed by the easy pace, the friendships, the lack of cynicism.
Mr. Jensen, the utilities manager, also returned for social reasons. He was lonely during all the years he lived in suburban Phoenix, he said.
"I'd come home in Arizona, close the garage door behind me, get some slab of meat out of the refrigerator and go put it on the grill in a backyard enclosed by a cement wall," Mr. Jensen said. "That was my life."
But these are exceptions. The trends go the other way. Nuckolls County is projected to lose 5 percent of its population just in the next four years, state officials said. And, perhaps more surprising, most people in small-town Nebraska are not happy with where they live, the University of Nebraska poll of 3,087 people in 87 counties indicates.
Only 11 percent said they were satisfied with where they lived.
"This is a huge shift from earlier polls," said Dr. Allen, who has conducted the poll for a number of years. "In some of these rural counties, we've lost 40 percent of the 18-to-49-year-olds. This is where your entrepreneurs come from. Those are your optimists, your future."

For Young People, Few Prospects
The parking lot of the Subway sandwich shop, the only chain eatery in town, teems with high school students trolling for action.
Their biggest complaint is that Superior is boring. Amanda Thompson, a freshman, belongs to the 4-H Club and Future Farmers of America. Like her grandfather, a veterinarian, she loves animals. But she doubts she will stick around.
" I kind of want to stay here and take over my grandfather's business, but Superior is so boring," Amanda said. "There are no cute guys. Since it's such a small town, people drink a lot."
Among this group of friends, only Quentin Colwell, a senior, said he planned to stay in Superior. He has a job on a pig farm that pays $8 an hour, and that's his future, he said. "I'm stuck here," Quentin said.
The students said they thought there was a plot among the adults in town to keep young people out and maintain Superior as a retirement community. The adults say just the opposite: They are desperate for new people, especially the young.
"People live a lot longer here," Sylvia Crilly said. "Or, as the old joke goes, it just seems that way."
The students' complaints mirror rural attitudes statewide. In small towns, people are happy with their family lives, their church, their friends. But nearly 90 percent of people surveyed in rural Nebraska said they were dissatisfied with their community restaurants, stores and entertainment.
On the flip side, Superior has many things that the rest of America has lost. A full dinner of chicken-fried steak and fixings goes for $6.50. Home gardens produce beefsteak tomatoes that are two pounds and 16 inches around. The new library closes for supper, then reopens.

Lives Mired in Poverty
When Sylvia Crilly moved to Superior, she said she was surprised by the open secret of rural America.
"As an urban person who lived within blocks of the East Oakland ghettos, I have been just shocked by some of the poverty I have seen here," Ms. Crilly said. "Some of these people are just drowning."
She noted that 26 percent of children younger than 5 lived in poverty in her community. During the greatest economic boom in modern American history, the late 1990's, the income gap between city and rural workers opened wider than ever. People in rural counties of the Great Plains make 48 percent of what their metro-area counterparts make. That compares with 58 percent in 1990, according to one study.
Nebraska has the three poorest counties in the nation, with per capita income barely $6,000 in the worst one, Loup County, according to the federal Commerce Department. And the report shows even more Nebraska counties moving toward the bottom.
For these communities to survive, they will have to loosen their dependence on farming, many economists say.
If not farms, then what? Factories? The state has been helping with grants for small-town industrial parks. But companies sniff and go elsewhere, to counties with mountain views or even better tax incentives.
"You can go to any county in Nebraska and you'll see the same thing -- these empty industrial parks," said Mr. Bailey of the rural affairs center. "The idea is if you build it, they will come. But they don't come. And the state does people a real disservice by making people think they will."
A question for the majority of Americans who live in cities is why the emptying of the heartland makes a difference. Dr. Allen said the nation's character suffered when it became a one-sided country of urbanites.
"You take the center out, and you really lose something," he said.
Economists say that history -- mined for tourists -- and small companies making unique products are the future for rural America. Superior's boosters see both its isolation and history as potential assets. A winery will soon open in town, producing a taste of the middle of the country, from grapes not grown on either coast. As for history, the little town of Red Cloud, just to the west, has prospered from its claim as the home to Willa Cather. Hardy, the dying town just to the east of Superior, has nothing similar to fall back on.
"We've taken ownership of our community seriously, and we're not going to see it die," said Sherry Kniep, the economic development director of Superior.
But if this is death, it is slow, and not without surprises along the way. Mr. Jensen fell in love after returning home to Superior.
"The girl I had the big crush on in high school wouldn't give me the time of day," he said. "Then I met up with her again at our 30th reunion and -- guess what? We got married."
This series is examining the effects of rural depopulation in and around the Great Plains. 
Tomorrow, articles will explore how family ties and innovative entrepreneurs help those who stay.
An interactive feature with narration by Timothy Egan, interviews from Superior, Neb., and more photographs, is available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/rural

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Dorn and a grandson, Drew Smitz, in Superior, Neb. In a farm-based county, the town has sought new jobs, with little luck. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Alvin Bargen, 90, a farmer, at the Do Drop In in Hardy, a dying town near Superior.; Quentin Knoell, 15, sweeps up at Alexander Motors. In the last generation, Superior, Neb., has lost two car dealerships along with several retailers and a savings and loan.; Bill Blauvelt, publisher of The Superior Express, and his wife, Rita. He said he doubted he could find a buyer for the paper. (pg. A18); A rock memorial where the Hardy school used to be. Elsewhere in Nuckolls County, Superior has shored up its high school, one of several measures the small town has taken in hopes of staying alive. (Photographs by DOUG MILLS/The New York Times)(pg. A19) Chart/Map: "Moving Out of the Heartland"While the United States population has nearly doubled during the last 50 years, rural counties in the Great Plains region have seen their population decline sharply. CUMULATIVE PERCENT CHANGE IN POPULATION SINCE 1950 Graphs compare percent change in population in the Heartland and the rest of the United States since 1960. United States2000: +86% Rural Great Plains2000: -21% HOW IT COMPARES Rural Great PlainsPopulation: 1.9 millionMedian household income: $33,183Employed in agricultural industry: 14%Self-employed: 21%Race and ethnicity: White -- 87%20 to 35 years old: 14%65 or older: 18%High school diploma: 81%Bachelor's degree or higher: 16%Median home value: $67,105 Rest of the U.S.Population: 280 millionMedian household income: $43,415Employed in agricultural industry: 1%Self-employed: 10%Race and ethnicity: White -- 69%20 to 35 years old: 21%65 or older: 12%High school diploma: 80%Bachelor's degree or higher: 25%Median home value: $123,308 Note: The rural Great Plains includes 358 counties in the 12-state Great Plains region that are defined as rural by the Department of Agriculture's rural-urban continuum codes, a system that classifies counties by degree of urbanization and adjacency to metro areas. (Sources by Census Bureau; State Data Center, North Dakota State University; Department of Agriculture; Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. A18) Map of the United States highlighting the Great Plains. (pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); TRENDS (88%); SHOE STORES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); AGRICULTURE (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); AGRICULTURE CONSOLIDATION (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); BUDGET CUTS (54%) SURVEYS AND SERIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POPULATION; UNEMPLOYMENT; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEBRASKA, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) GREAT PLAINS (US); SUPERIOR (NEB); NEBRASKA

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



5 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Portland Journal; 
A City Proud of Its Underbelly Slims Down and Tones Up

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW PREUSCH 

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore. 

 BODY:
Sometimes the thinnest of veils hides the darker side of this pleasant metropolis on the banks of the Willamette River.
 In this case it is a trapdoor on NW Third Avenue. 
 Descending through the steel door on rough-hewn steps was Chuck Palahniuk, Portlander and author of several works of fiction, including "Fight Club" and "Diary."
Leading Mr. Palahniuk into the subterranean darkness was Michael Jones. 
Below ground, it is a "beautiful world of stone and brick," Mr. Jones said.
Mr. Jones, 52, has spent the better part of four decades exploring and excavating a long-forgotten system of catacombs used by Portland's prostitutes, opium addicts and crimps (the ruffians who used to force men into service at sea). He is one of the unsung eccentrics featured in "Fugitives and Refugees: A Walk in Portland, Oregon," Mr. Palahniuk's travel guide and window into the town's underbelly.
The book highlights all that is grimy and offbeat about Portland, the fringe that Mr. Palahniuk chronicles in his novels. But as he wrote in the closing section of the guide, "The trouble with the fringe is, it does tend to unravel."
And in Portland the fringe may be unraveling rather quickly. The former mill town turned growth management problem has fallen on hard times. Since March 2001 the city has lost 50,000 jobs, giving it the highest unemployment rate among American cities, 8 percent, according to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. Last year, voters of Multnomah County, which includes Portland, had to agree to a new temporary income tax for schools.
The economic descent has caused something of an identity crisis. Increasingly, Portlanders are turning from their insular ways and embracing a more cosmopolitan vision.
"People are more and more describing Portland as the largest European city in America," said Mr. Palahniuk, now aboveground at a Chinatown bar.
"It depresses me a little bit, because it seems it will be so structured and regulated that what we love about Portland won't really be there," he said.
Scott Vogel, editor of the new Portland Monthly magazine, said the city had traditionally been seen as less ambitious than its neighbor to the north, Seattle. Where Seattle had always craved the world's attention, Portland relished its quiet obscurity.
Now, Mr. Vogel said, that pattern is changing.
"On the one hand there is such a need of the populace here to take the city to the next level, and not be this second city," he said. "On the other hand, what's so special about this place seems to be bound up in the quirkiness."
The most significant change this year was in Portland's cultural institutions. Traditionally, the city's cultural strength came from its youth and included garage bands and rogue bicycle gangs. Now, Mr. Vogel said, three new cultural leaders could change all that. This year the leading ballet and opera companies and symphony brought in directors from out of town.
"There's been a real changing of the guard," Mr. Vogel said.
Christopher Stowell, 37, is part of that change. He moved here this summer to take over the Oregon Ballet Theater after 18 years as a dancer and choreographer in San Francisco.
"I think that, all ego aside, these new leaders are going to elevate things," Mr. Stowell said. "We really, really embrace this city, and we have big plans for it."
For his home Mr. Stowell chose a loft in the Pearl District. If Mr. Stowell represents the new face of Portland culture, his neighborhood is the city's version of urban chic.
Condominiums sprout like brush in a clear-cutting in the former industrial area. Auto-body shops give way to art galleries or pet boutiques, and where a Henry Weinhard's brewery used to infuse the air with a pungent, malted sweetness, residents can now buy organic groceries and expensive kitchenware.
It is a neighborhood Mr. Palahniuk barely mentions in his book, as if to rob it of legitimacy. He said the opposite had happened: Many things he mentioned have disappeared since he wrote the book, which was published in July.
"You know, everything I've touched with this book seems to be just collapsing," he said, adding, "The nature of those places is that they disappear and reappear."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The author Chuck Palahniuk at the entrance to a system of catacombs once used by the prostitutes and opium addicts of Portland. (Photo by Shane Young for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); WRITERS (77%); CITIES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); TRENDS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); PROSTITUTION (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); OPIUM (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); STATISTICS (64%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; PROSTITUTION; GUIDEBOOKS 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%)

PERSON: PREUSCH, MATTHEW; JONES, MICHAEL; PALAHNIUK, CHUCK 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (93%) OREGON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) PORTLAND (ORE)

TITLE: FUGITIVES AND REFUGEES: A WALK IN PORTLAND, ORE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



6 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Economy & Business; 
From Detroit, Big, Gutsy Cars and Wagons

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD 

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
WAIT long enough and everything comes back into fashion. For 2004, that means big rear-wheel-drive iron from the Detroit automakers.
 Over the next year, consumers will get a look at the biggest, gutsiest cars and wagons in a generation. While these automobiles might not be as long as the ocean liners that last plied the nation's highways in the 1970's, this new generation of rear-wheel-drive vehicles is bound to attract attention from drivers who have grown accustomed to sedate, almost generic, cars. 
 In a business that is essentially a fashion industry, rear-wheel-drive vehicles have been scarce for almost three decades. So the Big Three, which have always looked to the past for inspiration, are seizing on rear-wheel-drive vehicles now in hopes that their novelty will draw customers from the industry's foreign competitors. Executives are confident that the biggest drawbacks of past rear-wheel-drive cars -- namely poor fuel economy and unstable handling in poor weather -- have been overcome by the latest technology. 
Whether these vehicles will, in fact, pull customers into showrooms is another matter, for the renaissance of rear-wheel-drive cars from Detroit runs counter to where the automotive marketplace has shifted the last three decades.
For one thing, millions of Americans have grown up primarily with front-wheel-drive cars, save for the occasional sports car or luxury car. And, during the last three years, the car market in the United States has been dominated by foreign brands. They control nearly 60 percent of the market for cars and actually offer more car models than do the companies from Detroit. Detroit remains well ahead in sales of light trucks, however, with 60 percent of the market.
Front-wheel-drive cars became the vogue in the 1970's and 1980's, when gasoline prices spiked and the federal government instituted corporate average fuel economy standards, forcing automakers to improve their vehicles' gas mileage.
The first front-wheel-drive cars that many Americans drove came from Japan, where fuel economy was long a priority, with gas prices of $5 a gallon and up. Front-wheel drive -- the car is pulled forward by the two front wheels -- is a more efficient way to power a car, since the engine is closer to the front wheels. 
Front-wheel-drive vehicles, which have 60 to 70 percent of their weight over the front wheels, provide better control on ice and snow than rear-wheel-drive cars, which are propelled forward by the back wheels. With little weight over them, the back wheels tend to spin on slick surfaces.
But in the decades since, car companies have developed a variety of technologies to improve the handling and fuel economy of rear-wheel-drive cars, like stability control and all-wheel-drive systems, which can be applied to any type of vehicle and engaged in challenging driving conditions. Too, the majority of four-wheel-drive sport utility vehicles are built on a rear-wheel-drive chassis, meaning car companies can argue that consumers are already familiar with the configuration.
Their biggest selling point, however, is that the car world simply considers rear-wheel-drive vehicles to be more hip than those with front-wheel drive. 
The lineups of European luxury carmakers have always been primarily rear-wheel drive, as are a variety of Japanese luxury cars, including the LS 430, the Lexus flagship sedan. To car buffs, the advantages of rear-wheel-drive cars in speed and performance far outweigh their drawbacks.
Hands down, the most important of this new crop of rear-wheel-drive cars are the Chrysler 300C and the Dodge Magnum, which is actually a sport wagon but has a rear-wheel-drive configuration. Set to be built in Canada, the two cars are a collaboration between Chrysler and Mercedes, a result of the 1998 merger of Chrysler with Daimler-Benz to form DaimlerChrysler.
The two vehicles draw about 20 percent of their components from Mercedes, most notably a five-speed transmission offered on Mercedes cars for the last few years. Each has a strong, square-jawed appearance. 
And each will be available with Chrysler's powerful 5.7-liter, V-8 Hemi engine, which delivers 340 horsepower, making the two vehicles the highest-performance mass-market cars Chrysler has offered in years. "This is a fresh start for Chrysler," said Trevor Creed, the company's senior vice president for design.
It is also a critical juncture. Chrysler is scrambling to be profitable this year and to hold back the foreign companies' charge. In August, Toyota Motors, whose Camry is the best-selling car in the United States, passed Chrysler for the first time in American sales, to rank briefly as No.3 behind General Motors and Ford. 
"They realize it's fourth down and less than two minutes left on the clock," said Karl Brauer, the editor of Edmunds.com, a Web site that offers shopping advice to car buyers. "If they don't get a touchdown, the game is going to be over."
Despite the obstacles, Mr. Brauer said he believed that customers were willing to consider rear-wheel-drive cars from Detroit as long as they are appealing and well-packaged. As evidence, he points to the success Cadillac has had in resuscitating its image, thanks to a series of rear-wheel-drive cars, including the midsize CTS sedan, which has sold well in two years on the market, and the new XLR sports car, which is sold out at many dealerships. It recently introduced another rear-wheel drive vehicle, the SRX sport wagon.
Cadillac plans to follow these vehicles next year with an all-new version of its STS touring sedan, which will also be rear-wheel drive. Elsewhere, the rear-wheel-drive onslaught includes new versions of two 60's classics, the Pontiac G.T.O. and the Ford Mustang, which should warm some baby boomers' hearts. 
"People are more than ready to have some American success stories," Mr. Brauer said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chrysler executives show the Chrysler 300C, left, and the Dodge Magnum. (Photo by Joe Wilssens) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (62%); PRICE INCREASES (61%) AUTOMOBILES; FUEL EFFICIENCY 

ORGANIZATION: DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG 

PERSON: MAYNARD, MICHELINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



7 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Economy & Business; 
Biotech Industry Banks on Medicare Law for Help on Drug Bills

BYLINE:  By ANDREW POLLACK 

 BODY:
IN the year since Dr. Mark B. McClellan became head of the Food and Drug Administration, the biotechnology industry's complaints about how difficult it was to get drugs approved by the F.D.A. have eased. Now the industry has a new worry -- getting people to pay for its drugs after they are approved. 
 Drugs developed by biotechnology companies are among the most expensive in the world. A year's supply typically costs patients or insurance companies $10,000, and in some cases much more. Consequently, patients, insurers and Medicare often resist paying for them. 
 Sales have been lower than expected for several drugs approved in the last year, at least in part because of price resistance and difficulty in getting insurance reimbursement. These include Biogen Idec's Amevive, the first genetically engineered drug for psoriasis; Trimeris's Fuzeon, the first of a new class of drugs for AIDS; and MedImmune's FluMist, the first flu vaccine delivered as a spray in the nose rather than a shot in the arm. 
Moreover, Medicare last year changed its rules for reimbursement, lowering its payments for some drugs used for hospital outpatient treatments by an average of 35 percent, according to the Biotechnology Industry Organization, the industry's main trade group. 
The industry is banking on the Medicare bill passed by Congress last week to help it. The main point of the bill, having Medicare help the elderly pay for their drugs, is not the main issue for the biotech industry -- many biotech drugs are already covered by Medicare because they are administered by injection in the hospital or doctor's office. 
But buried in the Medicare bill is language sought by the biotech industry that would help set a floor for reimbursement of biotech drugs used for hospital outpatients. The bill also resolves some of the industry's other complaints about the rule changes made by Medicare this year. 
"It was a small issue in the context of the whole Medicare bill but a big issue for us," said Carl B. Feldbaum, president of the Biotechnology Industry Organization. 
Medicare administrators, for instance, declared Amgen's new anemia drug, Aranesp, to be "functionally equivalent" to the older drug Procrit and therefore not eligible for extra reimbursement. Medicare has since raised the amount it will pay for Aranesp. And the Medicare bill restricts Medicare from declaring drugs to be functionally equivalent in the future. 
But some analysts say the new law could also have detrimental effects for biotech drugs used in doctors' offices and kidney dialysis centers. Doctors and dialysis centers can now make money from certain drugs because their reimbursement from Medicare is greater than the price they pay, giving them an incentive to use more of the medicine. But the Medicare bill is expected to remove such incentives. 
SG Cowen said in a recent report that because of the Medicare bill, sales of Amgen's first anemia drug, Epogen, used for dialysis patients, might flatten out or dip slightly, rather than grow 5 percent a year. 
No matter what the effects of the Medicare bill, payment problems are expected to continue. When biotech drugs were rare, they did not overburden the health care system despite their high price. But such drugs are proliferating. Biotech drugs are becoming the standard treatments for rheumatoid arthritis, for instance, replacing or supplementing an inexpensive generic drug. For some problems, doctors envision using two or more biotech drugs in combination. 
"Where reimbursement is really going to be an issue is where you have two individual drugs that a physician wants to use that each costs $10,000," Joel Sendek, biotechnology analyst at Lazard, said. 
Still, he said, reimbursement problems and high prices have not slowed industry growth that much. The drugs that got off to a slow start this year have other problems, he said. 
In general the brunt of public anger over rising drug prices has been borne by the big pharmaceutical companies, which are often accused of creating me-too products and marketing them aggressively. Biotechnology companies are smaller and have generally made innovative drugs to treat unmet medical needs, arousing less ire. 
But me-too biotech drugs are coming. There are three nearly identical biotech drugs for multiple sclerosis, three similar drugs for rheumatoid arthritis and several cancer drugs in development that work in the same way. 
"The challenge for biotech companies is, the moment they start coming out with me-too drugs, they start getting a lot of the pressure the pharmaceutical companies get," Scott Morrison, United States life sciences leader for Ernst & Young, said. 
Biotechnology executives say it is becoming more important than ever to document the cost-effectiveness of their drugs. 
"You've got to have a strong value proposition that provides a clear rationale for pricing," said George Morrow, executive vice president for worldwide sales and marketing at Amgen. 
One approach is to do studies of the ways in which use of a drug might reduce hospital stays. Another is to make sure that a drug is used only by those patients it is most likely to help. 
Genentech requires doctors who want to prescribe its new asthma drug, Xolair, to fill out a statement of medical necessity for each patient and to test the patient to make sure the condition is one that can be treated by the drug. While this might reduce sales of the drug, which costs about $10,000 to $12,000 a year, it reassures insurance companies, said Myrtle Potter, Genentech's chief operating officer. 
"The industry has to do its part in making sure that their novel therapies are actually used in the most responsible way possible," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Amgen's anemia drug, Aranesp. Eunice Morris of the AARP, left, at a talk on the new Medicare bill. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (94%); MEDICARE (91%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); ANTIVIRALS (78%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (78%); HOSPITALS (76%); INSURANCE (75%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); DIALYSIS CENTERS (71%); ANEMIA (71%); DIALYSIS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (68%); PSORIASIS (68%); VACCINES (54%); INFLUENZA (53%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); LAW AND LEGISLATION; MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE AND MANAGED CARE; SALES; HOSPITALS 

COMPANY: BIOGEN IDEC INC (91%); AMGEN INC (58%); MEDIMMUNE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (93%); AARP INC (59%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY ORGANIZATION (55%)

TICKER: BIIB (NASDAQ) (91%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (91%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%)

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



8 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Economy & Business; 
Only One Life to Spend and Spend

BYLINE:  By JOE QUEENAN 

 BODY:
FOR as long as I can remember, I have thought of myself as a consumer first, a human being second. Instilled with the belief that all disposable cash must be disposed of quickly, I have long been an implacable adversary of the penny-pincher, the coupon clipper and the tightwad. In my view, buying appliances I do not need, gadgets I cannot operate, DVD's I may never watch and clothes that do not even look good on me is not only a birthright, but a sacred, patriotic duty. 
 Not all of us, however, are so willingly led to the checkout counter. My wife, for instance, makes George Washington scream. For 27 years, she and I have waged a bitter feud in the daunting arena of family finance. Born in straitened circumstances in rural England, my wife is old enough to remember the privations of Britain's postwar economy, and is ever vigilant lest rationing return. Accordingly, she spends our money on things we need -- food, shelter, clothing -- and always saves for a rainy day, or, being an Englishwoman, 365 of them. 
 Raised poor in urban America, I have spent most of my adult life engaged in some form of retroactive profligacy, casting my money to the four winds as a way of compensating for not having any money to waste as a kid. There is no appliance I will not purchase; no trip I will not take; no record club I will not join; no pair of shoes with which I will not shod myself (though there are three pairs of hiking shoes in my closet that I have never worn because I never hike). 
Bargain shopping is a particular bete noire of mine. I disdain hand-me-downs, scorn pre-owned cars, am contemptuous of going-out-of-business sales. I am the cobbler's worst nightmare. The fly in eBay's ointment. I would not purchase the "Mona Lisa," no matter what the asking price, because the "Mona Lisa" is used. 
Were it up to me, attending garage sales, tag sales and estate sales would be a capital offense. Implacably committed to the idea that this nation has spent its way to greatness and can remain great only if it spends big, I view it as my patriotic duty to keep the economy churning by laying down my credit card for new production, supporting all those people who have jobs because I buy the shiny new things that they make. 
In the next 12 months, I will buy a new television set for my den, complete with surround sound, and will almost certainly purchase a luxury model car to replace my vintage Mercedes, even though I do not need any car as I walk to work, do not have much of a cut to my jib, and never go anywhere. I will also purchase an overpriced Burberry suit, even though freelance satirists need to get dressed up only two or three times a year, usually for other satirists' funerals, and rarely get invited anywhere. But it will look good hanging in my closet.
I will also purchase whatever new gadget for downloading music comes onto the market, even though I already own 2,000 records and CD's and half a dozen devices to play them. I do not make these purchases because I need them; I make them because my country needs them. 
My spending will not end there. While it is true that I use my iMac only for word processing, and that computers made in 1996 would be more than adequate for my meager needs, there is no Apple upgrade that I will not embrace joyously. Although I was more than happy with the Jaguar operating system, I will now move on to the Panther upgrade -- and, when the time comes, the Lynx, the Puma, the Catamount, the Nittany Lion, the Leopard, the Cheetah and, yes, even the Siberian Tiger. They cost only about $150, but to me it is the symbolic value that matters. A society where iMac users suddenly declare that they are more than happy with Panther is tantamount to a society that says it is more than happy with the Previa and doesn't need the Siena, which, after all, has automatic sliding doors. I do not wish to live in such a society. 
It is often said that the Roman Empire collapsed because of the barbarian invasions, but I suspect it collapsed because ordinary citizens started making do with last year's togas and rejected the latest designs of lares and penates. This caused a disastrous slowdown in the manufacturing sector, resulting in huge layoffs in the garment and household deity industry and prompting a catastrophic decline in available investment capital. The next thing you knew, Attila the Hun was at the door. I cannot explain all the nuances of this theory, but I imagine Treasury Secretary John W. Snow could. The only way to fight your way out of a recession is to spend your way out of a recession.
IN saying all this, let me make it clear that I do not spend money I do not have and do not carry enormous credit card debt. Subconsciously, I believe, I married my cautious English wife because all the money she has saved by buying hugely marked-down furniture and off-brand loose tea has freed up tens of thousands of dollars I can fritter away on powerful stereo amplifiers, ornate speakers, musical instruments I will never master (I own vintage Guilds, Martins and Gibsons but can barely strum "Oh! Susannah") and director's cuts of Jet Li movies made by directors neither I nor anyone else has ever heard of. Her frugality has had the salutary effect of offsetting my jingoistic extravagance, but not to the extent that it has damaged the American economy.
I concede that in households where both husband and wife share my philosophy, the results can be disastrous. But that is not my concern. True, my lifelong philosophy of tempered improvidence has filled my house with things I do not need. But if I have failed as an adult, I have succeeded as a consumer. As I never tire of telling my wife -- usually while I am swearing at a new appliance whose owner's manual I cannot decipher -- it is only people like me who stand between America and the economic abyss. I feel certain that George Bush is pleased with this arrangement. As for my wife, she's relieved that I'm buying only one new car.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Edward Koren) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); RETAIL COUPONS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (50%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

PERSON: QUEENAN, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (56%); UNITED KINGDOM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



9 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Technology & Media; 
In Fight Between Cable and Satellite, Customers Gain an Edge

BYLINE:  By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
AS cable operators and satellite companies vie for customers next year, consumers could be the beneficiaries. 
 Late last month, the Cablevision Systems Corporation announced that it was raising its fees for expanded basic cable by 3.2 percent, but that is the smallest increase in 15 years, a company spokesman said. 
 Meanwhile, the Echostar Communications Corporation, a satellite dish company based in Littleton, Colo., is attempting to lure customers by, in essence, providing the necessary equipment free to customers who commit to buying a minimum of one year's programming. The customer pays $49.99 for a package that includes the satellite dish, a three-room service system and a digital video recorder. Then the company gives a credit of $49.99 toward the first month's bill. 
The company has signed nearly one million new customers this year. "It has been good," said Thomas Watts, who follows cable and satellite for SG Cowen Securities. 
That is good news for customers of the industry's basic and expanded basic packages. "They are getting more and more aggressive," said Matthew Harrigan, who follows satellite and cable for Janco Partners. 
Now that 90 million of the nation's 106 million television homes have either satellite or cable service or both, there is little opportunity to expand by adding customers. "The video business has basically topped out," Mr. Harrigan said, "and it has become a market share battle." 
A possible slowdown in price increases comes after a period in which the cable industry raised its rates far faster than inflation: since 1997, cable rates have risen 40 percent, to $36.47 on average for expanded basic, more than triple the 12 percent increase in the consumer price index in the period. 
The industry is healthier today than it was five years ago. It is also coming to the end of heavy capital investments to upgrade its cable systems and can offer newer services to customers. For example, 15 million homes now buy high-speed Internet access from cable companies, according to the National CableTelevision Association. Cable companies are also promoting additional services like digital television and movies on demand.
Cable operators are counting on the growth of these added services to offset a slowdown in rate increases for expanded basic service. Several experts said that the average cable customer who subscribes simply to expanded basic cable services pays about $39. But most customers want additional services, like movie or sports channels, and as a result spends a total of over $60 a month on average for video services. Those who have a cable modem and get Internet service from their cable company pay an additional $39 a month on average, Mr. Watts said. 
Cable companies, which face little competition from rival cable companies in many markets, have a great deal of leverage in pricing and are eager to expand their universe of high-speed Internet customers because that business has a higher margin than the video business. 
They are determined to make the service as attractive as possible. For example, cable customers who buy both the video package and high-speed Internet access pay somewhat less for Internet access than customers who buy only Internet service. 
Some sports fans subscribe to DirecTV, a satellite service operated by Hughes Electronics Corporation, a General Motors subsidiary, in preference to cable because it has a contract to carry a Sunday Night Football package, as well as a variety of other sports packages. But cable customers who switch, but want to continue getting high-speed Internet access from their cable provider, will find themselves paying a higher fee for it. Mr. Watts said broadband access alone, without video service, would cost about $49 a month from a cable provider. 
High-speed D.S.L. lines from phone companies like Verizon and AT&T offer an alternative for high-speed Internet service. But given the public's intensifying appetite for new services like high-speed Internet access over their cable lines, customers are likely to see their bills going up, even as they get a price break on some services. 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 15, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Outlook issue of Business Day on Dec. 1 about the competition between cable and satellite television operators misstated the name of a sports package offered by DirecTV. It is NFL Sunday Ticket, not Sunday Night Football.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE INDUSTRY (91%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); BROADBAND (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (85%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (71%); CD & DVD DRIVES (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (69%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (69%); MODEMS (61%) TELEVISION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SATELLITES 

COMPANY: DISH NETWORK CORP (91%); CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORP (91%)

TICKER: DISH (NASDAQ) (91%); CVC (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (91%) SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TV SERVICES; 

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



10 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: International Business; 
As Britain Chugs Along, Its European Neighbors Lag

BYLINE:  By ERIC PFANNER, International Herald Tribune 

DATELINE: London 

 BODY:
ON Sunday afternoons along the Kurfurstendamm in Berlin or the Rue du Faubourg St.-Honore in Paris, the stores are closed, the sidewalks nearly deserted. But in London, the crowds along Oxford Street grow thicker. Shoppers stream from department stores to specialty shops, adding a sweater here, a CD there, enjoying their favorite weekend diversion. 
 The contrasting scenes along Britain's "high streets" and the main retail stretches of Continental cities reflect a sharply divergent economic story: The British economy is chugging along, as it has through the last three years of global ups and downs, while the economy of the euro zone, the 12 countries sharing a single currency, is struggling to break out of a rut. While consumers in most European countries are keeping a firm grip on their euros, satisfied to observe the laws on the Continent that keep most stores closed on Sunday, Britons are parting with their pounds every day of the week. 
 That difference also explains why, as the global economy improves, Britain could be unusually vulnerable over the coming year, even as some analysts suggest the euro zone finally has a chance to claw back from three years of near-recession. British consumers, weighed down by debt and facing an increase in borrowing costs, may be spent out, while their Continental counterparts are able -- if not willing -- to step up. 
"In the U.K., consumption has been strong, perhaps even too strong," said Lorenzo Codogno, an economist at Bank of America . "For the euro zone, it's fair to say that on the whole, the picture has been dismal." 
In November, the Bank of England became the first of the world's major central banks to raise borrowing costs in more than three years, because of concern about surging home prices and a rapid buildup of consumer debt. At 3.75 percent, the base interest rate in Britain is now nearly double the comparable rate in the euro zone and nearly four times the American equivalent. 
Analysts say additional rate increases are likely as the Bank of England tries to slow a spending boom that has driven consumer debt up to more than $:900 billion ($1.5 trillion), with record increases in several recent months. Because a majority of British homeowners have variable-rate mortgages, rather than the fixed-rate variety more popular on the Continent and in the United States, higher rates could affect them quickly. 
"I think the consumer will be hit quite hard," said Richard Iley, an economist at BNP Paribas in London. He estimates that the growth of consumer spending next year will be only half its current annual rate of nearly 3 percent. 
Although some analysts say consumers and the economy should be able to withstand the higher rates, there are signs that Britons are becoming overstretched. The Department of Trade and Industry said that in the third quarter, 9,094 people were declared insolvent, the equivalent of filing for bankruptcy, a 17 percent increase from a year earlier, and the highest level in a decade. 
With housing prices rising at double-digit percentages, many consumers have financed their splurges by tapping home equity. After several years of growing at 20 percent plus, prices slowed early this year, but then picked up again in the last few months, contributing to the Bank of England's rate decision. Over the last year, mortgage equity withdrawals as a percentage of after-tax income have been running at the highest levels since 1988. Shortly after the peak that year, a steep tumble in home prices set off a recession. 
But the reasons for Britons' spendthrift ways, in contrast to their tightfisted Continental counterparts, seem to run deeper than money. It is a lot easier, and arguably more enjoyable, to part with your cash in Britain. 
Many British shops are open on Sundays, unlike the euro zone, where they are generally required to stay shut, despite some recent easing. While the customer may not always be right, American-style, in Britain he or she at least gets the benefit of the doubt some of the time; in France or Germany, surly or indifferent service is still common, particularly in department stores. 
British retailers like Selfridges, the landmark London department store, draw in customers with sleek design, careful brand presentation and slick promotions. This year, it ran a "Body Craze" event, ostensibly to celebrate ways to decorate the body but also conveniently providing a way to send naked models up and down the escalators. Even the more conservative Marks & Spencer is catching on, with racy photos in its window displays, accompanied by quotations from the Kama Sutra, the Hindu encyclopedia of erotica. 
In Germany, which accounts for about a third of the euro zone's economy, the retail scene remains more sedate. And shopkeepers are pessimistic about an immediate upturn in consumer spending, despite a sharp rise in business and investor confidence in recent months. A survey conducted in September for the Federation of German Retailers showed that 37 percent expected sales to decrease, while only 24 percent saw gains. 
"I'm surprised to see there's this much optimism among business leaders, when there aren't that many good reasons for it," said Michael Dicks, an economist at Lehman Brothers. 
With the economic future uncertain, Germans are loath to borrow and are stepping up their savings. After falling to less than 10 percent of income in 2000 from nearly 20 percent about two decades ago, the savings rate has crept up again to just above 10 percent. 
Analysts say Germans and other European consumers may be worried about changes in state pension systems, which can no longer afford the comfortable payouts of the past. The governments of France and Austria this year pushed through cuts in future pension obligations, overcoming stiff resistance from labor unions, and other countries are trying to do the same. 
But in Germany, economists say, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's economic agenda also provides a ray of hope as policy makers try to get consumers to spend again. The government agreed this year to allow stores to stay open four hours later on Saturdays, until 8 p.m. It also allowed increased hiring of part-time workers, and unemployment, although high by American standards, has remained relatively steady. 
Now Mr. Schroder is negotiating with the opposition on proposals to reduce jobless benefits, which could hurt consumer spending. But the government wants to balance the pain by bringing forward to Jan. 1 substantial tax cuts that are scheduled to begin a year later. 
For years, Germany has been seen as the economic "sick man" of Europe, but some analysts say the government's proposals, if they succeed, could help restore health. They are worried, however, about a lingering slowdown in other countries, particularly France, where consumer spending has slowed. 
Among the reasons, economists say, is that hourly workers may have less to spend than they had in the past, a result of a gradual reduction in the workweek over several years, to 35 hours. An extreme summer heat wave also hurt sales, as did differences between Paris and Washington over the war in Iraq. American visitors, normally big customers at some Paris department stores, stayed away. Even so, other analysts say the slowdown may be only temporary. And in France, too, the government plans to cut taxes. 
"Does this mean we are going to have a boom in spending" across the euro zone? Mr. Codogno asked. "Of course not. But 2004 should at least look better than 2003."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 5, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, two charts on Monday in the special Outlook issue of Business Day -- one showing the number of cellphone and fixed-line subscribers in China and the other showing central bank interest rates for Britain, the European Union and the United States -- carried incorrect scales. Corrected versions appear today, on Page C4.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Turning Point?"Last month, the Bank of England raised its benchmark rate, making it the first of the worlds major central banks to increase rates in more than three years. Graph tracks the central bank interest rates for Britain, the United States and the European Union since 2001. (Source by Federal Reserve; European Central Bank; Bank of England)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); CONSUMER LENDING (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (85%); RETAILERS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); RECESSION (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); CURRENCIES (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%); HOMEOWNERS (67%); CONSUMER SPENDING (66%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (65%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); HOME PRICES (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; SAVINGS 

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

PERSON: PFANNER, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (92%) GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE; GERMANY; 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



11 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: International Business; 
Japan Builds a Recovery on the Boom or Bust of Exports

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: YOKOHAMA, Japan 

 BODY:
TAMAKO SUSATO is one of the lucky ones. Her husband, Ichiro, works for an American bank, and their twin 7-year-old daughters, starting elementary school, are in good health. With their savings, they plan to buy a house in the upscale Bunkyo area of Tokyo.
 Even so, times are not easy in Japan. Retail prices are falling, but companies are cutting salaries. Costs for health care and education are rising, and the pension system is on shaky ground. Closer to home, many of the Susatos' friends have lost their jobs, and when they find work, it is often for half the pay. 
 "It scares me, and sometimes I imagine that could happen to my husband," said Mrs. Susato, who works twice a week at a translation company to help pay for their daughters' schooling.
The Susatos' fears are shared by people throughout Japan. They also help explain why improvement in the nation's $4.5 trillion economy remains reliant almost entirely on growth in exports and corporate investment, not on consumer spending, even though consumer spending makes up 55 percent of the economy. 
This has been the case throughout the current two-year-old recovery, the longest in six years. In the third quarter, exports and capital spending rose at annual rates of more than 11 percent each, while consumer spending and government investment were largely unchanged.
For now, the imbalance is benign. Because of strong demand for Japanese autos, electronics and machinery overseas, the recovery is expected to gather momentum in 2004. The Bank of Japan predicts that the economy will grow 2.5 percent next year, a slightly more optimistic forecast than those made by private industry and about as fast as growth this year.
But because so many consumers like the Susatos are concerned about the future and remain tentative about shopping, Japan's recovery cannot strengthen enough to break its ties to the boom-and-bust cycles of world trade. Without a robust Japanese economy, the onus will remain on the United States, China and others to drive global growth.
"The lack of consumer spending makes for lopsided growth," said Paul Sheard, an economist at Lehman Brothers in Tokyo. "What would happen if the U.S. economy runs out of steam? It would be catastrophic for Japan."
Typically, to stimulate an economy, a government would enact tax cuts, deregulation and other measures intended to buoy consumer spending. But Japan's leaders, dealing with the industrialized world's most onerous debt load, are bent on doing the opposite: cutting public spending, raising taxes, and reducing retirement and health benefits.
With the burden on consumers growing, it is no wonder that personal spending has floundered. Department store sales have fallen for 18 months. Even when Japanese splurge, they are cost-conscious. Since 1993, new-car sales have grown 5.8 percent while used-car sales have jumped 25.8 percent. New-home sales have slipped, as Japanese have refurbished existing homes.
To make up for their lost income, consumers are using their savings to maintain their lifestyles. From 1990 to 2001, Japan's savings rate dropped by half, to 6.9 percent of income, and economists expect it to keep falling.
"Who can think of saving money?" Mrs. Susato said. "You have to live first." Even if wages start to rise, economists say, consumers are likely to rebuild their savings rather than spend the additional income.
"It's crystal clear that Japanese households cannot become like American consumers," said Akio Yoshino, a fund manager at SG Yamaichi Asset Management. "We cannot become extravagant spenders unless the government ensures that the pension system is safe."
Although the government was unable to goad consumers to spend more through tax cuts in previous years, there are some encouraging signs. Bonuses, which typically make up about 10 percent of workers' annual pay, rose for the first time in three years last summer, even though salaries are still falling. The jobless rate, though stubbornly high at 5.2 percent in October, has fallen from record levels of 5.5 percent in January. Stock prices have risen 33 percent since the end of April..
So it is no surprise that consumer confidence rose to its highest level in two years in the last quarter. But that confidence could evaporate if exports slow and drag down production, corporate profits and, ultimately, wages and jobs. . 
Consumers could also be jolted if there is another bank collapse. The most recent was a 1.96 trillion yen ($18 billion) bailout of the nation's fifth-largest lender, Resona Holdings, in May. Japan's banks still hold 44 trillion yen ($400 billion) in nonperforming loans, and consumers have been wary of putting their money in shaky financial institutions. For now, the government guarantees in full all deposits in ordinary savings accounts. Starting in 2005 the coverage will be limited to the first 10 million yen ($91,000) in an account at a bank.
Prime Minister Junichi Koizumi could nudge the economy by deregulating industries and scrapping subsidies that make Japan one of the world's most expensive countries. The opening of the cellphone market, for example, brought prices down and led to a surge in handset sales.
The government, however, appears fearful of alienating powerful interest groups like farmers and transportation companies. Efforts to privatize public institutions like the post office will take years and will not lift growth for years to come.
Consequently, Japan's consumers must fend for themselves and policy makers must continue depending on China, the United States and other markets for growth.
"Consumers are still too cautious to spend aggressively, so exports will remain the main driver of the economy in 2004," said Mamoru Yamazaki, chief economist at Barclays Capital in Tokyo.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tamako Susato worried about declining salaries and rising expenses. (Photo by Ko Sasaki for The New York Times) Graph: "Saving Less"Despite declining prices, Japanese consumers are saving less in the face of higher health care and education costs and falling salaries. Graph tracks the annual Japanese household savings rate since 1960. (Source by Economic and Social Research Institute, Japan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); TRENDS (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); RETAILERS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); TAX INCREASES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); DEPARTMENT STORES (71%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); TAX LAW (60%) CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) KANTO, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



12 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY & MEDIA: NEW ECONOMY; 
Markets Shaped by Consumers

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
THAT consumers shape markets is a truism, but their influence is probably understated and certainly not fully understood. Eric von Hippel, a professor at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, argues that a huge swath of innovation can be traced to elite consumers whom he calls lead users. These imaginative and technically adept consumers spot a need and invent a solution, often changing whole industries, from sports to software.
 Mr. Von Hippel and his graduate students have compiled a series of case studies that fit his model of user innovation. Mountain biking, for example, began in the early 1970's when cyclists wanted to abandon paved roads for rough terrain. At the time, commercial bikes were not up to the task, so cyclists took heavy old bike frames with balloon tires and bolted on motorcycle-type lever-operated brakes for surer stops when careering down mountain trails. The industry spotted the trend, and mountain bike sales now account for more than half of the bike market in the United States. 
 "Needs emerge, and users scrounge around and find something," Mr. Von Hippel said, "or tools and technologies emerge, and people figure out how to use them."
The evolution of short-text messaging on cellphones is an example of consumers putting technology to an unforeseen use. Telecommunications engineers in Europe began using short-text messaging in the early 1990's to alert their peers to network problems. Later, carriers tried to market the text-sending ability to businesses as a substitute for pagers. It never caught on. 
But the market exploded when teenagers in Europe and East Asia got cellphones. Today, the value proposition, as they say, is simple. "If you are a teenager in Europe, you can't have a social life without cellphone text messaging," said Nick Jones, an analyst for Gartner Inc. in London who has a 19-year-old daughter.
So how are consumers shaping technology markets? In all sorts of ways, of course, but two markets that seem particularly intriguing are cellphones and the emerging field of social-network software.
The cellphone frontiers are in East Asia and Western Europe; both lead the United States in mobile phone use. One new messaging technique is called blue-jacking, which requires a cellphone equipped with Bluetooth, a short-range wireless format. In personal computers, Bluetooth enables equipment like wireless mice and keyboards to communicate with the computer. Cellphone makers had assumed customers would use Bluetooth to share data between their phones and computers. But consumers have found another use for blue-jacking -- sending brief text messages to other people with Bluetooth cellphones up to about 20 feet away, in restaurants, stores or classrooms.
In Europe and Asia, cellphones with tiny cameras have become popular -- so common and widely used that privacy concerns have been raised. Last month, the South Korean government announced that it would require domestic makers like Samsung and LG Electronics to modify their cellphones so that they emit a beep or a few words of warning when a photo is taken. The government action was prompted by clandestine photos being taken -- in a public bath -- and then posted on Web sites. 
Some European companies have discussed banning camera-equipped phones at work. But analysts said that such a step would be short-lived at best because within a few years, it will be difficult to buy cellphones without cameras. Privacy issues, it seems, are not slowing the spread of this technology.
"It makes it possible to share personal moments, quickly and easily," said Eric Engstrom, chief executive of Wildseed, a start-up in Kirkland, Wash., that makes personalization software for cellphones. "These pictures are like multimedia short-text messaging. They are disposable images, not like home movies of your kids."
Markets, it is said, are a conversation -- producers, consumers and others have a voice. And consumers are using technology to change the conversation.
Signs of the shift abound. An example is the rise of Weblogs, or blogs, which are essentially online bulletin boards for discussion and polemics on any subject the blog owner deems worthwhile. Political blogs are the best known, but other blogs focus on industries and products. And influential blogs can shape market perceptions. 
Social-network software links sort and sift information on the Web to find what is most pertinent or helpful to a person or a company. Social-network applications use search technology, referrals and rankings much like Google and Amazon.com, but usually for narrower objectives -- or at least that is the focus of the early wave of social-network start-ups. A new service called LinkedIn (www.linkedin.com) uses referral networks to connect companies with job seekers.
Friendster (friendster.com) is a social-networking service for young people that has signed up more than two million members since March. Members create profiles -- with personal information, backgrounds and interests -- and then identify friends who have signed up for Friendster. They then search the profiles of friends and friends-of-friends who are somehow linked. Visible Path (www.visiblepath.com) uses linking, referral and relationship tracking over the Internet to help businesses find sales leads in other companies.
At the Almaden Research Center of I.B.M. in San Jose, Calif., researchers regard social-network technology as one aspect of what they term "relationship-oriented computing." Its prototype project in the field is Web Fountain, a large supercomputer that digests most Web pages and other online information. 
Using search, business intelligence and text analytics technology, I.B.M. researchers can look for trends, buzz and hints of shifting consumer attitudes as evident from Web postings. I.B.M. hopes to sell this market intelligence as a service to companies.
"It's the collective I.Q. of the Internet coming to your aid," said James C. Spohrer, director for services research at Almaden.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mountain bikers knew what they needed. (Photo by John W. Wheeler for The New York Times); French students and their cellphones. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXT MESSAGING (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (84%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (76%); EXTREME SPORTS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (76%); CASE STUDIES (75%); ENGINEERING (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); CYCLING (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (65%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (65%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (64%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (61%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); COMPUTER POINTING DEVICES (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

COMPANY: GARTNER INC (64%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%)

TICKER: IT (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (64%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (64%)

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) EUROPE (94%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN ASIA (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



13 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Outlook; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Economy & Business; 
Energy Efficiency Could Gain Favor

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
ENERGY experts anticipate that 2004, like every year before it, will be remarkable for how much energy Americans waste. But if energy prices climb as high as predicted, consumers are likely to pay more attention than usual to the opportunities to be more efficient, and retailers expect the results to show up at cash registers.
 "We've planned for a rush to these types of products this winter," said Craig Menear, senior vice president for merchandising at Home Depot, which recently published a catalog highlighting energy-efficient products. 
 To understand the challenges facing energy-efficiency advocates, though, consider lighting. Sales of energy-efficient compact fluorescent lights are the fastest-growing segment of the market. But even in states like Wisconsin, where utilities have subsidized purchases of energy-efficient lighting for more than a decade, cheap incandescent bulbs outsell the newer technology by a four-to-one margin. 
The Energy Department estimates that if every American homeowner simply replaced the incandescent lighting in his or her five most frequently used fixtures with compact fluorescents, the nation would save 800 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity consumption -- the equivalent of shutting down 21 power plants. The cost of fluorescent bulbs is typically 8 to 10 times that of incandescents, but that initial outlay would be offset over time by their much longer life and by lower electricity bills. (As an added benefit, the Energy Department estimates, utilities would emit one trillion fewer pounds of the types of gases that contribute to global warming.)
While earlier generations of the bulbs did not fit inside many lighting fixtures, the newest designs are no bigger than the average incandescent bulb, and the industry has improved quality as well. 
But no one is betting that the American lifestyle will change anytime soon to capture the potential savings. For one thing, if all households made the change, it would take about 500 million fluorescent bulbs to meet the department's goal. While manufacturers have been expanding their capacity, the total annual production capacity at the moment for such lighting is probably not much more than 55 million bulbs, according to Steve Goldmacher, a spokesman for Philips Lighting USA. 
According to energy experts, lighting is just one of many fields where engineers and designers are inventing energy-efficient products faster than the products are being widely embraced. Sometimes the best-in-class technologies roll out slowly because of manufacturers; Toyota , for instance, has taken a cautious approach to expanding production and marketing for its sold-out Prius, a hybrid gasoline and electric car with a fuel efficiency that far surpasses that of anything Detroit has offered.
Next year will be the first year that all Toyota dealers in the United States can sell the Prius. While company officials here hope that shipments from Japan will rise to 36,000 from 20,000, American dealers will still not be able to get as many as they want, said Wade Hoyt, a spokesman for Toyota Motor Sales USA. Supplies are expected to be tighter for the first hybrid sport utility vehicle, a Lexus model that Toyota expects to begin importing next fall.
More often, though, the restraints lie with consumers. Most are reluctant to spend the money to replace inefficient equipment, like older air- conditioners or furnaces, with new designs until the old equipment breaks down, even when told that the new unit will pay for itself in savings within a few years. 
Still, 2004 could be a relatively strong year for many energy-efficient products. Energy futures markets project high prices this winter for the fuels used to heat homes and run cars, as well as higher electricity prices. When prices jump, so does interest in efficiency.
"I would expect a lot more consumer interest in ways to cut their bills," said Steven Nadel, executive director of the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, a Washington-based clearinghouse. "There could also be more political interest."
The latter could lead to increases in the tax credits, rebate programs and other government subsidies that often play an important role in drawing business and consumer attention to energy-efficient products. State-mandated programs that were run through regulated utilities provided more than $3 billion in subsidies to customers in more than 30 states a decade ago, but many were cut back or eliminated as the power industry deregulated, according to Marc Hoffman, executive director of the Consortium for Energy Efficiency, a nonprofit group in Boston.
Mr. Hoffman said that total spending on such programs dropped as low as $500 million but has now climbed back above $1 billion. The state programs frequently build on the federal Environmental Protection Agency's Energy Star rating program, which began by setting standards for energy-efficient computer screens in 1992. Energy Star standards are now available for 40 different home and office products.
In the coming year, the E.P.A. and a number of states will be pushing to extend the Energy Star concept beyond individual products to issues like how home design and insulation interact to affect energy use.
"The typical home has enough cracks in it that it's like having a window open all the time," said Kathleen Hogan, director of the E.P.A.'s Climate Protection Partnerships division, which oversees Energy Star.
SOME builders see a growing demand for energy-efficient homes. Veridian Homes in Madison, Wis., which built a prototype home using Energy Star and other environmental standards last year with the help of money from the Energy Department, has used the findings from that research "across the board," Jeff Simon, Veridian's vice president for operations, said. 
In 2004, the company plans to build 640 such homes in and around Madison, as well as a solar-powered model home that would generate as much energy as it uses.
Zero-energy housing is also on the agenda in Austin, Tex., where Austin Energy, the city-owned power company, has become an industry leader in supporting efficiency programs.
"There's always a new field to be mined," said Roger Duncan, vice president for government relations, energy and environmental policy, citing the research of Amory Lovins. Mr. Lovins has argued since the early 1980's that thanks to technology, energy efficiency is an expanding resource with constantly improving returns on investment.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Efficient Alternatives"Consumers can buy an array of energy-efficient products for their homes, and their energy savings will eventually offset the costs. PRODUCT: Compact flourescent lightbulbsINITIAL COST: $3-$15ENERGY SAVINGS: About 70%YEARS UNTIL PAYBACK: 1-3 years PRODUCT: Duct sealing to prevent leakage or infiltrationINITIAL COST: $650-$1,100ENERGY SAVINGS: 15-25%YEARS UNTIL PAYBACK: 4-10 years PRODUCT: Wall insulation (for uninsulated homes)INITIAL COST: $1/ sq. footENERGY SAVINGS: 27% less heat lostYEARS UNTIL PAYBACK: 4-6 years in Northern states PRODUCT: High-efficiency clothes washerINITIAL COST: $150-$600*ENERGY SAVINGS: 50%YEARS UNTIL PAYBACK: 2 1/2-10 years PRODUCT: High-efficiency furnacesINITIAL COST: $400*ENERGY SAVINGS: 13%YEARS UNTIL PAYBACK: About 5 years in Northern states *Incremental cost over a standard product. (Source by American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (94%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); POWER PLANTS (79%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (79%); UTILITY RATES (79%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (79%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (79%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (77%); RETAILERS (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); PLANT CAPACITY (71%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (66%); GLOBAL WARMING (64%); NEW CAR DEALERS (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (60%) ENERGY AND POWER; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; ENERGY EFFICIENCY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



14 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Technology & Media; 
Newsstands Beckon the Ink-Stained Entrepreneur

BYLINE:  By DAVID CARR 

 BODY:
INDEPENDENT magazine publishers lack the distribution, bundled ad sales and marketing muscles of major media companies, but they seem to possess one thing the behemoths do not: courage.
 Major publishers have been gun-shy about pushing out new titles during a punishing recession in print advertising. In the last year, Hearst Magazines christened Lifetime, but the magazine really just puts an already viable broadcast brand into print. Time Inc., reeling from the effects of the America Online merger and struggling to meet revenue objectives, did not bring out any new titles in the last year. While Conde Nast extended the Vogue name with a new teenage publication, the company did not produce any stand-alone new products. 
 But even as the big boys sit it out, new magazines are being born at the rate of more than two a day. In 2004, approximately 900 magazines will begin publishing, and the vast majority of them will come from lone entrepreneurs, said Samir Husni, a professor of journalism at the University of Mississippi who tracks new magazines. Most of the entrepreneurs will go away heartbroken and broke, he said, but a lucky few will hit the jackpot, and their magazines will find an audience and advertisers.
Jane Goldman expects to be among them. A veteran of the once hugely successful Industry Standard, a magazine that imploded along with the digital economy, she has turned her attention to a less trendy topic: food. Sometime near the end of 2004, Ms. Goldman, along with several San Francisco-based publishing veterans, expects to publish Chow, a food magazine that tries to reach a younger audience than epicurean titles like Gourmet and Bon Appetit. Raising the $6 million it will take to get the project going has been a challenge.
"It is not as bad as it was a year ago," Ms. Goldman said of fund-raising. "But this is a big investment that is not going to pay off for a number of years. People are afraid of the magazine business, the same way they are afraid of restaurants, because most fail. But if you have the right concept, it can take off."
Dr. Husni said that 2003 was far busier than the previous year in terms of new titles and that he expected plenty of new activity in 2004, most of it coming from independent operators. The "indies" are popping up in all sorts of categories: Tracks, a music magazine for older adults, recently made its debut; Dwell, a San Francisco shelter magazine, is doing very well; and South, a regional magazine for people living in the Southeast, is in its nascent stages.
"It definitely has been a lot busier," Dr. Husni said. "Independents focus on the passion, not the statistics, and can launch magazines with a lot smaller circulation."
Even the most lovingly conceived magazine project can quickly end up at the pulp factory, but there are still amazing, even improbable, success stories.
J. Mignonne Wright was convinced that the time was right for a magazine built on a particularly American brand of uplift. While working on her concept in Memphis, she heard from many industry veterans that she would never get a distributor for her dream project and that she should not even think of trying to go directly to retailers. 
Nevertheless, late in 2002 she and her partners called up Wal-Mart Stores, the largest single retailer of magazines in the country, which is based in Bentonville, Ark. "Bentonville is close to Memphis, so we thought we'd give it a shot," she recalled. She told an executive at Wal-Mart that she had an idea, American Magazine, that she felt would be a good fit with Wal-Mart. She asked if the executive had time to meet the next day to discuss selling the magazine. The Wal-Mart executive said yes, so Ms. Wright packed up her car and drove five hours to Wal-Mart's headquarters.
"We had seven sheets of paper, more or less a mocked-up media kit, but that was it," she recalled. "They said yes and told us to be ready by Christmas."
After that bolt of lightning and two test issues distributed only at Wal-Mart, Ms. Wright's updated bimonthly version of the Saturday Evening Post is now being nationally distributed to the tune of 100,000 copies. "Where else on earth could you walk into the largest retailer in the world and have them say, 'Show us what you've got'?" she said.
Donald E. Welsh has watched as Budget Living, a magazine he conceived and then rounded up the financing to start it, experienced explosive success in the last year.
"This is still one of the last great entrepreneurial opportunities there is," he said. "You can take a concept, work on it in your attic or your garage, and, if the readers are interested in it, for very little money invested, you can have a huge hit. The widget business requires gigantic assets. Magazines require people and a great idea."
That does not mean success is just a hot concept away. Earlier this year, Radar, a witty, well-executed take on celebrity, put out two issues and waited for investors to respond. They never did, and the magazine is on hiatus. But some independent magazines, after limping from one issue to the next, eventually find their market catching up to them.
Bradford Fayfield, a former Olympic skier and the founder and owner of Freeskier magazine, cobbled together a few issues for each of the last five years. But the magazine, which is aimed at younger skiers who are more than happy to drop into a half-pipe, seems to be finding an audience from its berth in Boulder, Colo., and has doubled its number of advertising pages over the last year. It has a growing national circulation, now at 75,000, and publishes five issues a year, all during the ski season.
"Me and the guys around here knew the athletes, knew the technology, knew the manufacturers and knew the resorts," Mr. Fayfield said. "What we needed to learn was publishing. We were extraordinarily naive, but I think we've learned how to get a quality product in front of our audience."

GRAPHIC: Photo: December 2003 issues of three new magazines that have found their readers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (92%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (91%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSSTANDS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); YOUTH MARKET (78%); MERGERS (76%); FUNDRAISING (72%); RESTAURANTS (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%); PULP MILLS (50%); PULP INDUSTRY (50%) MAGAZINES; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: TIME INC (91%); HEARST CORP (84%); AOL INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (55%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: CARR, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



15 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: PENDING; 
Europe's Union to Grow by 10

 BODY:
 On May 1, 2004, the European Union officially expands to 25 members, adding 10 countries in Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean -- the Czech Republic, Cyprus, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia. In one broad sweep, the union will grow to 450 million people and an economy rivaling the United States in size. 
There are predictions of chaos. Decision-making, not exactly easy even among the core countries of what has been called old Europe, will get more cumbersome. A flood of migrants could swamp the sluggish Western European job markets. But there is also optimism. The low wages of the East may force countries like Germany and France to overhaul their own economies and loosen up labor rules. That could make Europe more competitive and give it a much-needed shot of self-confidence.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%) EUROPEAN UNION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); POLAND (92%); LITHUANIA (92%); SLOVAKIA (92%); CYPRUS (92%); HUNGARY (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (91%); SLOVENIA (91%); ESTONIA (90%); MALTA (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (78%); LATVIA (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



16 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY & BUSINESS: PENDING; 
UAL Aims to End Bankruptcy

 BODY:
 UAL, the parent company of United Airlines, is aiming to emerge from bankruptcy court in late spring, after having made the largest filing for Chapter 11 protection in aviation history in December 2002. 
Until last August, when it gave a new schedule to a bankruptcy court judge in Chicago, the company had been saying it would emerge from bankruptcy protection as early as this month. United, the second-largest airline, behind American, has said it will start operating a low-fare airline called Ted in February. In the third quarter of 2003, UAL reported an operating profit of $19 million, its first since the spring of 2000.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AIR FARES (86%); JUDGES (85%); COMPANY PROFITS (82%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BANKRUPTCIES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UAL CORP; UNITED AIRLINES 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



17 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: International Business; 
Slowly, Home Loans Catch On in Russia

BYLINE:  By ERIN E. ARVEDLUND 

DATELINE: Moscow 

 BODY:
ONE morning in August last year, Valeria A. Korchagina woke up resolved to buy -- not to rent -- an apartment for herself and her husband. But where would she get the money? 
 Ms. Korchagina, 32, would soon become one of only a few thousand people in Russia to take out a home mortgage. In a country roiled several times in the last decade by hyperinflation and a national debt default, she is part of an experimental market that lacks some of the West's traditional financial foundations even as it bucks Russia's deep cultural aversion to borrowing large sums of money from banks. 
 A true mortgage market in Russia has been over a decade in coming, but with oil prices high and Russia's economy growing -- at a 6.6 percent annual rate this year and a rate projected by Alfa Bank to be 5 percent in 2004 -- some Russians are growing more secure in their finances and are more willing to take on debt. Still, they are a minority.
"My parents went crazy," said Ms. Korchagina, a former ballerina and now a journalist. "They said, 'Why borrow from a bank when you can borrow from us or from your friends?"' 
But now, she and her husband, Patrick Henry, a doctoral candidate in Russian literature, own a three-room, two-bedroom apartment not far from the center of Moscow. 
In the end, she did borrow some money from her family, but she paid most of the purchase price with a $30,000 mortgage from DeltaCredit Bank, a mortgage financing agency backed by the World Bank and the United States Russia Investment Fund, which is financed by Congress. Within a year almost to the day of that summer morning, she found a place that she and her husband could afford, and they have moved in. 
In a survey in February for the Center for Real Estate Analysis, a research firm in Moscow, 77 percent of those polled said they wanted better housing. 
But unlike Westerners, Russians are not rushing to take out mortgages. In addition to that aversion to borrowing, there are practical reasons, like a lack of credit bureaus to check the creditworthiness of buyers or sellers. 
Also, underreporting of incomes is widespread in Russia, because of fears of a run-in with the tax authorities, and most Russians would rather pay cash for a home, with money borrowed from friends and family, than create a paper trail. 
In addition, some Russians do not need a mortgage because their employers lend them money for housing or even buy them apartments.
So the mortgage market in Russia is small, not more than 29 billion rubles, or about $1 billion, roughly 0.1 percent of the country's gross domestic product. In the European Union, the mortgage market averages 53 percent of G.D.P. 
The first step in the 1990's was the mass privatization of residences under President Boris N. Yeltsin, who signed a law granting ownership to residents of government-run housing. Previously, in Soviet times, apartments were doled out by the government, which owned all property, and privileged Communist Party members or the intelligentsia were generally first in line. 
For most Russians, privatization was a windfall, and set off a boom in real estate. In the lawless decade that followed, many Russians, particularly the elderly, were killed for their newly privatized apartments. 
Today, roughly 70 percent of Russians own their homes, said James Cook, chairman and chief executive of DeltaCredit Bank, which is part of Delta Capital Management. That is up from about 33 percent in 1990. 
"The average size of a mortgage we're lending out is $40,000 for a one-bedroom apartment," Mr. Cook said. "And most of the people getting them are between 25 and 35 years old, who represent the emerging young middle class." Delta has originated about $100 million in mortgages nationwide since it was founded five years ago, and it estimates that amount will more than double in 2004. 
What could give the market further impetus is a draft law on mortgage-backed securities, which President Vladimir Putin is expected to sign this fall, said Nikolai Chitov, a mortgage expert at Troika-Dialog, an investment firm in Moscow. 
The law would provide much-needed financing for institutions to offer mortgage loans with longer maturities than 10 years. Also, the law would allow banks and other finance agencies to issue mortgage-backed securities that offset the risk of lending money to individual borrowers. 
Sberbank, a government-owned savings bank that controls roughly 70 percent of retail bank deposits, has dominated the mortgage lending business. Now, Vneshtorgbank and other Russian banks are moving into the arena, and the International Finance Corporation, the finance arm of the World Bank, has backed DeltaCredit and an Austrian bank, Raiffeisen, for residential mortgages.
THE finance corporation also advised Russia's Parliament on the mortgage-backed-securities legislation. Russia's new Agency for Housing Mortgage Lending hopes to become an active lender.
A big problem in developing the mortgage market is that it is hard for banks to foreclose on residential property, says Peter Ellis, an author of a World Bank report. It is politically awkward, and Russian law favors tenants' rights, particularly with laws protecting neglected children. 
Another concern is that "rapid development of mortgage finance would likely only fuel house-price inflation without contributing to better housing conditions for the bulk of the population," the World Bank says. 
The market is also being squeezed because the supply of housing is not keeping up with demand, and that could drive up prices. Housing construction in Russia dropped 7.6 percent from 1996 to 2001, according to the World Bank. 
Another obstacle is high interest rates: Ms. Korchagina signed a 10-year dollar-denominated loan at 15 percent a year, and interest rates for loans in rubles are even higher.
Although Ms. Korchagina had a mortgage, the seller did not have one for her new home and wanted cash for the apartment.
"I went to the bank handling my mortgage loan, and they literally counted out $30,000 in dollar bills," Ms. Korchagina said. "I was so worried and upset, that it became physically unpleasant to walk around with all that money." Nevertheless, she brought the cash in a plastic bag to the closing and walked away with the keys to her new home.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Valeria A. Korchagina in the new apartment she and her husband, Patrick Henry, bought with a mortgage, unlike most Russians. (Photo by Alexandra Kocho-Schellenberg for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (75%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); WRITERS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); TAX AUTHORITIES (60%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%) HOUSING; MORTGAGES 

PERSON: ARVEDLUND, ERIN E 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



18 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Outlook; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Economy & Business; 
For the Influential, Time SaversTop Holiday Gift Lists

 BODY:
WHAT do people with busy lives and influential jobs value in their purchases? Reporters asked several such people to name their favorite purchase this year and something they looked forward to buying in 2004. Thoughts on holiday giving and receiving were also sought. 
 The answers from the six people interviewed were wide ranging, but if there was a common thread among them, it is that saving time or making time is often the crucial factor. The choices include trips that afford days of leisure and family togetherness, and gadgets that make life ever more efficient -- like that laser level that you might not even have known you needed. 

NICHOLAS CALLAWAY, president of Callaway Arts and Entertainment, whose Callaway Editions in New York this year published two children's books by Madonna, "The English Roses" and "Mr. Peabody's Apples."
Favorite purchase in 2003: The trip I bought for me and my family to go to Machu Picchu with a tour company.
Holiday gift you're most looking forward to giving: A pug for my 9-year-old son, Issey, because the dog's color will fit in well with the color scheme of our other pets.
Holiday gift you're most looking forward to receiving: Vacation time to use the Bliss Spa gift certificate given to me by my staff for my 50th birthday this year.
A purchase planned for 2004: A GSM phone (global system for mobile communications) that also works at home. 

RACHELLE FRIEDMAN, co-chief executive of J&R Music and Computer World, New York.
Favorite purchase in 2003: My Sony Clie, because it's basically my whole business life in a tiny little computer. I can do mye-mail wirelessly. It just makes my life more efficient. 
Holiday gift you're most looking forward to giving: A notebook computer for my parents. As they're getting older, I'd like to exchange e-mail with them, have them finally use the digital camera and be able to exchange pictures via e-mail. 
Holiday gift you're most looking forward to receiving: I think we are planning a trip with the whole family, two weeks with my new daughter-in-law and my two sons. That is the present I would like most. We're thinking of going to several countries in Europe.
A purchase planned for 2004: I don't know if it's a purchase, but it's a big plan that I have. We've been building a house for some time, and I can finally move in. We want to inaugurate the house with a big charity event for J&R's World of Ohel's Children, which is a New York City-area charity benefiting neglected, abused and foster children. We figured that the best way to kick it off is to have a big event for this cause, which is very important to me. 

BOB VILA, president of BVTV Inc., Martha's Vineyard, which produces the home-improvement show "Bob Vila's Home Again."
Favorite purchase in 2003: The Bose Quiet Comfort Acoustic Noise-Canceling Headphones. I travel a lot, and these headphones make it possible for me to be on an airplane, train or in a car without distractions. They are a must for anyone who travels extensively, like I do.
Holiday gift you're most looking forward to giving: The Craftsman Laser Trac Level. This is a tool I've talked about on TV that allows the user to project a laser in a level (horizontal) or plumb (vertical) line so that he or she has a level and straight benchmark to work from. It is especially useful in serious construction when walls are being built or kitchen cabinets are being installed. It's also terrific for anyone to use when hanging art or mounting shelving. Before this technology, carpenters used the old-fashioned level and chalk lines to define the lines they needed, and many others just used the "eyeballing" technique. I love giving this tool as a gift because it's versatile, easy to use and affordable to give. Everybody needs one of these laser levels!
Holiday gift you're most looking forward to receiving: I'm hoping someone will give me some fishing gear this Christmas. I spend a lot of time on or near the water, so a new fly rod to go after "the big one" would make me very happy.
A purchase planned for 2004: I'm looking at purchasing the Panasonic Plasma TV. It's the way to go to have a great state of the art home-entertainment center and save space at the same time.

N. GREGORY MANKIW, the chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, Washington.
Favorite purchase in 2003: Mike Woodford's "Interest and Prices," a new landmark treatise on monetary theory. A must-read for econo-nerds.
Holiday gift you're most looking forward to giving: An electric guitar for my 9-year-old son, as a reward for having practiced diligently on the acoustic for the past two years.
Holiday gift you're most looking forward to receiving: Ties. Having left Harvard for the White House, I now have to wear one every day.
A purchase planned for 2004: Many, many tickets on the US Air Shuttle, so I can escape Washington and visit my family in Massachusetts on the weekends.

PAMELA FIORI, editor in chief of Town & Country magazine, New York.
Favorite purchase in 2003: I bought a town house in South Florida for my mother and my sister. It is spacious, full of light and affords each of them ample privacy. It even has an extra guest room for, ahem, visiting relatives.
Holiday gift you're most looking forward to giving: Checks to my favorite charities. I plan to spend most of a morning between Christmas and New Year's listening to gorgeous holiday music while making one contribution after another. 
Holiday gift you're most looking forward to receiving: Whatever my darling husband decides to give me. He has great taste and is terrifically sentimental about Christmas. (He proposed to me on Christmas Eve in front of the tree at Rockefeller Center in 1981.) Mostly, I look forward to the Christmas card that he always makes for me. It is usually hilariously funny and invariably involves our two cats, to whom we are totally and irrationally devoted. 
A purchase planned for 2004: My husband and I both have big birthdays coming up in 2004. (We are five years apart; suffice it to say we are not celebrating our 25th and our 30th.) We want to take a trip somehow where we can disappear for a week, maybe two. Alone. Together.

HOWARD D. SCHULTZ, chairman and chief global strategist, the Starbucks Corporation, Seattle.
Favorite purchase in 2003: A VW Bug Convertible -- it brought back the joy of driving. 
Holiday gift you're most looking forward to giving: Two books -- Peter Barton's "Not Fade Away" and Mitch Albom's "Five People You Meet in Heaven." 
Holiday gift you're most looking forward to receiving: Good technology -- the Handspring Treo 600 Smartphone. 
A purchase planned for 2004: A reloadable Starbucks Card with an unlimited balance.

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); CHARITIES (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); CHRISTMAS (72%); GLOBAL SYSTEM FOR MOBILE COMMUNICATION (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (69%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (69%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); RETAILERS (59%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; GIFTS; CHRISTMAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



19 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Economy & Business; 
I.R.S. Set To Resolve Disputes Online

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
FINDING a notice from the Internal Revenue Service in the mail is enough to ruin the day for many people, and the ensuing headache can last for weeks or months, as a taxpayer deals with clerk after clerk trying to get the information needed to resolve the issue. Next year, though, the ordeal will be much briefer for millions of taxpayers who rely on professionals to prepare their tax returns.
 Perhaps before spring, tax professionals will be able to go online and get the information needed to resolve many problems in minutes, said Terence H. Lutes, the I.R.S. director for electronic tax administration. 
 For taxpayers, speeding the resolution of disputes should mean lower fees to their tax advisers, as well as less anxiety. In many cases, Mr. Lutes said, the cost to the I.R.S. of resolving a problem will drop to pennies from tens of dollars. 
The I.R.S. is testing a system called Electronic Account Resolution with a handful of tax professionals. Lawyers, accountants and enrolled agents -- a kind of preparer who is authorized to represent taxpayers before the I.R.S. -- will be able to use the system; they can go online now to register. But individuals and other paid preparers will not have access. 
James Leimbach, an enrolled agent in Panama City, Fla., who is one of the testers, is enthusiastic. "Through a simple three-step process," Mr. Leimbach said, "I will be able to electronically access my client's tax records and then resolve problems."
Under the present nonelectronic system, tax professionals must show the agency a power of attorney from the taxpayer before the I.R.S. will talk to them. While I.R.S. clerks will sometimes accept a faxed form, getting approval to represent a client can take days.
With the new system, a taxpayer fills out the power of attorney form and gives it to the tax adviser. Then the adviser logs on to an I.R.S. computer, using a secure Internet connection, punching in the client's adjusted gross income from any of the three previous years, the year of the return and the taxpayer's birth date. The taxpayer also gives a self-selected personal identification number.
"You get disclosure authorization almost instantly," Mr. Leimbach said. Immediately, a request can be made for the taxpayer's records, known as a transcript.
"Typically, getting a transcript took 5 to 10 days when ordered through the mail," he said. "With the new system, I will be able to pull transcripts up electronically."
Such speedy gathering of information and problem resolution -- in contrast to hours or days of work -- should hold down the fees taxpayers pay their advisers.
At first, the system can be used to resolve simple problems, like tracing payments, tracking refunds and entering into installment agreements to pay taxes.
The agency has not begun to work on more complex problems, like proposals to settle a tax debt for less than the full amount, Mr. Lutes said.
Initially, access will be limited to tax professionals who file 100 or more tax returns electronically. So whether you go to a big firm like H&R Block, Jackson-Hewitt or Liberty Tax Services or all but the smallest filing-season-only tax preparers, your tax professional is likely to have access.
The I.R.S. hopes the limitation will encourage more tax professionals to file returns electronically. The 1998 I.R.S. Reform and Restructuring Act directed the agency to use incentives to encourage electronic filing. 
The agency and some lawmakers hope that savings from reducing and eventually eliminating paper returns will allow more money to be spent on enforcing tax laws.
The General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, reported on Nov. 6 that more than 30 million tax returns from 2001 that were prepared on computers were submitted on paper last year. The I.R.S. has to get 80 percent of all returns filed electronically by 2007.
This year, individual taxpayers will be able to use an Internet connection, as they did last year, to track refunds. Mr. Lutes said if the I.R.S. adjusted a return and the refund was smaller than expected, the taxpayer would be notified over the Internet to call one of its offices. About 37 million people used the system last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); POWER OF ATTORNEY (72%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (66%) TAXATION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; LUTES, TERENCE H 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



20 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Economy & Business; 
The Teenage Market: Young, Hip and Looking for a Bargain

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER BAYOT 

 BODY:
AH, the teenager: grown up enough to work part time, but not too old for birthday money or that weekly allowance.
 Altogether, the country's 32 million teenagers have $94.7 billion at their disposal, says Harris Interactive, the market research firm that conducts the Harris Poll. 
 Their own spending power makes teenagers a lucrative market. Factor in the jeans and video games bought by doting grandparents, or the laptops and DVD players that they recommend to aunts and uncles, and teenagers' contributions to consumer spending multiply. 
And like the typical consumer who has been resilient in the face of a sluggish economy, teenagers are learning to become smart shoppers and make their dollars go further. Teenagers' awakening to discount chains, in fact, is "the biggest shift going on in the teen space right now," said Lauren Cooks Levitan, a retail analyst with SG Cowen.
Still, teenagers do not respond to economic factors nearly as much as older consumers do, she said. "And the reason is that their disposable income equals their spendable income."
In other words, teenagers with money in their pockets typically can buy whatever they want, which Ms. Levitan says tends to be clothes, consumer electronics and entertainment. Although some parents may require children to save a certain amount of their money, few teenagers have to worry about utility bills or mortgage payments.
Michael Brown, a high school freshman from Granger, Ind., explained it this way: "I hate going to the mall and shopping for everyone because it takes so long. But if I'm there maybe for me, I like it more and buy more."
He added: "When I was younger, something that was $100 was like, 'Whoa.' Now it's like, '$100 -- that might take a birthday and some extra chores."'
When he turned 15 last month, Michael received an Apple iPod, the digital music player, and $76 in cash from relatives. A few days later, he spent the gift money plus some of his savings on accessories for the iPod: a $40 case to protect it ("Yeah, outrageous," he said), $40 cables to transfer songs to his computer or play them in the car, and an $8 splitter to stream the music to two sets of headphones. 
Certainly teenagers have been facing some economic pressures. The Bureau of Labor Statistics says that the percentage of teenagers employed this year is the lowest since 1963-64. Also, the average weekly paycheck of a working teenager has fallen 15 percent since 1998, to $90.90 a week, according to Mediamark Research, a New York firm owned by United Business Media. The average allowance, meanwhile, has grown only 9 percent, to $26.70 a week from $24.50 in 1998.
But shopping still comes with being a teenager. "We all love shopping," says Shikisha Stoute, a 13-year-old eighth-grader from Jersey City. "It gives you time to spend with your friends and hang out. And I think it's part of growing up." 
Just last year, Shikisha said, she wore clothes that her parents or her aunt picked out and bought for her; now she saves her money to buy her own outfits. She says that she and her friends can now go to the mall without a chaperone, and they even buy makeup once in a while. They have also stopped frequenting the Limited Too in favor of Old Navy, "where we can get stuff our age." Shikisha adds that they tend to look for bargains over brands: "We'll try to get the nicest things out of the money we have." 
Retail analysts say that many teenagers are looking for ways to stretch their dollars. For instance, Harris Interactive found that teenagers increasingly prefer to buy tickets to movies instead of theme parks, and jeans instead of sneakers. Student Monitor, a Ridgewood, N.J., company that studies college undergraduates, learned in a recent survey that a third of college freshmen and sophomores had visited a discount department store in the previous week, while only a fifth had visited specialty stores like Abercrombie & Fitch or the Gap.
"In college, you realize how much money you're spending on clothes when you could spend it on going out," said Anish Gala, a 19-year-old sophomore at the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga. Having to pay for necessities like books and groceries also inspires strategic spending, he said. "You kind of realize it doesn't really matter about the name brand. I like the TJ Maxx-type stores. Brand names for less."
In addition to becoming thriftier shoppers, teenagers are gaining influence on what their families buy. After surveying upward of 500 households last fall, Yankelovich, a marketing research firm in Norwalk, Conn., found that more than half of teenagers had helped their parents choose a family vacation spot, a 24 percent increase from a decade ago. Similarly, one in four teenagers had a say in what type of car to buy, up from one in six, and 43 percent helped pick out a television, VCR or DVD player, up from 12 percent in the period 10 years ago. "It really speaks to kids' being increasingly involved in significant household decisions," said Kristen Harmeling, a partner at Yankelovich.
Yankelovich also found that many parents relied on their teenagers to shop or at least browse for them on the Web. About 65 percent of 15- to 17-year-olds and 45 percent of 12- to 14-year-olds say their parents ask them to research products or services online. Those percentages respectively represent increases of 27 percent and 13 percent from just two years ago. 
Michael, the ninth-grader from Granger, Ind., did some comparison shopping online for his father last year. "It just snows and snows here," Michael says. "My dad said, 'If you don't like shoveling, you can shop online for a snowblower."' His father eventually bought a $600 model that Michael chose on the Web. 
As teenagers help their parents pick out purchases, their own buying habits are becoming more mature. Irma Zandl, a trend analyst and president of the Zandl Group in New York, said the 3,000 teenagers in her advisory group expected their peers to buy new fixtures and furniture to redecorate their rooms and more embellishments for their cars. 
And while they will keep on buying DVD's and video games, teenagers are also saving for camera phones and the Nokia N-Gage, a combined cellphone and game system that sells for $200. Ms. Zandl said that many teenagers were even looking at plasma televisions, which often cost thousands of dollars. 
With jobs scarce over the last few years, teenagers have held off on some big-ticket items, Ms. Zandl said. "But now," she added, "we're starting to see a lot of pent-up energy for spending."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Spending power: Anamaria Ford, 17, of Queens, at an H&M store in Manhattan, and a group of teenagers at the Garden State Plaza Mall in Paramus, N.J. (Photos by Top, Michael Nagle for The New York Times; bottom, Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (91%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TEENS MARKET (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RETAILERS (75%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); MATURE MARKET (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); MUSIC (67%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%); STATISTICS (60%); CD & DVD DRIVES (56%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; DISCOUNT SELLING; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

PERSON: BAYOT, JENNIFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



21 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Outlook; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: International Business; 
Thailand, a Retail Paradise

BYLINE:  By WAYNE ARNOLD 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE 

 BODY:
CHILDREN this time of year may dream of sugarplum fairies, but auto executives must fantasize about going to sleep and waking up in Thailand. 
 Thailand has become a tropical retailer's paradise, where people seem to spend with abandon. Sales of beer, soft drinks and motorcycles have all climbed to record levels this year. Car sales in October rose a dizzying 37 percent over the month a year ago. 
 "Cars are selling very well," said John Bonnell, executive director of Automotive Resources Asia, a research firm in Bangkok. "Consumer confidence is way up." 
Thailand's consumer spending boom is in its third year and shows little sign of slackening. According to the central bank, retail sales to Thailand's 61.2 million consumers rose in the second quarter, to a record 304 billion baht ($7.6 billion). With consumer financing readily available and household debts still manageable, consumers are gradually reducing Thailand's dependence on exports for growth, even as demand for Thai exports is recovering. 
"Consumer spending is one of the major drivers of economic growth in Thailand," said Daniel Lian, an economist at Morgan Stanley in Singapore. Morgan Stanley estimates that Thailand's economy will expand 6.3 percent this year, driven by a 5.6 percent rise in consumption.
Mr. Lian and other economists credit the trend in part to the fiscal policies of the government of Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra. The consumer appetite, already rekindled by Thailand's recovery from the financial crisis of 1997 and 1998, has been stoked to white-hot intensity.
Thailand is far from alone in wanting to overcome a dependence on exports. Overcoming export addiction has become a sort of mantra among Asian policy makers, especially those chafing at the political pressure from their biggest customer, the United States. While most recognize that the American trade deficit has left the dollar far overvalued, they fear giving in to Washington's demands that they let their currencies appreciate for fear of losing their export competitiveness. 
Thailand and other Asian exporters hope to replace demand from the United States with demand from home and neighbors. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations recently agreed to form a European-style economic community by 2020, creating a market of 530 million people.
With public savings rates high, Asian governments had typically recycled deposits into the economy through banks, which tended to lend to corporations, building export capacity. The Asian financial crisis crippled these banks, leaving them unable or unwilling to lend to companies that in many cases are still deep in debt.
"Individuals weren't really touched by the bubble and the financial crisis," said Pedro Rodriguez, chief executive of Cetelem Thailand, a consumer credit subsidiary of BNP Paribas. 
Mr. Thaksin also recognized the potential of the Thai depositor as an engine of growth. When he came to power in early 2001, he adopted policies that encouraged consumer spending, including urging government-owned banks to begin lending to households. He also instituted policies to help the less-affluent utilize overlooked assets like rice paddies, turning them into collateral. Other programs promote ownership of homes and computers.
"These schemes are creating capital and assets for households," Mr. Lian said. In turn, they promote spending. "Once you understand that you own more capital than you think, you can decide to plan more durable consumption," he said.
And so Thais are doing just that, led by a voracious appetite among 30-somethings, Mr. Rodriguez said. The Bank of Thailand projects that property sales will rise 30 percent this year; new housing was up 10 percent in the first eight months. Most of Cetelem's financing, Mr. Rodriguez said, goes toward decorating those new homes or improving existing ones. Home electronics are hot items. The market research firm IDC says computer sales and cellphone subscriptions are growing at double-digit rates.
Vehicle sales are at their highest since early 1997, with pickup trucks especially popular. Because the Thai government exempts pickups from excise taxes, Thailand is the world's second-largest market for them, after the United States.
Pickup sales rose 25.2 percent in October, according to Toyota Motor Thailand, which has become the industry's de facto scorekeeper. Toyota dominates the vehicle market, with 47.3 percent of the passenger-car segment.
Despite the consumer spending boom, in comparison with the average American, the average Thai is poor. Even in relatively affluent Bangkok, the average resident earns $12,000 a year, according to the AC Nielsen Corporation. Lending, therefore, has played a crucial, role in Thailand's consumer-spending boom. 
Consumer loans rose 23.5 percent in the first half of this year over the similar period of 2002, Morgan Stanley estimates, with many loans resembling microfinance. Cetelem, for example, worked with Kasikornbank of Thailand to offer personal loans to Thais earning as little as $1,950 a year. Mr. Rodriguez estimates that half of the televisions, personal computers and other white goods sold in Thailand are sold on credit.
Despite the surge in consumption, economists say that Thais are nowhere near being over their heads in debt. Personal indebtedness among Thais is still far lower than in Europe or the United States. Even with exports growing 9 percent in the third quarter, consumer spending is increasingly contributing to Thailand's growth. While consumption accounted for just under half of Thailand's economic expansion in 2002, Morgan Stanley estimates it will account for about 55 percent of the economy's expansion this year.
Indeed, economists say that Mr. Thaksin appears to have steered his country's economy into a virtuous cycle, with consumer spending lifting the economy, and economic growth in turn buoying consumer confidence.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Consumer spending, rekindled by Thailand's recovery from a financial crisis, is driving economic growth. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RETAILERS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); BANK FAILURES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (72%); BEER & ALE (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); SOFT DRINKS (57%) CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (56%); BNP (BIT) (56%); MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%)

PERSON: THAKSIN SHINAWATRA (PRIME MIN); ARNOLD, WAYNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) THAILAND (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); SINGAPORE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) THAILAND

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



22 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2433 words

HEADLINE: Why Americans Must Keep Spending 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
NOTHING props up the economy more than consumers, and dips in their spending frighten forecasters. But that is all that has happened in recent years -- dips, not plunges. Consumers in America spend because they feel they must spend. More than in the past, the necessities of life, real and perceived, eat up their incomes.
 That treadmill spending is good news for the economy. As a recovery takes hold, the biggest threat to its survival would be a downturn in consumer spending. That is not inconceivable: The support for recent spending -- the household cash generated through mortgage refinancings and tax cuts -- is disappearing, and a new source of cash, from many new jobs and many new paychecks, is not yet a reality. 
 But do not worry, various experts say. Consumers will keep spending anyway, going deeper into debt to do so if they must. They have too many needs, some that were luxuries only yesterday. A second car and child care, for example, are now necessities for millions of households with two earners commuting to jobs. Mall-crawling, for all its popularity, is increasingly the anomaly, not the norm, in the vast realm of personal consumption. 
So as the typical household keeps spending, and as other sectors of the economy revive, the country will prosper. There is considerable optimism on this point among the nation's forecasters. All but one of the 51 surveyed by Blue Chip Economic Indicators expect the economy to grow more strongly in 2004 than it has in the past 33 months -- expanding at a 4 percent annual rate, up from less than 3 percent through most of the past three years. 
"The economic upturn does have staying power," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist of Banc America Capital Management, the primary investment management group of the Bank of America. 
Business investment, she notes, is already on the rise, profits are soaring and stock prices have gone up, reawakening the wealth effect. Above all, consumption outlays, which never flagged during the 2001 recession and the weak economic growth thereafter, surged in the third quarter, contributing significantly to economic growth. Not surprisingly, mortgage refinancing reached a peak in this quarter, as homeowners took advantage of low interest rates, and so did the effects of the tax cuts championed by the Bush administration. Without that support, consumer spending may dip in the months ahead, but it will not plunge. Too much of a household's income goes for items now considered necessities. 
This spending truly matters. Consumers are purchasing roughly $7.6 trillion a year in goods and services. Their outlays represent about two-thirds of the nation's economic activity, so when people slow their buying, the growth of the economy also slows. But that seldom happens anymore. 
Look back to 1947, a total of 227 quarters. In only 20 of these three-month periods did a drop or weakness in consumer spending curb economic growth or weaken an expansion, and most of that occurred in the early decades. Only three times in the last two decades has consumer spending faltered enough to damage the economy -- twice during the 1990-1991 recession and once as the slow recovery got under way. That drag disappeared in the 2001 recession, the first since the 1940's in which consumer spending rose enough to limit the contraction instead of contributing to it. 
This suggests that consumers are earmarking an increasing share of their disposable income for purchases that are, or that they consider, necessary, even in recessions. "The spending you can't fool around with has gone up -- for homes, health insurance, day care, car payments," said Elizabeth Warren, a Harvard Law School professor and co-author of "The Two-Income Trap" (Basic Books, 2003). She argues that the optional portion of consumer spending has become relatively small.
SO even if more jobs and more paychecks fail to materialize, the typical household will keep up its spending, Ms. Warren contends. People will do so by going into debt, or deeper into debt, to acquire what they view as essentials. Such consumption will help sustain the economy in the coming presidential election year, although painfully for many households. "It is hard to construct a happy story for 2004 unless we consistently create a significant number of jobs, which we have not done yet," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com, a research and consulting firm.
The happy story will materialize once the strengthening economy is consistently generating 300,000 jobs a month, said Jared Bernstein, senior labor economist at the Economic Policy Institute. So far, job creation, while finally rising, has not reached half that level. If the level is reached soon and maintained over the next year, that would be enough to absorb the nearly 3 million people who want to work and begin to push wages up. Real disposable personal income -- that is after-tax income -- has risen by 3.2 percent over the past year, but that resulted almost entirely from the mortgage refinancings and tax cuts, the Commerce Department reported. The wage portion has been stagnant for nearly three years. 
"Nonlabor sources have been the sole driver of real disposable income," Mr. Bernstein said. 
The growing list of purchases that households consider essential helps explain why "personal consumption expenditures," as the Commerce Department calls them, held up so well over the last 33 months, which included an eight-month recession followed by persistently weak economic growth. 
There have been 10 recessions since World War II, and this was the first in which consumer spending provided support instead of dragging the economy down. With jobs disappearing and wage income going nowhere since 2001, that support should theoretically have given way this time, too. But households regarded an increasing portion of their outlays as essential.
What is more, they had nonwage means to pay for them. Rising home prices and falling interest rates allowed homeowners to withdraw tens of billions of dollars in equity from their homes through mortgage refinancing. Tax cuts have also fueled consumer spending. The two together put more than $200 billion into people's pockets this year. The falling interest rates also encouraged households to run up other debt: car loans, for example, and on credit cards.
Still, while consumer debt, including mortgages, is at a record level -- approaching $8 trillion, according to the Federal Reserve -- the monthly repayment at nearly 14 percent of disposable income is manageable, according to Edward McKelvey, a senior economist at Goldman Sachs. The Federal Reserve's "financial obligations ratio," which includes debt service as well as rent, auto leases, property taxes and homeowner insurance, comes in at 18 percent of disposable income. Both measures are at near-record levels, but not so high as to inhibit spending, thanks mainly to low interest rates.
"What consumers consistentlytell us is that mortgage rates and car loan rates have never been lower, and that is an opportunity they don't think they should miss," said Richard T. Curtin, director of consumer surveys at the University of Michigan. "They don't expect these rates to be lower in their lifetimes." 
Now these sources of cash flow -- particularly mortgage refinancing, the biggest source of all -- are drying up as interest rates begin to rise in a strengthening economy, and the tax cuts run their course. As a result, the total new stimulus from these sources will be around $100 billion in 2004, less than half this year's injection. Most of it will be delivered in the winter and spring in the form of tax refunds, as a result of the retroactive nature of this year's tax cut. 
"Our models tell us that modest increases in interest rates will sharply curtail mortgage refinancing by the end of the first quarter," said Douglas Duncan, chief economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association in Washington. 
But economic rescue is at hand, the forecasters insist. They foresee rising employment that will lead to more wage income as the recovery takes root. Or, as James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist for Wells Capital Management, put it: "We are switching stimulants for the household." 
Consumer spending is not the only source of economic growth, of course. Government outlays and business investment are also big factors, but the former comes to $2.1 trillion annually and the latter to $1.2 trillion. So if consumer spending, the $7.6 trillion elephant, is pulling the nation's $10.8 trillion economy in one direction, neither of the other factors pulling in the opposite direction is likely to win the tug of war. That is particularly the case today. Government spending is barely rising, and business investment, although rising strongly, is limited mainly to replacement of aging computers, government data suggest. Given so much idle production capacity, economists say, business investment for expansion is not likely to kick in soon.
That makes the composition of consumer spending increasingly important in assessing the economy. If consumers were to decide that they could cut back on spending, the recovery would be in trouble. However, as long as they view much of their spending as essential, it should be sufficient to support the recovery. 
Statistics compiled by the Commerce and Labor Departments are inconclusive on this issue because the line between discretionary and essential spending is hard to draw. "They form a continuum," said Stephen Brobeck, executive director of the Consumer Federation of America, but the continuum, he said, is tilting toward more nondiscretionary spending. 
Typical households -- those that account for more than half of the nation's personal consumption expenditures -- have two earners and one or two children, according to various experts in these demographics. The two earners bring home together $60,000 to $80,000 a year, and they disperse 70 to 75 percent of it for essentials: groceries, home costs, vehicles and fuel, public transportation, education and health care. That outlay is up roughly four percentage points since 1990, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
More important is the remaining 25 percent or so of the spending. It could weaken the economy if it declined sharply enough. That 25 percent seems discretionary, but in many cases it is not, said Mark Cooper, director of research at the Consumer Federation. Take cable or satellite television, cellphones and Internet hookups. The majority of the nation's 111 million households have one or more of these items, and the proportion is rising. For all three, a household pays at least $130 a month in fees, all of it once considered discretionary. "People have come to define their quality of life as being full participants in the information age," Mr. Cooper said, "so they give up the connections slowly, and they feel deprived when they have to do without cable TV or cellphones or the Internet."
What about designer wear, electronic gadgets, television sets? They are more easily sacrificed than housing or food in hard times. Yet expenditures are rising for this merchandise, too, strong evidence that they have been converted into essentials for many households through social pressures, says Juliet B. Schor, an economist and sociologist at Boston College and the author of "The Overspent American" (Basic Books, 1998). "These lifestyle and expenditure norms have risen pretty dramatically for the middle class and the upper middle class," she said. 
No one has been more forceful lately than Ms. Warren and her daughter, Amelia Warren Tyagi, a business consultant, in pushing the message that the typical household is increasingly diverting income to purchases they now see as essential. In their book, "The Two-Income Trap," they define essential consumption more narrowly than Ms. Schor, excluding purchases that result from social pressure.
They see the pressure on a household to spend beyond its means as coming from two directions: Household incomes are rising more slowly than the costs, yet families keep up their spending because so much of it is needed to maintain a certain standard of living. Stretching to purchase a home in a community with a good school system, for example, is viewed by many as a necessity and not an option, now that public school quality has declined in so many less expensive communities. "People will not give up these homes," Ms. Warren said. "They have to be persuaded there is no hope before they do that."
A third squeeze, the authors note, is that the typical household already has two adults at work. By contrast, in the early 1970's most households had one adult (usually the wife) still at home, available to take a job and supplement family income if the principal earner's wages fell short. 
The arguments made by Ms. Warren and Ms. Tyagi resonate. Personal consumption expenditures, adjusted for inflation, have risen since 1973 at a faster average annual rate than median household income, similarly adjusted for inflation: spending is up at a 3.2 percent annual rate versus a 0.5 percent increase in income, according to recent government data.
As a result, a typical two-earner household with a $68,000 annual income today is earmarking 75 percent of it for such fixed costs as mortgage payments, child care, health insurance, cars and taxes. In the early 70's, only 54 percent of a typical household's $39,000 income went for the same expenses, the two authors maintain. 
"What happens when income falls short is that people start increasing the risks they take to keep up their spending," Ms. Warren said. Cut off from mortgage refinancing, they turn to home-equity loans, which are now on the rise, and, if they cannot pay their debts, to personal bankruptcy. Bankruptcies have risen in each of the past three years.
In this situation, rising employment and the new paychecks that come with it are the lifesaver nearly every forecaster is counting on to sustain consumption. But the hiring will have to be robust, approaching 300,000 new jobs a month, Mr. McKelvey of Goldman Sachs said, echoing Mr. Bernstein. Otherwise it will not generate enough new disposable income to offset the rise in debt payments as interest rates go up -- and people might grow reluctant to take on new debt, even to buy essentials. 
"That is the pessimistic scenario," Mr. McKelvey said. "But in my mind there will be enough job growth; that is a more realistic scenario. The numbers today have created a sense that the process has begun to take shape, and in two or three months, we'll be there."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Peter Hoey)(pg. C1) Graph: "Tax Cuts Add to Income"Real disposable personal income is up over the last two years, helped by an inflow from tax cuts but almost not at all by wages. Graph tracks the year-over-year changes of real wage contribution to income growth*, tax cuts contribution to income growth* and real disposable personal income in percentage points since 2000. (Source by Economic Policy Institute analysis of Commerce Department data)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (67%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; INCOME; CONSUMER CREDIT 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



23 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Outlook; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Economy & Business; 
Selling to 45-Plus Generation: That's Where the Money Is

BYLINE:  By KENNETH GILPIN 

 BODY:
AMERICA is aging, and some people suggest that marketers are going to have to change their ways and start trying to appeal to the older set.
 "A lot of companies are afraid that if they admit they are appealing to a 45-plus market, they aren't cool or hip any more," said Lori Bitter, a partner at the Mature Market Group, part of J. Walter Thompson Worldwide, in San Francisco. 
 But, he said, "the 18-to 34-year-old population is shrinking, not growing.
"The 45-plus market is the new customer majority. This isn't anything we are making up. This is real. It's huge." 
By 2010, the Census Bureau estimates, roughly half of the nation's population will be older than 40, up from 43.4 percent as of the most recent census. Right now, about four million people a year are turning 50, a trend that will continue for years, as the Baby Boomers -- people born between 1946 and 1964 -- age. In addition, more than 40 million Americans are already 65 or older. 
This big and growing over-45 segment of the population is also the most affluent. Collectively, those 46 and older control more than half of the nation's discretionary income, according to Mature Marketing and Research, a Boston-based firm, and they own more than three-quarters of the nation's financial wealth. 
Carol M. Morgan and Doran J. Levy whose book "Marketing to the Mindset of Boomers and Their Elders," was published last year by Attitudebase, say that households headed by someone 40 or older hold 91 percent of America's net worth. 
"The mature market," they say, "is the dominant market in the U.S. economy, making the majority of expenditures in virtually every category." 
And so how do older Americans spend their money?
Almost two-thirds of spending by people 45 and older is tied to three basic categories -- housing, transportation and food -- according to the results of a 2002 survey conducted by Scarborough Consumer Behavior Research published earlier this year by AARP. The remaining third is carved into a variety of slices, including buying financial products like insurance and investments, health care, entertainment and clothes. 
In a survey conducted in July by CNW Marketing/Research of Bandon, Ore., that explored the top 10 spending intentions by Americans 45 and older for the following six months, making a personal investment and taking a long vacation in the United States were the top choices. Those aged 45 to 54 listed investing first. The top pick of those 55 to 64 and those 65 and above was a long vacation in the United States. 
In addition, a large percentage in each of the three age groups said they intended to buy various electronic products, including home theaters and home computers. Buying a new car was one of the top five purchase choices in each of the age groups. 
Unlike the younger groups, which did not mention traveling abroad, 7.3 percent of those over 65 said they intended to take a long foreign trip, a typical leisure plan for the retired. 
Among those interested in buying a car, Ford brands were the most popular in the over-45 age group, according to CNW. But those prospective purchasers are difficult to pigeonhole about which models they buy. 
"They don't have one brand preference per se," said Jan Valentic, vice president for global marketing at the Ford Motor Company. "They are looking for product segments that turn them on." 
But with greater significance for the retailing industry, Americans 50 and older are increasingly using the Internet to shop. 
According to figures in "A Nation Online," a Commerce Department study released in February 2002, more than 33 million, or 43 percent, of Americans age 50 and older have been online. Of those, eMarketer.com, a New York-based Internet research firm, recently noted that 54 percent of those under the age of 55 had bought online, while 42 percent of those over 55 had done so.
"Clearly, as the Internet has begun to reach saturation in the U.S., more users have learned to trust online purchasing," the report said. Several studies project that as the population ages, online shopping by older Americans will increase. However, there are no truly reliable estimates on how much money those over 45 spend online. 
In total, eMarketer.com estimates that last year business-to-consumer e-commerce sales were $70.3 billion. That number is expected to rise to $86.9 billion this year. By 2005, eMarketer.com projects that consumers will spend more than $133 billion online.
Whether online or in stores, Americans are spending quite liberally on their grandchildren -- $26 billion, in fact, last year, according to estimates from the NPD Group, a market information company in Port Washington, N.Y. That was up 1.7 percent from such spending in 2001. That includes spending on presents, toys, video games, books and cash, although it does not include estate-planning gifts to education-oriented savings plans. 
"Some of the things they are giving are things they are interested in," said Marshal Cohen, chief analyst at the NPD Group. "They are determined not to let their interests die with them, whether it is cooking, sewing or cricket. But it could be anything."
Even as grandparents are spending money on their grandchildren, a growing segment of people over 45 are spending money, or forgoing income, to take care of their parents.
According to Peter Uhlenberg, a gerontologist at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, in 1900, only 4 percent of 50-year-old adults could say that both parents were still alive. But by 2000, 27 percent could make the same claim. In 2000, Dr. Uhlenberg said, 44 percent of 60-year-old Americans had at least one parent who was still alive. 
In an online survey conducted earlier this year of nearly 1,400 employees at three large industrial companies who personally care for a parent or in-law, MetLife's Mature Market Institute found that almost half the men and women surveyed reported they contributed nearly $3,300 a year to cover expenses for giving such care. 
The results of a poll conducted earlier this year by AARP on work patterns provide an indication that the younger members of the so-called elderly population have no intention of slowing down. 
In the nationwide survey of just over 2,000 people ages 50 to 70 who are either working full time or part time, nearly 70 percent said they planned to work into their retirement years or never retire. Almost half said they envisioned working into their 70's, or beyond. 
"We are all beginning to realize that because we are living longer, old age may not begin until 75 or 80," said Ken Dychtwald, founder of AgeWave, a San Francisco-based consulting group that focuses on the baby boom and mature-adult segments of the population. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BABY BOOMERS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (86%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); TRENDS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); MATURE MARKET (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); CENSUS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (74%); POPULATION DECLINE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); DISCRETIONARY INCOME (70%); RESEARCH REPORTS (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; AGE (CHRONOLOGICAL); UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: JWT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%)

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



24 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Economy & Business; 
Hotels to Flaunt Brands and Add Amenities

BYLINE:  By JOE SHARKEY 

 BODY:
MORE than ever, hotel chains will emphasize their brands next year as they try to appeal to business and leisure travelers who are bargain hunters on some trips and free spenders on others.
 "The chain image is no longer necessarily a negative," said Judy A. Siguaw, a professor of marketing at the Cornell University School of Hotel Administration. Hotel companies are "throwing a lot of money into marketing and promotion" to establish their brands, she said. The goal is to encourage customers' loyalty to the brand, whether they are staying at a roadside motel on one trip or springing for a luxury hotel or resort on another. Like air travel, domestic hotel occupancy rates are rising again, in recovery from the general decline in travel that followed the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. According to Smith Travel Research, occupancy increased significantly in the third quarter of 2003 over the period a year earlier. In 2002, occupancy rates were the lowest in decades. The increases this year were greater at luxury hotels than at midprice and economy lodgings. 
 The demand for luxury hotels and resorts is seen as a reflection of the buying power of baby boomers, who dominate travel spending. It is also a sign of the rapid internationalization of business travel. After the recent expansion of its five-star hotels in Tokyo, Hong Kong and Paris, for example, Hyatt International said this fall that it planned an aggressive building campaign of luxury hotels in mainland China, where it expects to have as many as 24 properties within a decade. Hyatt is also expanding in the Middle East.
While North American luxury hotel operators like Hyatt, Four Seasons, Marriott (which owns the Ritz-Carlton brand) and others plant their flags abroad, foreign operators of five-star hotels like Sofitel, Shangri-La, Le Meridien, Mandarin Oriental and Peninsula are opening glittering properties or scouting locations in the United States. "You need to have a presence for your brand in the world's key gateway cities," said Raymond Bickson, managing director of Taj Hotels, a luxury group based in India. Taj is planning an ambitious expansion in Europe and Asia, and is looking for a site in New York, Mr. Bickson said.
Domestic full-service hotels will especially benefit from increased business-travel spending next year, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers, which has forecast a "robust lodging demand recovery" for 2004.
That recovery is already apparent. Occupancy rates this Christmas season are expected to rise 4.6 percent over last year's period and to match the levels of 2000, PFK Consulting forecast.
With overcapacity in the industry, average domestic room rates are expected to rise only slightly next year. With business travel increasing, corporations are increasingly able to negotiate better volume discounts with hotels. This is expected to result in a 2 percent decrease in rates paid under corporate contracts with hotels, according to Eclipse Advisers, a research company.
Competition, already fierce, is expected to intensify. Even at domestic midlevel hotels, which are cutting labor costs to avoid raising room rates, amenities are being added -- with spacious rooms and often suites now available for what used to be standard rates. High-speed Internet service, high-quality bedding and fitness centers are also becoming standard in many midprice chains.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The view from a suite at the Four Seasons Hotel in Manhattan. Chains will add luxuries. (Photographs by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (96%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); RESORTS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (73%); BRAND EQUITY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); TERRORISM (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%); CHRISTMAS (50%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; AGE (CHRONOLOGICAL) 

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (92%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (58%)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (92%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) INDIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (54%); ASIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



25 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 2111 words

HEADLINE: Economy & Business; 
The Pain of Coping When a Job Is Snatched Away

BYLINE:  By JILL ANDRESKY FRASER 

 BODY:
THREE years ago, Susan Sullivan, then 34, and her husband, Peter, 44, were thriving. The couple, both marketing professionals, worked hard and enjoyed a combined income of about $250,000 a year.
 Then, within two weeks of each other in the spring of 2001, the Sullivans lost their jobs, right about the time that she became pregnant. Unable to find work, they moved from Newton, Mass., a pricey Boston suburb, to Worcester, to cut their living expenses. With job prospects slim, they began entrepreneurial ventures: she, a marketing consulting firm, and he, a computer network security firm. Their daughter is now almost two. With combined yearly earnings of about $20,000, they have cut their spending to the bone and make ends meet with food stamps and credit cards. 
 "We had about $40,000 in savings, but we spent that a long time ago," Ms. Sullivan said. "Now we owe more money in credit card bills than I ever would have believed possible. We don't spend money on anything at all that isn'ta complete necessity. Your whole way of thinking changes. The other day I was so excited: I got a credit card offer for a new card that will give us a long period with zero percent financing." 
The Sullivans are scarcely alone. There were, on average, 8.4 million unemployed Americans in 2002. By October, according to the most current statistics from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, their ranks had grown to 8.8 million. One out of every four had been looking for a job for 27 weeks or longer, up from one out of five a year earlier.
And many who are working do so only part time. In October, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 4.8 million people were involuntarily working part time -- either because they could not find full-time jobs or because their employers had put them on part-time schedules. That is up 11.6 percent, from 4.3 million a year earlier.
In recent years, the effect of widespread joblessness on consumption patterns in the United States has been tough to recognize, largely because so many people, employed as well as unemployed, have relied heavily upon credit cards, mortgage refinancings and other loans to sustain spending that might otherwise have been unaffordable. 
That spending has helped cushion the economy through some rocky times. "But the big question, moving forward, is whether we'll see enough recovery in the labor market so that income growth will be able to replace all these one-time events, like tax cuts and refinancings," Jared Bernstein, senior economist with the Economic Policy Institute in Washington, said. 
With recent rosy news about the economy's third quarter, it might be hoped that increased hiring will enable households to recover from the financial difficulties of unemployment. But interviews with men and women in a variety of careers, family situations and cities across the country suggest that even as jobs are filled, the personal economic pain for those who have long been unemployed will be long lasting. 
Consider Quay Anderson, a 30-year-old father of three young children, who lost his job as a crane operator in February. His job, which paid $16 an hour, had been the sole source of income for his family in Carlisle, Pa. Now, after going through retraining at the Regional Manufacturing Workforce Transition Center in Steelton, Pa., Mr. Anderson is on the verge of being hired as a commercial driver. But he said that it could take as long as five years of steady employment to get his family back in the financial shape they enjoyed before he lost his job.
"We've completely maxed out on credit cards and any other credit lines we had," he said. "I had a gun collection that I sold in order to raise money for groceries." The family does not spend money on anything that is not necessary. It is upsetting "when your kids want to go to Wendy's or McDonald's and you've got to say no," he said.
"We can't take them to see 'Brother Bear' in the movies," he said, "because we can't afford four movie tickets."
A close look at household spending suggests the multiplicity of ways, large and small, that the rise in unemployment in the past year or so has affected consumption patterns and the economy.
"We have a 6-year-old son, and, although it's not the end of the world, it would have been nice to give him music lessons, but we can't," said Ellen Ball, 44, of Brookline, Mass. "We don't eat out. We don't travel. I used to make charitable contributions in the past. Now I ask, when people call, 'Can I give you my time instead?"' 
Before Ms. Ball and her 42-year-old husband, Bruce Haimowitz, lost their jobs as software engineers in 2002, they earned a combined income well into the six figures. He was out of work for about a year before landing two jobs -- one part time, one full time -- that between them pay him about $45,000 a year. After looking for more than a year herself, Ms. Ball expects to start work shortly at a part-time $12-an-hour job. "We can't save," she said. "We don't entertain at all. We're in a holding pattern." 
The path out of long-term unemployment is often a part-time job or full-time work at a lower pay scale, but it is not a promising path. 
"The problem is the overarching forces that have resulted in major job losses and downward income mobility are permanent," said Stephen Roach, chief economist of Morgan Stanley. "If anything, they'll intensify, as high-wage jobs in both production and the services continue to move to countries like China and India where costs are lower. That's going to keep consumers under a lot of pressure." 
Not surprisingly, families with nest eggs and other savings have been best able to cope with prolonged joblessness and declining household earnings. As soon as Mr. Haimowitz found work, he and Ms. Ball, lifelong savers, were able to refinance their mortgage, which helped lower their monthly expenses.
Andrea, 45, and Will Gill, 50, actually traded up to a $450,000 home in Smithtown, N.Y., even after Mr. Gill, a computer network consultant, had been out of work for two years. Mrs. Gill, an online manager for a travel agency, has had three years of pay cuts. Their household income is now about a third of what it used to be. 
"We had built up equity in our old house, have always been savers, and we didn't have any credit card debt," Mr. Gill said. "Since buying the house, we can manage just by taking about $20,000 out of our savings each year. By most people's standards, we're not hurting." 
But even the Gills have cut their spending. "When our bedroom set was falling apart, we fixed it rather than buying a new one," Mrs. Gill said. During this holiday season, they expect to cut their gift-buying budget by about two-thirds.
The question for many is whether the national economy will be able to shrug off the impact of the prolonged joblessness of families like these without skipping a beat. Their spending patterns and savings cushions, after all, have remained relatively strong. But the impact on the economy may be more pronounced when it comes to those households that experienced job losses when they had little or no savings, high levels of debt, or both. For those families, financial problems have escalated, and they may pose some collective risks to the economy. 
One risk arises from households that have cashed in part or all of their retirement savings to meet day-to-day expenses. "Out here, where home prices are really high, there are a lot of couples with mortgages that only can be supported on two incomes," said Dan Rink, a career coach in Alameda, Calif. "When one spouse loses a job, it's a catastrophe. I see a lot of unemployed people who are drawing down their retirement funds just in order to make their mortgage payments." 
A more immediate high-risk decision among the unemployed is whether to give up health insurance. "It's more important for us to stay current with our mortgage payments," said Robert Love, 60, of Houston, who lost his job as a manager of safety and quality control about two years ago. Neither he nor his wife, Ann, 56, who works as a receptionist at a beauty salon, has health insurance. "Quite honestly, you try not to think about it," he said. "Just hope everyone stays healthy."
The need for such survival strategies raises the prospect that large numbers of tapped-out baby boomers will reach retirement unprepared. Jonathan Greentree, 51, of Columbus, Ohio, lost his public relations job in 2001. He is now working in a part-time $8-an-hour retailing job that will last only through the holiday season. 
Mr. Greentree has pared his budget to essentials but says he has been unable to make more than a year's worth of child-support payments for his 15-year-old son. He owes real estate taxes on his home, has depleted his savings, spent the proceeds raised from a mortgage refinancing, tapped out a line of credit and accumulated large credit card debts. 
"To be real honest, college savings have fallen by the wayside," he said. "I have very little retirement savings. It's scary. If I ever do get a job, I've got to get credit counseling because I don't know how to solve these problems."
Some people do manage to re-enter the work force and regain financial stability, but still feel anxieties. Ian Boardman, 44, of Arlington, Mass., who has a doctorate in cognitive science and experience at some dot-com start-ups, has had two different bouts of unemployment since the spring of 2001. Recently, he was hired by a research laboratory, weeks before his unemployment insurance would have run out. 
"My wife is a financial whiz who has renegotiated our mortgage twice to save money," he said. "We've been able to make do on unemployment, with a little help from our parents. We're not big on consumption anyway." 
But Mr. Boardman emphasized that he and his family lost their sense of security. "We are middle class," he said. "We're good people. And what does the system say to us? 'Sink or swim."'
The biggest question for many people is: What will happen if new job opportunities are indeed created during the recovery but do not provide enough pay and benefits to repair the financial damage caused by prolonged unemployment? 
That is a question facing Richie Calladio-Nuzzo; his wife, Jenni; and their 13-year-old daughter, Michelle, of Newton, Conn. Mr. Calladio-Nuzzo, 34, an electrician, used to earn at least $30 an hour, with benefits, in union-covered jobs. But he spent nine months during 2002 unemployed and still could not find work in the winter and spring of 2003. 
"It was really bad," he recalled. "All last winter, we kept our house heated at 58 degrees. Early on, we maxed out on our credit cards, and we couldn't keep up with the payments we owed. I don't go to the doctor at all. But when it comes to a choice between buying medicine for my wife, who has asthma, and eyeglasses for my daughter, who needs them to see, or paying the electric bill, well, we did what we could. Fortunately, the electric company can't cut you off during the winter." 
In May, Mr. Calladio-Nuzzo received permission from his union to take a nonunion job, which pays $20 an hour, and offers no benefits. 
"I'm glad to be working, but let's be real," he said. "The only impact this job has had is that I no longer have to call the phone company and electric company to make special payment arrangements. Our heater is broken upstairs, and I can't afford to bring in a plumber to fix it. We still have to screen our phone calls. A collection agency will call and say, 'Make a one-time payment of $800.' And I tell them, 'Are you kidding? If I could pay you $800, wouldn't I have just paid the $100 minimum that's due?"' 
From Mr. Calladio-Nuzzo's perspective, it is difficult to see any light at the end of the tunnel. "You think you'd enjoy it to know that you're not going through this alone," he said. "But when I see the guys that I've worked with, it's awful. We look at each other and say, 'It's never going to end."'
That is just what Pam Shira Fleetman, 55, a technical writer in Acton, Mass., fears. She has been out of work since July 2002, and recently cashed in her retirement account so she could pay enough of her overdue mortgage and property tax bills to avoid losing her house. She has "huge" credit card bills. Her car is nearly nine years old. A divorced parent, she worries that next year, when her son turns 13, she will not have any money to spend on a bar mitzvah. 
"When I think about all this," Ms. Fleetman said, "there's just one question I'd like to ask all those titans of industry who are laying people off and outsourcing all those jobs overseas: 'Who do you think you're going to be able to sell your products and services to here in the U.S.?"'

CORRECTION-DATE: December 6, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article and a picture caption on Monday in the special Outlook issue of Business Day about the effect of unemployment on families misspelled the name of the hometown of Richie Calladio-Nuzzo, who found a job at a lower wage and without benefits after being unemployed. It is Newtown, Conn., not Newton.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Susan and Peter Sullivan with their daughter, Beth, dog, Splash, and cat, Pax, at home in Worcester, Mass. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times); Richie and Jenni Calladio-Nuzzo and their daughter, Michelle, in their kitchen in Newton, Conn. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. C3); Jonathan Greentree serves as a volunteer at the 40 Plus Club in Columbus, Ohio. (Photo by Kevin Fitzsimons for The New York Times)(pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATISTICS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); CONSUMER LENDING (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (60%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (60%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (55%); ECONOMIC POLICY (50%) LABOR; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CREDIT; UNEMPLOYMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CREDIT 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (50%) FRASER, JILL ANDRESKY 

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



26 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Outlook; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Economy & Business; 
Retailers Seeking to Lure Customers With Service

BYLINE:  By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
NOT so long ago, the world of retailing thought of itself as more than just a series of transactions. The face-to-face encounter involved in the exchange of money for goods and services contributed to human progress. As one 18th-century British consumer, Lady Caroline Lennox, put it, shopping was more than just instant gratification: it was a "rational exercise, a commitment to the civilizing powers of trade."
 Fast forward to Bangalore, India, circa 2003, where headset-wearing customer-service workers sitting in tidy rows address the concerns of American consumers calling in from places like Des Moines, seeking help with their dysfunctional computers, their balky DVD players or the Barbie dolls that never arrived in the mail. Such outsourcing is the latest, low-cost iteration of customer service, meant to soothe, to solve and to generate more business -- though one may doubt that telephone calls have the same "civilizing powers" as personal contact. 
 The Bangalore workers speak English well, and to deal effectively with the idioms of daily life, they have been subjected to hours of taped "Friends" episodes and to "Oprah." They are much cheaper than American customer-service experts, though those do, in fact, still exist. Las Vegas, for example, is the home of dozens of call centers. 
"Companies are becoming acutely focused on improving their relationships with existing customers," said Amit Shankardass, vice president for marketing and product development at Client Logic, a company in Nashville that hires customer service workers for makers of electronics, computers, toys and other products. 
The trend toward more low-cost customer service is expected to continue. Retailers are rediscovering the usefulness of customer service, whether face to face or across the phone lines, as a point of differentiation from their competitors. Sales clerks can increase sales by being extra friendly and helpful with the customers they already have, and then pleased customers can be expected to build the store's reputation. At the Gap, for instance, clerks are being given twice as much training as in the past and are encouraged to help customers plan outfits that could mean more items rung up on the register.
Lately, providing good service has also become a matter of technology, as customers increasingly seek speed and efficiency in their shopping. Sears, Roebuck recently put kiosks in a pilot store in Utah where customers can try to find answers to their questions and can push a button to summon a sales clerk if they cannot. Wal-Mart, meanwhile, has installed self-checkout lanes in some stores to speed customers through the final stage of shopping. Where customers once felt affronted by these innovations, retail surveys increasingly show that they appreciate the convenience the machines offer.
Customers who find themselves newly coddled by a store's sales staff can thank the folks in Bentonville, Ark., home of Wal-Mart Stores, at least in part. As Wal-Mart, with its no-frills, stack-it-high and sell-it-cheap approach to merchandising, has advanced across the turf once dominated by department stores and specialty stores, those stores see improved customer service as one way of persuading shoppers to stick with them even if they do charge more. 
"Try as they might, they don't have the buying power to meet Wal-Mart on cost and prices," said Kusum Ailawadi, associate professor for business administration at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth. "So one of the things they can do, along with improving the product assortment, is improving customer service in the stores."
NEW England grocery stores that quailed at the thought of competing against Wal-Mart have discovered this for themselves, she added. Hannaford Brothers, a regional chain in Scarborough, Me., zeroed in on customers a year or two ago, querying them about what they might like to see in their stores. How the chain responded may have helped it not only survive, but move ahead. 
"You see a very significant expansion of their organic and natural food sections," Professor Ailawadi said. "They are improving their farm-fresh produce, doing the kinds of things that Wal-Mart would find harder to imitate." 
The standard bearers for old-fashioned customer service in retail include L.L. Bean, the 81-year-old retailer based in Freeport, Me., which guarantees all items "for the useful life of the product," as its return-and-repair policy reads. But some newer retailers have come up with aggressively accommodating policies as well. Popular among retailers is the proactive approach, in which customers are served so well and thoroughly that they leave the store with purchases they had not intended to make when they entered. 
At City Express, a Boston courier company, executives created the post of customer-relations manager 18 months ago to better monitor customer service, Aaron Driben, the president, said. Does it cost more to add the position? Mr. Driben said it did. "But whatever it cost me would be far less than the cost of losing a client," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CUSTOMER SERVICE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); TEST MARKETING (77%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); SALES FORCE (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (75%); CALL CENTERS (75%); ELECTRONICS (74%); TRENDS (71%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (69%); CD & DVD DRIVES (54%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (51%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (51%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (51%)

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L 

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



27 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column1; Outlook; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: A Portrait by the Numbers; 
Consumer Dominance Hits a54-Year High

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
In the early years of the 21st Century, consumers have accounted for more than two-thirds of spending in this country, their greatest share in more than half a century.
 In the first nine months of this year, that share came to 67.2 percent, slightly ahead of 2002. Not since the consumer spending boom that followed World War II have consumers spent so energetically. Then they were reflecting pent-up demand after years when production capacity was shifted to war materiel. 
 Last week's revision of third-quarter growth figures provided the welcome news that other parts of the economy -- notably business investment -- are starting to pick up, so the consumer share may have reached a peak for now.
The larger share of the economy for consumers has recently signaled the strength of consumer demand, but that was not always the case. In 1932 the proportion hit a record 82.8 percent. But the reason was not that consumers were spending so much -- their spending fell 12 percent from the year before -- but that there was so little investment spending as the economy hit bottom in the Depression.
How we spend our money now is very different from the spending patterns back in 1949, the last time personal consumption expenditures accounted for as large a share of the economy as they do now.
The charts below show how much of each $1,000 in personal consumption spending goes for various things. In 1949, $700 went for the most basic of life's necessities: food, clothing and housing. Now the figure for those three categories is down to $458.
That decline has been a steady one, freeing up more money for a myriad of other things. The figure fell below $600 in 1971 and went under $500 in 1993. The last year the figure rose was 1974, when the economy was in the worst recession since the Great Depression. Since then there have been four recessions, but they have not been so severe that consumers cut back enough on other things to push up the proportion of consumer spending devoted to the three necessities.
Of those three, housing is the only one that has come close to maintaining its share of the American pocketbook. But that statistic is deceiving, because Americans expect a lot more now when buying houses, whether it is the number of bathrooms and bedrooms, or the things that are purchased to keep the household running. We get a lot more housing than we used to, even while spending about the same proportion of our available money.
The charts below are on widely varying scales; the objective is not to compare different categories of spending but to show how the share of consumer spending devoted to each category has grown bigger or smaller. A declining line may not mean less is being spent on an item; it could indicate that spending in that category is growing at a slower rate than overall spending is rising.
The category with the biggest surge in consumer spending is medical care. Before World War II, less than $50 of each $1,000 went into medical care. This year, the figure is $190.
The government has kept more detailed figures since 1959 than it did before then, so some of the more detailed charts go back only thatfar. Just in that period, there have been big shifts in where medical spending is going. 
There is no better sign of the aging of the population than the fact that just $1 of each $1,000 went into spending on nursing homes in 1959, compared with $12 now. Hospital spending has also soared, more than tripling its share of consumer spending.
Doctors more than doubled their share, but their gains did not match those of prescription drugs, whose share almost quadrupled.
In the late 1990's, as managed care plans tried to control spending, the shares of hospitals, nursing homes, doctors and other health care professionals all slipped a bit, although all have since resumed their climb. But the share of prescription drugs has grown in every year since 1977.
Such statistics do not show whether consumers are getting their money's worth, but they do help to indicate why the cost of prescription drugs has become a political issue.
The government separates clothing expenses by sex, and few will be surprised to learn that women spend more on clothes than men. The gap narrowed from 1986 through 1998, but since then women's share of clothing spending has been rising.
Those figures do not include shoes, or the category of jewelry and watches, which the government tabulates without regard for whether they are for men or women. One measure of growing affluence is that as recently as 1965 we spent twice as much on shoes as on jewelry and watches. Now we spend 10 percent less on shoes.
Another area that has slipped is what the government calls "user-operated transportation," largely the cost of buying and operating cars and light trucks. It now takes $106 of every $1,000 we spend, down from a peak of $127 in 1985. Gas and oil for cars account for $24 of that, down from $50 in 1981.
Air travel grew rapidly in the 1960's and 1970's, but its share of spending peaked in 1980 and has now fallen to its lowest level since 1967. Traditional airlines are finding it difficult to cope with that decline.
Since 1997, the share of consumer spending going to conventional telephone service, local and long distance combined, has plunged. Even with the rising popularity of cellphones, the total share of consumer spending devoted to phone service reached a peak in 1999.
Similarly, the share of spending going to computers and software peaked in 2000. The subsequent declines came as a costly surprise to many investors.
Discerning where the money will go next is not easy. But some trends seem likely to continue: Cable and satellite television get more each year, and so does education. But alcohol gets less.
And here is one fact some might find discouraging. Last year, for the first time ever, Americans lost more money in legal gambling than they spent on printed material -- books, magazines and newspapers -- combined.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the personal consumption expenditures as a percent of gross domestic product, excluding net exports since 1930. Chart:Food and clothing cost less, health care costs moreOver time, the way people live -- and spend money -- has evolved. Here are some of the areas in which spending habits have changed. Some govern-ment data go back to 1929, but more detailed breakdowns go back only to 1959. Graph tracks the spending per $1,000 of personal consumption expenditures, 2003 figures are through first three quarters, for the following: FOODALCOHOLTOBACCOHEALTH CAREOTHER MEDICAL PROFESSIONALSPRESCRIPTION DRUGSDOCTORSNURSING HOMESHOSPITALSCLOTHING (MEN & WOMEN) Outlays for education and donations have climbed, but housing has slipped Graph tracks the spending per $1,000 of personal consumption expenditures, 2003 figures are through first three quarters, for the following: EDUCATIONHOUSING OCCUPANCY COSTS (Includes such things as furniture, household appliances, utilities and phone service.)HOUSING RENT OR RENT EQUIVALENT FOR HOMEOWNERSRELIGION, POLITICS AND CHARITY (Note: Details not available prior to 1959)USER-OPERATED TRANSPORTATIONPURCHASING VEHICLESGAS AND OILOTHER (Includes repairs, insurance and rentals) Consumer priorities have changed Graph tracks the spending per $1,000 of personal consumption expenditures, 2003 figures are through first three quarters, for the following: COMPUTERSBETTING ON HORSE RACES, DOG RACES, ETC.CASINOSLOTTERIESCABLE AND SATELLITE TVGUNSINTERNET ACCESSCELLULAR TELEPHONEHOME TELEPHONESNEWSPAPERSMAGAZINES AND SHEET MUSICBOOKS AND MAPSSHOESPET FOODPETS AND PET SERVICESJEWELRY AND WATCHESAIRLINE TICKETSTOYS, DOLLS AND GAMES (Source by Bureau of Economic Analysis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); WORLD WAR II (71%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



28 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Economy & Business; 
Competition Keeps Up as Air Travel Returns

BYLINE:  By JOE SHARKEY 

 BODY:
GETTING from Point A to Point B this holiday season is likely to take more time than usual, and that situation will probably not improve much in 2004, travel industry experts say.
 Air travel has been depressed in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, leaving airports relatively uncrowded and allowing the most frequent fliers, hard-pressed business travelers, to arrive at the airport an hour or less in advance and still get through security and sip a cup of coffee before boarding. 
 Now, air travel is beginning to recover a bit, and this holiday season is expected to be the busiest since 2000, with the gains likely to continue through next year. 
In 2004, barring a new terrorist attack or some other disruption, the Travel Industry Association of America predicts domestic spending on leisure and business travel will total $568 billion. That would be the first year-over-year increase since 2000, when travel reached $590 billion. 
According to the American Express Leisure Travel Index, the number of American travelers who say they expect to spend more than $5,000 on vacations in the next 12 months has nearly doubled over the year, from 6 percent to 11 percent of adults surveyed. The number who say they expect to fly domestically and internationally next year is up 12 percent, American Express said.
That would mean more congestion at airport-security checkpoints -- where there are fewer federal screeners to keep things moving. In March, the Transportation Security Administration had 55,600 airport security screeners. By October, cost cutting had reduced that work force to 48,279.
"Passengers should come early and allow even more time during the holiday season, especially if they're checking bags," said Jason Schechter, a spokesman for United Airlines, a unit of the UAL Corporation. 
According to OAG, the publisher of airline schedule data, domestic airlines are putting a million more seats in the skies this holiday season than a year earlier. Industry analysts predict that airlines will increase capacity 5 percent to 10 percent in the first quarter of 2004 over the same period a year earlier, while hoping that the move does not trigger widespread fare wars. But even with the extra seats this holiday season, domestic airlines will still be flying 13.5 percent fewer seats than they did from Thanksgiving through New Year's Day in 2000, OAG said.
The reduced capacity underscores the trouble faced by the airlines, especially the so-called network carriers -- American Airlines, United Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Northwest Airlines, Continental Airlines and US Airways -- which are struggling with high fixed costs to compete, often in the same markets, with low-fare carriers with lower operating costs, like Southwest Airlines, JetBlue Airways, AirTran Airways, Frontier Airlines and others. 
The bottom line, said Michael Boyd, an airline consultant, is that, despite the gains this quarter, "fewer people are flying, and they're paying less for their tickets" than in 2000, the peak year for travel. In 2000, domestic airlines carried 567 million passengers, according to the federal Bureau of Transportation Statistics, compared with 542 million last year.
In November, average fares were about 5 percent to 10 percent higher than last year's fire-sale levels. But airlines looking for quick market share are starting fare sales in competitive markets, and the trend is likely to continue, experts say. 
Meanwhile, air service will decline, as some airlines abandon unprofitable service in small cities, causing a "wrenching change in the way some people fly," Mr. Boyd added. Even some larger cities are under the gun. In Pittsburgh, cutbacks by US Airways, owned by the US Airways Group, are expected to reduce passenger traffic significantly next year. In St. Louis, American Airlines, a unit of the AMR Corporation, recently cut its daily flights in half, to about 200 from about 400. Low-fare airlines have said they might replace some, but not all, the lost traffic at such airports.
For some people, flying is not worth the trouble. "I used to get on a plane at a moment's notice," said Larry Josephson, a longtime public radio producer and program host who lives in New York City. "Now it's always a hassle at the airport, and the airlines are all banging you with extra fees: $100 to make a change; $75 extra for an overweight bag. I finally said the hell with it. I just don't fly anymore."
The airlines are trying to woo back lost passengers, and one way is to give better seats and service in coach to passengers who pay more for tickets. This year, both Delta and Continental moved aggressively in that direction. With planes now taking off with their cabins more full than at any time since 1970, passengers on cheap fares are especially likely to be stuck in the dreaded middle seat. "The question we keep asking is: Are we truly recognizing the customer that's providing us with the most revenue?" said Robert Borden, the director for Delta's SkyMiles program. 
Competitors at low-fare airlines -- which have increased their share of the domestic market to 28 percent from 10 percent in the early 1990's -- scoff that when the major carriers slight the legions of cheap-ticket fliers, they are driving more customers their way. But Gordon M. Bethune, Continental's chief executive, argued that it was more important to retain loyal customers than to appeal exclusively to the bargain hunters, whom he described as "people who don't know us and bought their tickets on Priceline or one of those other outlets, and who don't care who they're flying as long as they're flying whoever is cheapest." The loyal customers, over time, will fly a variety of fares from the cheapest to the top-priced when they must make a last-minute ticket purchase.
But some discount airlines have leapt on the opportunity to give bargain-hunters a higher level of service. One is JetBlue Airways, which began operations three years ago and is now the second-largest carrier at Kennedy International Airport. JetBlue accounts for 20 percent of traffic on the highly profitable routes between New York and Los Angeles and New York and San Francisco, its chief executive, David Neeleman, said.
As passengers on major airlines griped about cattle-car conditions, JetBlue increased its fleet's seat pitch to provide three inches to four inches more leg room than competitors, and service is emphasized to flight crews.
ONE way the airlines are coping with reduced travel is to emphasize their most profitable routes and services. The walk-up fares for roundtrip business class between New York and London, for example, average about $7,600, and there is far less price resistance at the upscale end of the market than at the low end, although, with all the competition, airlines in November were discounting even those fares. 
More than a dozen airlines, including several domestic carriers, spent several billion dollars this year to redesign first-class and business-class cabins with such amenities as plush sleeper seats and entertainment systems with on-demand movies and other selections for those sipping Champagne in the front of the planes.
Virgin Atlantic Airways, which recently spent $100 million on a plush redesign of its upper class cabins, said recently that it had seen a 10 percent increase in traffic in those seats from August through October, over the comparable period last year. "For the first time in months the early signs are that better times lay ahead," said Sir Richard Branson, the founder and chairman of the Virgin Group, which includes the airline.
At those prices? Sure, said Zachary Coffin, an investment adviser in Los Angeles who flew about 250,000 miles a year on business before he opened his own firm and stayed closer to home this year.
"People pay it," he said. "If I've suddenly got to be in London 24 hours from now, I'm going to be on an airline that does it right. There's a real psychological thing that comes into play when you start getting into business-class travel. Unless your company is really cheap, if you're at a certain place in the corporate world, you're able to say, 'I sacrifice enough in my life in the road; I'm only going to fly business class. If it's $7,600, so be it -- that's what it costs."'

GRAPHIC: Photos: Virgin Atlantic Airways recently spent $100 million to redesign its upper-class cabins, and says it has seen a 10 percent increase in traffic in those tickets compared with a year earlier. (Photographs by Michell V. Agins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); AIR FARES (89%); AIRLINES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); AVIATION SECURITY (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); THANKSGIVING (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); PRICE CUTTING (69%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TERRORISM; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (84%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (82%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (55%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (55%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (54%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (54%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%); US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (54%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (84%); UAL (NYSE) (82%); AXP (NYSE) (55%); LCC (NYSE) (55%); DAL (NYSE) (54%); LUV (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%)

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



29 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW; 
Outsiders Bond in a South of Roiling Change

BYLINE:  By BEN BRANTLEY 

 BODY:
The plot hinges on the division of small amounts of pocket money -- nickles, dimes, even pennies. But there is nothing cheap or loose about "Caroline, or Change," the carefully wrought chamber opera by Tony Kushner and Jeanine Tesori.
 In temperament, this impeccably performed show, which opened last night at the Public Theater under the direction of George C. Wolfe, is much like its title character, a black maid for a Jewish family in Louisiana in 1963. Played with commanding self-containment by Tonya Pinkins, Caroline Thibodeaux is a stoical, uncompromising woman. 
 As a worker and mother, she conscientiously does her duty. But she is equally conscientious in refusing to unbend, to truckle or paste on an insincere smile. That she has the courage of her convictions is what keeps her from falling apart. It is also what keeps her from finding emotional freedom. She is, as the show's lyrics have it, "the queen of keep-at-bay." 
A similar strain of self-denial runs through this latest offering from Mr. Kushner, the prodigiously talented dramatist whose award-wreathed "Angels in America" has been adapted as a movie for HBO, with a premiere on Sunday. As directed by Mr. Wolfe, who staged "Angels" on Broadway, "Caroline" steadfastly resists easy opportunities to work its audience into a lather.
The show deals with, among other things, the relationship between a weary black housekeeper and a motherless white boy; the growing civil rights movement; and the assassination of President John F. Kennedy -- subjects traditionally guaranteed to push New York theatergoers' mist-up buttons.
Yet Ms. Tesori's deliberately fragmented sung-through score avoids the usual anthems of uplift and self-empowerment, while Mr. Kushner's libretto refuses to sentimentalize or exalt its heroine. The tone throughout is of even-handed, slightly distanced compassion, as people of different classes are revealed as pawns of a corrupting economic structure.
Though "Caroline" has a first-rate cast, including Veanne Cox and a refreshingly direct child actor named Harrison Chad, you may find you appreciate the show more in retrospect than while you're watching it. In ambition and achievement, "Caroline" handily tops any new musical this fall. (I am not including "Avenue Q," which opened in the summer.) But in truth, it is almost too good to be good.
"Caroline" might be regarded as the brooding person's "Hairspray," the Broadway hit that also considers integration in the early 1960's. In "Hairspray," no social ill is so vicious that it can't be worked out in an "American Bandstand"-style dance-a-thon. It is a point of honor that the change suggested in the title of Mr. Kushner's musical is incremental and incomplete. Song in "Caroline" reflects troubling thoughts; it does not purge them.
Tellingly, both productions feature Supremes-like trios who pop up as figures of fantasy. In "Hairspray," these sleek singers advise that a girl just needs a new dress to outfox the blues. In "Caroline," the vocalists (played by Tracy Nicole Chapman, Marva Hicks and Ramona Keller) look just as glamorous and sing as seductively, but in -- shall we say? -- a more minor key. "Melt the hairspray in your hair," they croon in the radio of Caroline's mind as she does laundry. "Turn it on, turn on despair."
In structure, "Caroline" evokes American short stories of four and five decades ago, written by masters like William Maxwell and Peter Taylor -- tales hazy with retrospective guilt, in which a white child of privilege unwittingly betrays someone he loves from another class.
In "Caroline," this relationship is reincarnated by 9-year-old Noah Gellman (Mr. Chad) -- whose mother recently died of cancer and whose clarinet-playing father (David Costabile) is unreachably remote -- and Caroline, the family maid. Mr. Kushner widens the story's social focus to create a Marxist economics lesson.
The root of the plot is money, part of the punning "change" of the title. Noah's habit of leaving coins in his pants pockets annoys Rose (Ms. Cox), his new stepmother, who declares that Caroline can keep whatever money she finds in the laundry. 
The ensuing domestic crisis, built to by painstaking degrees, becomes a whispered echo of larger currents of social change roiling the South. And the production makes it clear that everyone in Caroline's world is warped by an awareness of money, from her three luxury-hungry children (Anika Noni Rose, Kevin Ricardo Tate and Marcus Carl Franklin) to Rose's old-style socialist father (Larry Keith).
Not that "Caroline" is all textbook realism. The show also features a whimsical assortment of anthropomorphic creatures, reminders that Mr. Kushner recently collaborated on a book with that immortal of children's literature, Maurice Sendak. These include a singing washing machine (Capathia Jenkins), dryer (Chuck Cooper) and radio (those Supremes-like gals) to articulate Caroline's unspoken desires and resentments.
A mournful bus (Mr. Cooper) shows up to announce the death of President Kennedy. And most spectacularly -- and intrusively -- there's the Moon (Adriane Lenox), who looks like Josephine Baker via Maxfield Parrish and floats onstage to comment on the changeable nature of change.
This blend of reality and annotative fantasy is rigorously, sometimes cumbersomely carried through in the set (Riccardo Hernandez), lighting (Jules Fisher and Peggy Eisenhauer) and costumes (Paul Tazewell). The set, which often places images of domestic affluence and poverty in counterpoint, also underscores the show's sense of distance, as Mr. Wolfe struggles to balance the panoramic with the personal.
Ms. Tesori's postmodern collage of a score, which quotes everything from Motown to Mozart, is excellent in capturing the swirl and disjunction of patterns of thought. (She makes especially witty use of Christmas and Hannukah music.) But there's an outsider's perspective to much of "Caroline," as if its characters were, above all, pieces of historical evidence to be assessed.
As the author of "Angels" and "Homebody/Kabul," Mr. Kushner is an opulent writer whose prose ravishes and dizzies. As a lyricist, he is more efficient and calculated. Slyly eliciting different meanings from words like underground, flat and, yes, change, he proves that you don't need a fancy vocabulary to create intellectually complex effects.
But he spends too much time explaining his characters, via story-of-my-life arias and bald declarations, when it would be preferable to let us discover them on our own. The cast -- which also includes Alice Playten and Reathel Bean as Noah's grandparents and Chandra Wilson as Caroline's skeptical friend -- is not to be faulted.
They all, including the usually flamboyant Ms. Cox, turn in intelligently measured performances that never beg for affection or attention. And as Caroline's teenage daughter, a harbinger of a new era in politics, Ms. Rose is lovely, providing an appropriate and welcome suggestion of a more fully lived life.
A Tony Award winner for "Jelly's Last Jam," Ms. Pinkins has never been better than she is here, in an intense, controlled performance that somehow always hints at the currents of rage and helplessness beneath Caroline's rigid dignity. Even when confessing her weaknesses to God, she remains formidable. You can see why Noah would idolize her. And Ms. Pinkins and Mr. Chad expertly convey their characters' bond as outsiders without even skirting mawkishness.
Their scenes together would benefit from being expanded, though, with more than the synoptic detail that exists now. (She lets him light her daily cigarette.) As it is, you clearly and soberly see their places in the judiciously arranged social canvas of "Caroline." But the show would have so much more power and pain if these ambivalent friends claimed the foreground for themselves.

CAROLINE, OR CHANGE
Book and lyrics by Tony Kushner; music by Jeanine Tesori; directed by George C. Wolfe; sets by Riccardo Hernandez; costumes by Paul Tazewell; lighting by Jules Fisher and Peggy Eisenhauer; sound by Jon Weston; hair design by Jeffrey Frank; orchestrations, Rick Bassett, Joseph Joubert and Buryl Red; music supervisor, Kimberly Grigsby; music director and conductor, Linda Twine; choreography by Hope Clarke; production stage manager, Rick Steiger; managing director, Michael Hurst. Presented by the Public Theater, Mr. Wolfe, producer; Mara Manus, executive director. At the Newman Theater in the Joseph Papp Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village.

WITH: Tonya Pinkins (Caroline Thibodeaux); Capathia Jenkins (the Washing Machine); Harrison Chad (Noah Gellman); Chuck Cooper (the Dryer, the Bus); Tracy Nicole Chapman, Marva Hicks and Ramona Keller (the Radio); Alice Playten (Grandma Gellman); Reathel Bean (Grandpa Gellman); Veanne Cox (Rose Stopnick Gellman); David Costabile (Stuart Gellman); Anika Noni Rose (Emmie); Kevin Ricardo Tate (Jackie); Marcus Carl Franklin (Joe); Larry Keith (Mr. Stopnick); Adriane Lenox (the Moon); Chandra Wilson (Dotty Moffett).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tonya Pinkins as a weary maid in "Caroline, or Change," with fantasy characters who express her inner rage. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E5); Tonya Pinkins and Harrison Chad in "Caroline, or Change." (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); OPERA (89%); THEATER (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); FILM (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (71%); FILM DIRECTORS (71%); ASSASSINATION (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%) THEATER; REVIEWS 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%) BRANTLEY, BEN; KUSHNER, TONY; TESORI, JEANINE; WOLFE, GEORGE C; PINKINS, TONYA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: CAROLINE, OR CHANGE (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



30 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-13

Intense Shootout in Iraq: 46 Guerrillas Killed
American soldiers killed 46 guerrillas in fiery shootouts in central Iraq, the largest battle in the country since coalition forces toppled Saddam Hussein's regime. At least 18 of the attackers were wounded and eight captured, the military said. No Americans were killed, but five soldiers and one civilian were wounded. A1

For two years before the American invasion of Iraq, Saddam Hussein was engaged in lengthy negotiations with North Korea, with the apparent goal of obtaining a full production line to manufacture, under an Iraqi flag, the North Korean missile system. A1

The Iraqi Governing Council agreed by a unanimous vote that full national elections would be the best way to choose an interim government. A11

Syrian Call for U.S. Involvement
President Bashar al-Assad of Syria called for the United States to use its influence to revive negotiations between his country and Israel, saying neglecting the dispute was a prime example of the Bush administration's preaching of visionary change without adopting practical measures to attain it. A1

WHO Program for AIDS Drugs
The World Health Organization called on developing countries to train and organize 100,000 health care and non-professional workers to begin delivering antiretroviral drugs to 3 million AIDS patients by the end of 2005. The plan is to cost at least $5.5 billion. A9

India has decided to substantially expand its program to provide antiretroviral therapy to people with H.I.V. and AIDS. A6

China Frees 3 Dissidents
The Chinese government has released three jailed "cyber dissidents," including a young college student whose arrest a year ago brought international condemnation. The move comes as Prime Minister Wen Jiabao is preparing to visit the United States. A3

NATIONAL A14-21

Amid Dying Rural Plains, Towns Fight to Survive
Polls show a quiet crisis in confidence in a broad swath of the nation's midsection, which has steadily lost much of its population for 70 years. People feel powerless and pessimistic about the future, according to the annual University of Nebraska poll of rural attitudes. A1

Small farmers nationwide are trying to adapt to the mixed blessing of modern industrial farming, which has devastated rural livelihoods even as it has increased crop yields. A19

Aiding Abuse Prosecutions
Changes in California state law have made it easier to prosecute child molesting cases, legal scholars and veteran prosecutors said. The laws could give prosecutors a stronger hand in the Michael Jackson case. A17

Steel Tarriff Repeal Is Expected
President Bush is expected to announce that he will lift most of the tariffs he placed on foreign steel, bowing to a ruling that his administration had violated global trading rules, industry officials said. A14

Housing Case Considers Bias
A Baltimore tenants' lawsuit against city and federal officials is going to federal court today. They accuse officials of creating a system of racially segregated rental units. A20

Clark Offers AIDS Plan
Gen. Wesley K. Clark, seeking to flesh out his policy agenda, will propose doubling to $30 billion the United States' financial commitment to fighting AIDS and other diseases in the developing world. A20

Liberal Radio Readies for Air
A Democratic investment group that is planning to start a liberal radio network says it is close to buying radio stations in five major cities. A20

OBITUARIES B7

Gertrude Ederle
The first woman to swim across the English Channel was 98. B7

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Coming to New York City, At Least to Its Waterfront
The House majority leader, Tom DeLay, wants a luxury ship to serve as a floating entertainment center during the Republican National Convention next summer. But the idea has infuriated a cross section of New Yorkers, who feel the ship will lure V.I.P.'s away from the city. A1

Reviving Borough Hall
The Brooklyn borough president, Marty Markowitz, is seeking to refashion Brooklyn Borough Hall, a stately but largely defunct government building, into a place that people actually use. B1

311, a Handy Tool
The city's 311 hot line has become a vehicle for city officials to re-examine how city agencies carry out their jobs. A1

An Unlikely Rental Bargain
Though the stately avenues of Fifth and Park are as exclusive and expensive as ever, the Upper East Side has some of the most reasonable rents in the city. B1

Neediest Cases B4

SPORTSMONDAY D1-9

ARTS E1-8

Theater Company in Trouble
The Royal Shakespeare Company, Britain's best-known theater troupe, is $4.4 million in debt, has abandoned its longtime London theater and average attendance at its productions has fallen below 70 percent of capacity. E1

'Haunted Mansion' Is Top Film
The movie box office was dominated by family films on Thanksgiving weekend, with Eddie Murphy's spooky comedy, "The Haunted Mansion," finishing as the No. 1 movie, just ahead of Mike Myers's "Dr. Seuss' the Cat in the Hat," according to studio estimates. E5

BUSINESS DAY C1-24

Nephew of Disney Resigns
Roy E. Disney, above left, nephew of Walt Disney, said he was leaving the Disney board and called for the resignation of chairman and chief executive Michael D. Eisner. Mr. Disney complained in a letter that Mr. Eisner had done little to revive the company. A1

Uncertain Shopping Results
Estimates of post-Thanksgiving retail sales ranged from flat to modest gains, leaving many merchants hoping that things will pick up. A16

Americans Find Many Needs
Americans feel they must spend. More than in the past, the necessities of life, real and perceived, eat up incomes, which translates to good news for the economy. Experts say they will continue spending, going deeper into debt if they must. C1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: The U.N.'s challenge in Iraq; fresh produce, the downside; Verlyn Klinkenborg on the hunt for coal-bed methane in Wyoming.

Column: William Safire.

Autos D11
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E8
TV Listings E7
Crossword E8
Weather B9

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); IRAQ WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CHILD ABUSE (72%); HEALTH CARE (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); ANTIVIRALS (71%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (70%); ARRESTS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); LITIGATION (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (55%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (82%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); WEN JIABAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (96%); CHINA (92%); SYRIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



31 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Eisner's 19 Years At Walt Disney 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
 1984 -- Michael D. Eisner, 42, becomes chairman and chief executive of the Walt Disney Company. He enters with a wellspring of support; Steven Spielberg and Jim Henson were among those in Hollywood who lobbied for him to get the job, and Roy E. Disney, a board member and Walt Disney's nephew, played a crucial role in his recruitment. Mr. Eisner had recently been passed over for the top job at Paramount Pictures. He appoints Jeffrey Katzenberg to run the studio.

1987 -- With the help of the holiday blockbuster, "Three Men and a Baby," Disney's movie studio becomes the second-biggest in Hollywood. It was ninth when Mr. Eisner took over.

1990 -- Mr. Eisner is paid more than $10 million even as Disney's stock drops and the country falls into a recession.

1992 -- Euro Disneyland, the new theme park, opens in Marne la Vallee, France. The expansion of theme parks, resorts and retail products give the company more than eight times the profit it reported in 1984.

1994 -- Frank Wells, Mr. Eisner's deputy since he took over, dies in a helicopter crash in April. Three months later, Mr. Eisner undergoes emergency heart surgery, and investors wonder who will ultimately succeed him. Before the summer ends, Mr. Katzenberg resigns, having been denied the No. 2 post by Mr. Eisner. The two begin a messy, public fight that ends in court.

1995 -- Disney reports the acquisition of Capital Cities/ABC for $19 billion, then the second-largest takeover, in July. Two weeks later, Mr. Eisner names Michael S. Ovitz, the powerful Hollywood agent, as his deputy.

1996 -- After clashing with Mr. Eisner for much of his 14 month tenure, Mr. Ovitz resigns.

1997 -- "The Lion King" opens on Broadway. It will sell more than $300 million worth of tickets by 2003.

1999 -- Company profits have fallen more than one-third in two years, and Mr. Eisner begins a public relations campaign aimed at persuading his critics on Wall Street that he remains the best man to run Disney.

2001 -- Disney abandons Go.com, which executives had envisioned as a rival to America Online and Yahoo. The company loses money during a fiscal year for the first time during Mr. Eisner's tenure.

2002 -- ABC sinks to fourth place in network television ratings, and theme park attendance and movie ticket sales slump. Disney's stock drops below $14, less than one-third what it was at its peak in 2000. Mr. Eisner makes changes to the board's structure, responding to investors' criticism that it was not sufficiently independent.

2003 -- ABC's ratings rise. Mr. Eisner pushes Andrea Van de Kamp off the board after she sides with Mr. Disney and Stanley P. Gold, two directors who publicly criticized him. The company reports $1.27 billion in profits for the fiscal year, 35 percent less than it made six years earlier. Mr. Disney resigns from the board. DAVID LEONHARDT

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (86%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (76%); TICKET SALES (70%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (69%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (52%); HELICOPTERS (51%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (51%) 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); EURO DISNEY SCA (56%); ABC INC (54%); GO.COM (52%); AOL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%); EDL (PAR) (56%); AOL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%) SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION; 

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (72%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (58%) EISNER, MICHAEL D; DISNEY, ROY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



32 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: TALKING SHOP WITH: Zoe Lazarus and Richard Welch; 
Hunting for the Next Cool in Advertising

BYLINE:  By STUART ELLIOTT 

 BODY:
THE question haunting Madison Avenue these days is, to paraphrase Sigmund Freud, "What do consumers want?" As changes in demographics and lifestyles accelerate, consumer behavior is becoming increasingly difficult to predict. More people are surfing the Web, fewer are watching the tube. And a many are becoming more skeptical toward advertising in general. 
 As a result, advertising agencies are scrambling to understand and predict consumer behavior, the better to serve their marketer clients. The goal is to identify and forecast trends and patterns before they enter the mainstream and become obvious. 
 Tracking trends is a significant new task for agencies, says Tony Wright, strategy director at Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide in New York, the WPP Group agency that creates campaigns for consumer-centric brands like American Express, Dove, Maxwell House, Miller Lite and Sprite. For that reason, Ogilvy has joined rivals like DDB Worldwide and Euro RSCG Worldwide in offering clients a specialty in trend tracking. 
In October, Ogilvy formed a worldwide consulting division under Mr. Wright called Crystal, being led by two managing directors: Zoe Lazarus, 32, based in London, and Richard Welch, 30, based in New York. (Ms. Lazarus is no relation to Shelly Lazarus, chairwoman and chief executive of Ogilvy.) The name "reflected clarity, which is what we are all about," Mr. Welch said.
In an interview, Ms. Lazarus and Mr. Welch discussed tracking initiatives and some trends they are watching.
Following are excerpts from that conversation:
Q. Why has trend tracking become such a trend? Or is it just a fad? A lot of the so-called cool hunters, self-styled experts at spotting trends among younger consumers, seem to be fading away. 
Ms. Lazarus: It has maybe been a bit of a fad, but the ideas behind it make good sense. It's good to have advance-warning radar about what's happening among consumers.
Perhaps there is a danger with having to continuously come up with new ideas. Leading-edge trends change, but not every month. Some have longevity.
Mr. Welch: A lot of "cool hunters" were just buying stuff new and interesting and bringing it back to companies and saying, "This is a trend." You need to dig deeper, look behind these things, look at the drivers, why it's occurring.
Ms. Lazarus: Otherwise it's just random new ideas.
Q. Could you describe some of the major reasons marketers need to have trend watchers?
Mr. Welch: You want to build empathy between your brand and the people you're selling to. If you don't try to tap into how they spend their time, who they are, it's just another brand. If you don't understand the changes they undergo, you can't communicate effectively with them. And it's not necessarily right for every brand, every product, every category. It has to have resonance with the brand and the brand values.
Ms. Lazarus: You're looking for leading-edge trends that will eventually filter into the mainstream in one to two years' time, changing patterns in leisure behavior, holiday destinations, music choices, as well as fashion trends.
Mr. Welch: It's important to look at the periphery, because that's where trends start. 
Ms. Lazarus and Mr. Welch (almost in unison): Piercing, tattoos, the Internet.
Q: How does trend tracking help marketers as they seek to reach consumers in nontraditional ways?
Ms. Lazarus: There's the rise of word-of-mouth influence on marketing communications. It's really something quite significant for the whole industry. How do you fuel positive word of mouth? You have to be more inventive, come up with more imaginative strategies.
Studying leading-edge cultures can give you inspiration, ways of targeting key people for fueling word of mouth: the tastemakers, the influential people. 
Mr. Welch: It's also important because of the idea among consumers that if you discover something, you own it. Discovery is now a big part of marketing. If you find out about something that's not in the mainstream, you like to disseminate the information yourself, because it gives you kudos with your peer group, whether on the golf course or in the schoolyard.
Q. There's a belief that trends develop most often when the economy is booming and consumers, flush with money, are more willing to experiment. Is that true?
Mr. Welch and Ms. Lazarus (actually in unison): Probably the opposite.
Mr. Welch: Times of economic recession are when creativity is most fascinating. People working without huge budgets tend to be more innovative.
Q. How can trend trackers discern the difference between a trend and a fad? Or tell when a trend is over?
Ms. Lazarus: Quite often, fads are part of something bigger and more important. Even if not, it's better for clients to know something than for competitors to latch on to it.
Mr. Welch: Then there's something we call the New York defense strategy. As soon as New Yorkers hear about a trend, they say it's over, because they don't want to have to know about it or risk getting involved with it.
Ms. Lazarus: It happens in London, too.
Q. Now for the fun part. Could you detail some of the trends you have been tracking recently for clients?
Mr. Welch: There's "anticool," for those who think cool has been democratized, and the mainstream has access to it because of InStyle, MTV.
Ms. Lazarus: It's a defensive strategy by the leading-edge culture against the mainstream appropriation of cool.
Mr. Welch:: There's a reappraisal of things traditionally deemed uncool: trucker hats, Pabst Blue Ribbon and Miller High Life beers, heavy-metal music.
Ms. Lazarus: It's the whole "white trash" culture, which has been the antithesis of designer culture. In the U.K., the coolest places to hang out are plain old pubs.
We've seen a resurgence in what we call ironic pastimes: camping, lawn bowling, knitting.
Mr. Welch: You see fishing in fashion-magazine layouts, caravaning.
Q. What is another trend you have been tracking?
Ms. Lazarus: It's called "V.I.P. culture," and it's about creating the reality or illusion of exclusivity: gold-card and platinum-card credit cards, fast-tracking through the airport, limited-edition merchandise from mass brands like Nike and Banana Republic, V.I.P. rooms at clubs. If half the club is a V.I.P. room, in the back there's a V.V.I.P. room.
It's all about having a backstage pass, separating yourself from everyone else. The more everything becomes accessible, the more some people want to be separate, desire status and prestige.
Q. And how would awareness of V.I.P. culture affect marketers?
Mr. Welch: The fact you know Nokia has a range called Vertu a line of handsets priced far higher than those bearing the Nokia brand can make you more likely to buy the lower-end range because it brings you a closeness to the higher-end.
Q. Another trend, please?
Ms. Lazarus: "Neighborhood pride," renewed interest in local identities, down to individual districts, suburbs. It's a reaction against us becoming global consumers, all connected. And local identities are important to people to express authenticity.
Mr. Welch: Neighborhoodies is a good example. This is a Brooklyn company selling clothes bearing names of neighborhoods like Chelsea in Manhattan, Carroll Gardens in Brooklyn and the Tenderloin in San Francisco. 
Ms. Lazarus: The world has "I Love NY" T-shirts, but people who actually live in the city buy the subway-line T-shirts or the "212" T-shirts.
Q. And the implications would be?
Ms. Lazarus: This is interesting for brands that have placed so much emphasis on global strategies, but now need to recognize there's also local pride.
Q. Can you tell a bit about your own personal trend-tracking habits?
Ms. Lazarus: We read a lot of magazines.
Mr. Welch: Gay Goth.
Ms. Lazarus: Sleaze Nation, Sue Ellen. There are good ones from Japan, like Relax. And we spend loads of time on the Web.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Welch and Zoe Lazarus, managing directors of a worldwide consulting unit at Ogilvy & Mather. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (91%); TRENDS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); YOUTH MARKET (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: WPP PLC (90%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (84%); EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (69%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CRYSTAL (AD AGENCY); OGILVY & MATHER 

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (90%); WPP (LSE) (90%); AXP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (90%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (90%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (90%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

PERSON: ROCHELLE LAZARUS (79%) LAZARUS, ZOE; WELCH, RICHARD; ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



33 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: International Business; 
Consumerism Grows in China, With Beijing's Blessing

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: GUANGZHOU, China 

 BODY:
THE cellphone market extends block after block in this commercial hub in the southeast corner of the country. The ground floors of a string of buildings are filled with hundreds of small, fluorescent-lighted stalls, many with as little as eight feet of counter space.
 The vendors sell not only cellphones, which Chinese typically purchase separately from their wireless service contracts, but also every conceivable component: keypads, display screens, batteries, plastic coverings and a dizzying variety of electronic connectors, wires and computer chips. Local phone users browse with buyers from cellphone repair shops and factories from all over China, for this is the nation's cellphone manufacturing and trading center. 
 Consumer goods markets like this -- concentrated experiments in capitalism -- represent the next hope for China's economic development. While China's economy has grown swiftly in recent years, most of the growth has been in exports or domestic investment spending. In an economy that in many ways is the reverse of that of the United States, Chinese consumers have proved to be fairly cautious spenders, at least until recently.
But with its ever-rising exports producing trade frictions, with overcapacity emerging in several manufacturing industries and with investment sectors like construction showing signs of overheating, Beijing is slowly but pointedly trying to encourage consumer spending. 
The People's Bank of China has urged banks to lend less to property developers, for example, while drafting regulations to make it easier for consumers to borrow, especially to buy or lease cars. And credit card companies are fanning out in the major cities to sign up new cardholders. While retail sales are still rising much more slowly than investment spending, economists say that government statistics may underestimate a surge in spending on cars and cellphones this year.
With multinationals still racing to build factories in China, economists say the country's growth in exports and investment may not slow markedly. But if it does, consumer spending could take up some of the slack.
"We see that accelerating, not decelerating," with consumer purchases of camera film, for instance, already rising at a consistent pace of8 to 10 percent a year, except during the outbreak last spring of severe acute respiratory syndrome, said Daniel A. Carp, the chairman and chief executive of the Eastman Kodak Company.
Even companies that rely on investment spending in China say that they foresee a shift toward more consumer spending. "I would see a balance developing between the two," said Glen Barton, the chairman and chief executive of Caterpillar Inc.
Extra consumer borrowing and spending could also help Chinese banks grow out of their crippling burden of nonperforming loans. While Chinese corporations bear heavy debts, and do not repay up to half of them, Chinese households have been practically unable to borrow until the last several years and have savings rates, at least in urban areas, as high as 40 percent of their incomes -- eight times the rate in the United States. The banks hope that the income from loans to responsible consumers will help improve their financial state. 
"The leverage on the consumer side is zero," said Liang Hong, an economist at Goldman Sachs. "If anything, they have too much savings." Foreclosure and repossession laws are still in their infancy, and only limited credit histories are available, however, so consumer lending in China remains difficult.
With the average annual Chinese income still around $1,000 a person, cars remain purchases for a small, affluent elite. So the symbol of the mass market in China has become the cellphone.
China is now the world's largest market for cellphone subscriptions, but is not the largest for handsets because frugal Chinese buyers hold on to them for an average of 29 months, longer than in many other markets, said Duncan Clark, the managing director of BDA China, a consulting firm in Beijing. When SARS broke out last spring and sales temporarily slumped nationwide, stocks of the equipment manufacturers briefly plunged.
The Nokia Corporation calculates that more than 70 percent of Beijing residents have cellphone subscriptions and more than 60 percent of Shanghai residents. In terms of sheer numbers, however, China's biggest marketplace is here in Guangdong Province, where 42 percent of the 79 million people have cellphone subscriptions. The rate in Japan is 69 percent and in the United States, 49 percent, although national rates tend to be lower because people in rural areas tend to have fewer cellphones.
The national rate of ownership in China will not even hit 20 percent until this winter, leaving plenty of room for growth, said Pekka Ala-Pietila, Nokia's president. "The market is vibrant," he said. "Once the market has recovered from SARS, we see a lot of positive elements."
As in many industries, however, a growing volume of production from domestic cellphone makers is posing a challenge for multinationals like Nokia and Motorola. China's cellphone output is expected to double in the next several years, as new factories open. Prices for existing cellphone models are tumbling -- some are available for less than $100 -- which is feeding consumer demand. 
At the same time, however, the replacement market for cellphones has been moving upscale, as people selecting their second, third or fourth handsets have tended to choose new and costlier models with more features. With new technologies like 3G expected to make even more images, entertainment and other extras available on a cellphone, it is hard to predict whether average sales prices for handsets will rise or fall, Mr. Ala-Pietila said. 
In addition, the market in China is also booming for the switches and other equipment that drive cellphone networks. "This is a market that is presently the second largest in the world and could very soon be the first," surpassing the United States market, said Carl-Henric Svanberg, the chief executive and president of Ericsson.
But some corporate leaders remain skeptical that spending on cellphones and other consumer items can move much higher in an economy where industrial workers still count themselves lucky if they earn more than $200 a month. "As long as the wages are so low, it will be difficult to increase consumption," said Hans-Jorg Bullinger, the president of Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft, a big German contract research company. 
That is not evident here in Guangzhou's sprawling cellphone marketplace, however. The phones have clearly gone beyond the utilitarian to become fashion accessories to an even greater extent than in the West. Some stores sell coverings in every imaginable hue -- just pop the factory-issued gray covers off, which can look battered after more than two years of use, and replace them with something fashionable in an electric green or sky blue, or sporting a holographic sticker of a cartoon figure.
"We think changing cellphones is a trendy way to show off," said Yang, the shop's clerk, who gave only her last name, as did other sales clerks in the market, which is full of products that violate copyrights and trademarks. "Rich people buy a new phone. The less rich buy a new covering."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 5, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, two charts on Monday in the special Outlook issue of Business Day -- one showing the number of cellphone and fixed-line subscribers in China and the other showing central bank interest rates for Britain, the European Union and the United States -- carried incorrect scales. Corrected versions appear today, on Page C4.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The cellphone trading market in Guangzhou represents China's next hope for economic development. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) Graph: "Going Mobile"Ten years ago, there were fewer than 2 million cellphone users in China. Now there are almost 261 million, and their numbers are expected to surpass fixed-line phone subscribers this year. Graph tracks the number of mobile phone subscribers and fixed-line phone subscribers* since 1994. Includes low-range cordless phones that allow roaming within a small town but not to other cities. (Source by Ministry of Information Industry; BDA China)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RETAILERS (77%); CREDIT CARDS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS & SUPPLIES MFG (75%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); PERSONAL DEBT (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT REPAIR (73%); BANKING IN CHINA (73%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (64%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (64%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (64%); STATISTICS (63%); SARS (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (56%); RETAIL SALES (50%) CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (84%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (81%); CATERPILLAR INC (61%)

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (61%); CATR (PAR) (61%); CAT (SWX) (61%); CAT (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (61%)

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (72%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTH CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (72%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) CHINA; 

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



34 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1546 words

HEADLINE: Economy & Business; 
Some Businesses Take Initiative to Voluntarily Reduce Emissions

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
WHEN the Bush administration and the Republican leadership in Congress oppose capping emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases implicated in global warming, they argue that doing so would damage the economy. Major business lobbies in Washington like the National Association of Manufacturers support that stand.
 But a growing number of businesses are finding that they can cut emissions and enhance the bottom line at the same time. Many are pursuing much more ambitious greenhouse-gas reduction programs than the voluntary goals that the Bush administration favors. 
 Take Alcoa, whose former chairman and chief executive, Paul H. O'Neill, left in 2001 to become President Bush's first Treasury secretary. 
In the spring of 1998, Mr. O'Neill warned in a speech to the aluminum industry's largest trade group that civilization could "go down the drain" if climate change was not taken seriously. While there was still much to learn about humanity's role in global warming, he said, the industry needed to confront its reliance on electricity generated from burning fossil fuels that yield carbon dioxide, as well as manufacturing processes that make other greenhouse gases, so known because they tend to trap heat from the sun as they accumulate in the atmosphere. 
"We shouldn't argue about it," Mr. O'Neill said in the speech. "We should just get on with it."
Alcoa has already reduced its carbon dioxide emissions by more than 23.5 percent from 1990 levels while expanding its production. 
Others, including DuPont, International Paper, Ford Motor, American Electric Power and Motorola, have founded the Chicago Climate Exchange. Each has pledged to cut its emissions by 1 percent annually over the next four years, or to buy credits from others who have made an exchange-approved investment to reduce emissions.
By contrast, the Bush administration reckons that cutting emissions would be too costly, and instead aims to reduce the rate of emission increases gradually over the next decade. In rejecting the Kyoto Protocol, which almost all other industrial nations have supported to set caps on emissions of greenhouse gases, President Bush has objected not only to the cost but also to the fact that the agreement does not cover China, India and other big developing nations. 
The companies moving most aggressively in this area are quick to say that they are being driven not by altruism, but by an assessment that investments in emission reductions can end up paying for themselves in reduced operating costs. The changes are also seen as a way to make the companies more profitable. 
Even so, their efforts are cited by environmental groups, efficiency experts and some business executives as evidence that the federal government's policies are too timid. 
The overall goal of the Bush administration is to reduce annual greenhouse emissions per dollar of output by 18 percent in the decade ending in 2012, through a range of voluntary actions. Because the government expects the economy to grow by more than 18 percent in that period, the end result would be higher total emissions. 
At best, the cumulative total of greenhouse gases emitted over the decade in the United States would be 2 percent less than if no changes were made in current practices, according to a study released last month by the General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress. The study was based on data from the Department of Energy about oil, gas and coal consumption, the main human sources of greenhouse gas emissions.
"I think it's just a matter of time before tougher goals are set," said Paul Tebo, vice president for safety, health and environment at DuPont.
Even companies that foresee emissions rising with output are adopting more aggressive goals than the administration. Pfizer, the pharmaceutical company, has pledged to cut greenhouse emissions per dollar of output by 35 percent by 2007 compared with 2000 levels. 
Alcoa was the only major company to give testimony before Congress in support of legislation proposed by Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, that would have imposed statutory caps on total emissions, although DuPont wrote a letter favoring the measure. The Senate rejected the measure by a 55-to-43 vote in October, but Mr. McCain said, "We will be back on this issue."
The Chicago Climate Exchange, which begins trading Dec. 12, has tried to create such a market based on voluntary caps adopted by its members. But without government regulations enforcing the caps, there is much less pressure on heavy emitters to participate, and the prices they are willing to pay for allowances may be so low that there is little financial inducement for potential sellers to invest in cutting emissions. 
DuPont, for example, spent more than $50 million reducing emissions around the world in the 1990's, and is now recouping the investment by selling credits and its technical expertise. But almost all of its sales have been overseas, in countries like Britain that have established emissions caps in compliance with the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. 
"Very few companies in this country are willing to commit to buying emission credits to be in compliance with a voluntary greenhouse gas reduction program," said Ethan J. Podell, an energy consultant and a former senior vice president for sales and marketing at the Chicago Climate Exchange, in testimony before the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation.
The government, and most businesses, argue that the problem with mandatory caps is that too little is known about the costs and impact of rising temperatures to set limits. 
"It's not a trivial task to design a set of rules that works," said Martin B. Zimmerman, group vice president at Ford Motor. 
Indeed, the accounting questions that go with curbing emissions can be daunting. When a company sells a major unit in which it has invested heavily to cut greenhouse emissions, as DuPont is planning to do with its nylon and related textile operations, does it lose all credit for the improvements? 
"The greenhouse gas world is different from other pollutants, because it is more complex and more international," said Richard Rosensweig, a strategy consultant in the environmental services unit of Natsource, a leading broker of private energy and environmental trading. "Climate touches all sectors of the economy."
Most large companies moving aggressively to curb emissions are multinationals already planning for the eventual enforcement of caps overseas. The Kyoto Protocol obliges industrial countries to cut greenhouse gas emissions to 5.2 percent below 1990 levels by 2012. It is not yet legally binding for the nations that have signed it, but it will be if Russia follows through on its announced plans to sign it. In the meantime, many countries have already begun developing the rules they will follow to do their part. 
MANY of those multinationals are also cutting emissions aggressively because they see competitive benefits from moving faster than the United States. Alcoa and many other aluminum companies, for example, now say that climate concerns could benefit their industry. 
Their optimism is based on the high percentage of aluminum that is now recycled -- in effect retaining the original energy invested in making the metal -- and on aluminum's role in reducing fuel consumption by replacing heavy steel in cars. Alcoa calculates that if established trends in production efficiency, emissions and use of aluminum in vehicles continue, by 2017 the total tonnage of greenhouse gas emissions saved a year by using aluminum in vehicles will exceed the total amount produced by the industry. 
In pursuit of that projection, Alcoa is increasing its reliance on hydroelectric power and other power sources that do not emit greenhouse gases. It is also planting millions of trees, most of them on Alcoa-owned land, to soak up carbon from the atmosphere. 
Most of the gains Alcoa claims so far have come from reducing releases of perfluorocarbons, gas compounds that last far longer than carbon dioxide and thus do much more harm, pound for pound. 
The Environmental Protection Agency estimates that over the course of a century, a given weight of perfluorocarbons has 6,500 to 9,200 times the greenhouse effect of the same weight of carbon dioxide.
Aluminum smelters generate perfluorocarbon gases when they plunge giant blocks of carbon into enclosed pots filled with molten sodium aluminum fluoride, and then run huge electric charges through the blocks into the liquid bath to separate out the aluminum. The gases build up as the available aluminum in the bath decreases, and eventually block the process. Historically, that was an indicator that it was time to start processing a new batch of material. 
Once they were challenged to manage releases of the gases into the atmosphere, Alcoa and other companies discovered ways to sharply reduce the amounts of gas produced, like etching grooves in the carbon blocks. Along the way, they discovered that the entire process became more efficient.
"We've had triple wins so far," said Randy Overbey, president of Alcoa's power generating business. "It's helped our labor productivity, the environment and the production process." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREENHOUSE GASES (94%); EMISSIONS (93%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHEMICALS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (72%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%) WEATHER; GLOBAL WARMING 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (57%); FORD MOTOR CO (55%); AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (55%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (58%) ALCOA INC 

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%); FORDP (PAR) (55%); F (NYSE) (55%); AEP (NYSE) (55%); MSI (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



35 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Outlook; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Economy & Business; 
With Change in Consumer Confidence, So Goes the Presidency

BYLINE:  By DANIEL AKST 

 BODY:
A CHICKEN in every pot. A New Deal. The inflation-era "misery index." 
 Although economists may debate the extent to which presidents influence the economy, there is no doubt that the economy influences presidential elections. Herbert Hoover learned that the hard way. So did Jimmy Carter. The rallying cry of Bill Clinton's campaign against the first George Bush -- "It's the economy, stupid" -- embodied this ancestral political knowledge. 
 But what counts more than the economy is how people feel about the economy, when they feel it and how optimistic they are. 
How they feel about the economy seems to be mostly a function of gasoline prices, interest rates and, especially, unemployment. Voters' insecurity about work can hardly help an incumbent. Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania summed this up neatly when he wrote to his Republican colleagues in October: "It's still jobs, jobs, jobs."
Nor will it do for an incumbent to deliver minutes before the election. "People form their view months in advance," warns Stephen Stanley, senior market economist at RBS Greenwich Capital, who studied consumer confidence and presidential campaigns while at the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, Va. Of the 1992 presidential election, for instance, he noted that the recession had officially ended by March of the previous year, and by Election Day the economy was doing fairly well. But by then the first President Bush was well tarred with the brush of economic ineptitude.
The current President Bush may have learned from that episode; Mr. Stanley pointed out that while the Bush tax cuts this year were retroactive to Jan. 1, the tax tables could not be changed until July 1, after the cuts were adopted. As a result, next spring, consumers will receive tax refunds fattened by federal over-withholding during the first six months of this year. That might make taxpayers feel better, and if they spend the money, it could buoy an already consumer-driven economy as the campaign moves into high gear. 
These same consumers may even offer something like a crystal ball to those who have already resorted to such indicators from folklore as presidential height (taller candidates are supposed to win) or the level of women's hemlines (higher is supposed to favor Democrats).
The Conference Board, a business research group, started conducting regular surveys of consumer confidence in the late 1960's, and since then, the data are clear: when the board's Consumer Confidence Index in the September before a presidential election is at 100 or above, the incumbent party wins the popular vote. That held true for Al Gore in 2000, even though he lost to George W. Bush in the Electoral College vote. The only year the connection did not hold up was in 1968, when the confidence level, then tallied bimonthly, exceeded 100 in both August and October, and Richard M. Nixon defeated the candidate of the incumbent party, Hubert H. Humphrey. 
For those who cannot wait until next fall's Conference Board figures for a sense of who will win the presidential election, there is an even more intriguing metric. It seems that the level of consumer optimism at midterm correlates strongly with the outcome of the next presidential race.
"When consumers feel more optimistic about the future than the present, the incumbent tends to stay in office," said Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board's Consumer Research Center. 
When the board surveys consumers, it measures both their perception of how things are and their expectations for the future. Determine which is higher, and you get some sense of how optimistic people are. In 1970, for instance, the "present" score was 61.8 in the survey closest to the midterm elections, but expectations were measured at 97.5. In that case, the future looked brighter than the present by 35.7 points, and two years later Nixon was re-elected. 
In 1978, however, expectations stood at 82.4, while the present weighed in at 117.7. The difference, a negative 35.3, implied substantial pessimism and was followed two years later by Ronald Reagan's defeat of Jimmy Carter. In 1998, dizzyingly high levels of consumer confidence swamped relatively less high expectations, and in 2000 the Democrats lost the White House.
The exception was the re-election of President Clinton in 1996. Two years earlier, expectations minus current confidence was slightly negative. As to the current president, the midterm figures, from November last year, suggest he will win next year. 
Consumer emotions, moreover, may be a better indicator of presidential fortunes than consumer behavior. For example, sales of new cars, once a good marker for consumer exuberance, now depend largely on auto industry incentives.
Though it is true that optimistic consumers tend to be big spenders, it is also true that "when people get worried or depressed, they often try to spend their way out of it," said George Loewenstein, a Carnegie Mellon professor who specializes in economics and psychology. 
Barring a financial meltdown, consumers have a bias toward spending that can make their purchasing habits misleading. But unhappy consumers are unlikely to tell pollsters they are feeling good about things.
Perhaps the biggest economic challenge to President Bush arises from the economy that Americans have enjoyed since the early 1990's. "Consumers have come to expect lower inflation, unemployment and interest rates as the norm," Richard T. Curtin, director for consumer surveys at the University of Michigan, wrote recently. "Just as in the 1970's, when the economy failed to achieve the higher standards set in the 1960's, consumers will again readily express their political disfavor with any failure to achieve these higher standards."
If that is true, a president who presides over a decent but not robust economy could find himself abruptly unemployed, a paradoxical victim of his predecessors' successes.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Better Than a Poll?"When the Consumer Confidence Index, which was started in 1967, has been at 100 or above the September before a presidential election, the incumbent party has won thepopular vote; when it has been below 100, the opponent has won -- except in 1968. '68THE CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX BEFORE ELECTION*: 142.3RESULTS OF ELECTION (INCUMBENT OR REPRESENTATIVE OF INCUMBENT PARTY IN BOLD): Nixon (R) defeated Humphrey (D) '72THE CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX BEFORE ELECTION*: 112.0RESULTS OF ELECTION (INCUMBENT OR REPRESENTATIVE OF INCUMBENT PARTY IN BOLD): Nixon (R) re-elected over McGovern (D) '76THE CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX BEFORE ELECTION*: 87.1RESULTS OF ELECTION (INCUMBENT OR REPRESENTATIVE OF INCUMBENT PARTY IN BOLD): Carter (D) defeated Ford (R) '80THE CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX BEFORE ELECTION*: 80.3RESULTS OF ELECTION (INCUMBENT OR REPRESENTATIVE OF INCUMBENT PARTY IN BOLD): Reagan (R) defeated Carter (D) '84THE CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX BEFORE ELECTION*: 100.0RESULTS OF ELECTION (INCUMBENT OR REPRESENTATIVE OF INCUMBENT PARTY IN BOLD): Reagan (R) re-elected over Mondale (D) '88THE CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX BEFORE ELECTION*: 110.7RESULTS OF ELECTION (INCUMBENT OR REPRESENTATIVE OF INCUMBENT PARTY IN BOLD): Bush (R) defeated Dukakis (D) '92THE CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX BEFORE ELECTION*: 57.3RESULTS OF ELECTION (INCUMBENT OR REPRESENTATIVE OF INCUMBENT PARTY IN BOLD): Clinton (D) defeated Bush (R) '96THE CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX BEFORE ELECTION*: 111.8RESULTS OF ELECTION (INCUMBENT OR REPRESENTATIVE OF INCUMBENT PARTY IN BOLD): Clinton (D) re-elected over Dole (R) '00THE CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX BEFORE ELECTION*: 142.5RESULTS OF ELECTION (INCUMBENT OR REPRESENTATIVE OF INCUMBENT PARTY IN BOLD): Bush (R) defeated Gore (D)+ * Survey was bimonthly prior to 1977, so figures for 1968, 1972 and 1976 are for October and they are for September from 1980 on.+Gore won the popular vote but Bush was elected by the Electoral College. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); RECESSION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); TAX LAW (64%); INTEREST RATES (54%); GASOLINE PRICES (54%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (US) 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (68%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (68%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); AL GORE (78%); JIMMY CARTER (77%); RICK SANTORUM (57%) AKST, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



36 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: SYRIAN PRESSING FOR ISRAEL TALKS 

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria, Nov. 30 

 BODY:
President Bashar al-Assad called Sunday for the United States to use its influence to revive negotiations between his country and Israel, portraying their absence as a gaping hole in the Bush administration's strategy for the Middle East. 
 Mr. Assad, in an interview at the small stone villa that serves as his private office in the hills above Damascus, said the details of returning the Golan Heights to Syria in exchange for security guarantees to Israel were 80 percent complete a few months before he succeeded his late father as Syria's president. But the Bush administration, preoccupied by Iraq and the Palestinians, has shown little interest in this strand of diplomacy, he said. 
 The president said neglecting the Syrian-Israel dispute was a prime example of the Bush administration's preaching of visionary change to the Middle East without adopting practical measures to attain it. 
"You cannot just keep talking about this vision, you have to put a mechanism in order to achieve that vision," he said. Key passages, Page A12. 
Mr. Assad, who is 38 and has been in power just half a year longer than President Bush, ranged for more than two hours across subjects from the turmoil in neighboring Iraq to the antiterror campaign to his own hurdles in shaping domestic reform. He insisted that Damascus had already taken many of the actions demanded by the Bush administration in terms of policing its borders and shuttering the offices of militant Palestinian organizations. 
Speaking in a mixture of Arabic and fluent English, Mr. Assad struck a generally conciliatory tone toward the United States, emphasizing repeatedly that America's low public standing in the Arab world could be overcome, and that Syria did not regard the United States as an adversary.
Despite bitter differences over Iraq and renewed efforts in Washington to punish Syria as a sponsor of terrorism, Mr. Assad said his intelligence agencies continued to cooperate closely with the C.I.A. in combating terrorism, and had provided information that allowed the United States to foil imminent attacks on Americans in at least seven cases.
He declined to give specific details, saying that doing so might affect future cooperation. 
Recent events in the Middle East, like the Israeli attack on what it described as a terrorist training camp in Syria in October, have left the impression that Damascus has little leverage and a shrinking regional role. But Mr. Assad suggested that Syria could be an important component to solving both violent conflicts in the Middle East -- in Iraq and in the Palestinian territories. 
"There can be no peace in the region without Syria," he said. "And Syria is important for the future stability in Iraq due to its credibility and its being a neighbor to Iraq."
In contrast to Syria's previous belligerent statements about the need for an immediate end to the American occupation of Iraq, however, Mr. Assad softened his country's position. Asked how he felt about having 100,000 American soldiers as his newest neighbors, he sounded almost resigned. 
"The problem is not whether you have one American soldier or a million American soldiers on your borders," he said. "And the problem is not whether they are going to stay one year or 10 years. The problem is whether the U.S. is going to become a power for achieving turbulence in the region instead of being an element of stability."
Mr. Assad acknowledged that it was up to the Iraqis to decide on the opportune moment for the United States to withdraw, but said democracy could not be achieved at gunpoint. "I think the solution in Iraq is to allow the Iraqis to write their own constitution and to elect their own government," he said. 
In those remarks, the Syrian president joined the unusual chorus of Arab leaders calling for measures in Iraq that often do not exist in their own countries. Although there is an official political opposition here, it is largely toothless. The Baath Party and various police agencies run the country, with rigorous controls against dissent, and much of the economy is state controlled. 
Mr. Assad ruled out the deployment of Syrian troops as part of any peacekeeping force in Iraq, saying that given decades of friction between the countries, a Syrian contingent would probably be unacceptable to the Iraqis. 
The American invasion at first seemed to give Syria a case of the jitters. On the day that the United States Army brought the statue of Saddam Hussein crashing down in Baghdad, Syrian television broadcast a long documentary about Islamic architecture. On the streets of Damascus at the time, Syrians could be heard whispering jokes about knocking over their own statues, or at least winning greater freedom.
Mr. Assad conceded that some of his fellow citizens might have considered the upheaval in Iraq contagious, but said any idea of Iraq as a model for change was fading beneath the grim reality of daily violence. 
"I think before the war on Iraq, some thought about this," he said. "Most of them now think this is a bad example of bringing democracy."
Syria took one of the most strident Arab positions against the United States-led invasion of Iraq, with Mr. Assad saying at the time that he hoped it would fail and that Iraqi resistance would prove effective against the Americans. 
In the interview, Mr. Assad said much of what Syria had warned about had come to pass in Iraq, but he acknowledged that both his country and the Arab world at large were stuck in a dilemma. They loathe the idea that the United States military can overturn an Arab government, but fear failure might inspire a tidal wave of Islamic militancy or other violence. 
"It's like entering a long tunnel: there is no light at the end and it's growing narrower and narrower -- at the end you're going to be stuck," the president said. "You cannot go forward, and you cannot go backward."
Mr. Assad said Syria was no longer permitting anti-American volunteers to pass at official border crossings, but he said he was powerless to control infiltrations across the 300-mile border. He dismissed the idea that foreign fighters were an important element in the resistance. 
"Maybe you have 1,000 or 2,000 people from outside Iraq, but what about the 25 million Iraqis?" he said.
In discussing possible renewed Israeli-Syrian peace negotiations, Mr. Assad said he had no preconditions. But given the progress made before they foundered in March 2000 over the issue of borders, it would be a waste of time to start from scratch, he said.
If such talks did succeed, the president said he saw no reason that Syria could not have full, normal relations with Israel. 
"This word has no limit: normalization means like the relations between Syria and the United States," he said. 
The Syrian leader went through the laundry list of accusations that Washington has leveled against his country, all recently packaged together in the Syrian Accountability Act passed by Congress this fall and expected to be signed by Mr. Bush. 
The law calls for a variety of sanctions to be imposed on Syria. Mr. Assad denied sponsoring terrorist organizations or helping to arm Mr. Hussein, noting the longstanding hostility between the two countries. Syrian support for the Lebanese organization Hezbollah, which the United States calls a terrorist group, consists of political support for its confrontation with Israel but neither arms nor money, he said. 
He called the legislation typical of the way Israel's allies in Washington foment obstacles to any improvement in ties with Syria.
On domestic issues, the president conceded that the reform program he outlined in his inaugural speech in July 2000 was moving slowly. He painted the main obstacle as the mentality in Syria, especially in the government, toward change. 
He denied the existence of an old guard that was either holding him hostage to his father's policies or preventing him from carrying out the reforms he seeks.
"I have the authority to take the steps that I am convinced of," he said. 
A common complaint among Syria's businessmen is that either relatives of the president or the children of close associates of his father, Hafez al-Assad, control vast business empires and block any economic reform that might dilute their control. Mr. Assad said his relatives competed for business just as any other Syrians here do.
There had been a fairly robust free speech movement in most Syrian cities in the year after his inauguration, but a series of arrests and trials of prominent critics of the government squelched the feeling of a political spring. Mr. Assad said those jailed had sought to inflame sectarian divisions, and he rejected the notion that Syrians felt any constraints in criticizing his government. 
"If we put in prison anyone who criticizes us, I don't think we would have enough prisons," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bashar al-Assad at an interview in his office yesterday. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. A1); President Assad, in one of his offices yesterday, said neglect of Syrian-Israeli talks was a gaping hole in the United States' Middle East strategy. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); TERRORISM (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); IRAQ WAR (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%) PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%) MACFARQUHAR, NEIL; ASSAD, BASHAR AL- (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%); SYRIA (97%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%) ISRAEL; SYRIA; IRAQ; GOLAN HEIGHTS; MIDDLE EAST

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



37 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Steel Industry Expects Bush To Drop Tariffs 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 30 

 BODY:
President Bush is expected to announce this week that he will immediately lift most of the tariffs he placed on foreign steel in an effort to protect American industry, bowing to a ruling by the World Trade Organization that his administration had violated global trading rules, industry officials who have been in negotiations with the White House said on Sunday.
 The possible announcement, first reported in Monday's issue of The Washington Post, could come on Monday, the officials said, when Mr. Bush is in Michigan to attend an economic event and raise money for the 2004 campaign. But he may wait until after a Tuesday trip to Pittsburgh, where the decision to accede to the trade organization ruling, even if accompanied by an expected threat by Mr. Bush to reimpose tariffs if there is a surge of low-cost foreign steel, will be deeply unpopular among steelworkers and owners of the American steel manufacturers. 
 The White House has said Mr. Bush may make no decision until a deadline in the middle of December. But industry officials who have been talking to White House economic officials say Mr. Bush's advisers have warned him that there is no way to avoid the billions of dollars in retaliatory tariffs that Europe and Japan have threatened to impose on American goods if the tariffs are not lifted.
The Europeans would use retaliatory tariffs to strike at industries in states crucial to the 2004 election, for example, on Florida citrus, motorcycles produced in Pennsylvania and Michigan, and other products in states that Mr. Bush feels he must win in 2004.
One industry official who has been talking to the White House said he expected that Mr. Bush would try to make the best of his defeat by arguing that the main objective of the tariffs has been achieved: the American steel industry has consolidated significantly in the past 18 months, exactly the reorganization that Mr. Bush declared had to happen during the three-year life of the tariffs.
Under the trade organization's rules, the tariffs on foreign steel decline every year so that the domestic steel industry would face increasing pressure to become more efficient.
"He'll try to declare victory, as best we understand it," the industry official said. "But clearly, this could be politically costly." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



38 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: CUNY Thinks It's Past Time To Get Funds For Buildings 

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
When Matthew Goldstein, the chancellor of the City University of New York, presents next year's budget to CUNY's trustees today, he will be trying to make up for lost time.
 The university submitted a $2.6 billion five-year capital request last year to cover new buildings and repairs on its 19 campuses, but the State Legislature never acted on it and CUNY has received no new capital money this year from Albany. 
 Now the university has a backlog of projects, from fixing moldy ceilings and leaky roofs to building new science laboratories and state-of-the-art classrooms. According to budget documents distributed for the board meeting, it plans to ask for $1.9 billion in capital funds for the next five years -- less than it sought last year but well above the $1.2 billion that Gov. George E. Pataki proposed for CUNY in his executive budget last winter. 
"We have patched things together as best we could, but there are serious issues in a physical plant that is aging," Dr. Goldstein said last week.
Without money to spend on construction and repair, he said, the university faces serious health and safety problems and is breaking the "covenant" it has with its faculty and students.
"We say, 'Come and study here, do research here, and we will provide you with labs and other physical space that allows you to do the best work you can,' " Dr. Goldstein said in a telephone interview. "By not having a capital budget, we are not living up to our end of the bargain."
This has been a difficult budget year for most government-financed units. To plug the gap in its operating budget this year, CUNY raised annual tuition 25 percent, to $4,000 for students at its senior colleges.
The Legislature's failure to approve the university's capital budget was more a matter of politics than economics, since capital spending generally comes from borrowing in the bond markets rather than from state tax levies. The Legislature would not act on CUNY's capital request without acting on one from the State University of New York. And legislators refused to approve a SUNY capital budget -- about $2.5 billion in Mr. Pataki's executive budget -- unless the university provided more detail about how it planned to spend the money. 
Assemblyman Ron Canestrari, chairman of the Assembly's higher education committee, said Wednesday that until a committee hearing the day before, he had hoped he could pry such a detailed capital budget out of SUNY and had thought that both capital budgets might be approved if the Legislature met in special session this month.
But after he heard the testimony of SUNY's chancellor, Robert King, at the committee hearing in New York City on Tuesday, Mr. Canestrari said, he doubted that SUNY would deliver such material before the governor issued his next executive budget, for the 2004-05 fiscal year. 
"These are public dollars, and legislators have a right to know how they will be spent," Mr. Canestrari said, explaining why he and other legislators wanted more information. "I don't know why SUNY won't provide it. They have done it before. It is not as if we are reinventing the wheel."
David Henahan, a SUNY spokesman, said that five years ago, SUNY assessed each campus's critical maintenance needs before assembling a five-year capital request. This time, he said, the university had planned to allocate money based on the size in square feet "to provide the campuses with maximum flexibility."
If SUNY was loath to be more specific, CUNY faculty members, students and administrators turned out in force at the Assembly hearing last week to make the case for how capital ought to be spent at their university. 
Some of the most devastating testimony came from the chairwoman of the biology department at the City College of New York, Jane Gallagher, who said the college's Marshak science building had deteriorated to the point of crisis. She said that people fainted from leaking fumes in the building and had to be carried out on stretchers, and that black dust showered on people from air ducts.
"We have been inundated in water from broken pipes to the point where we have had waterfalls going down the fire stairs from the 13th floor to the basement," Ms. Gallagher said. "Every time it rains outside, water seeps from the external balconies into the labs on the corners of the building. Some of the labs have growths of species of fungi known to be harmful to human health. We have been unsuccessful in eradicating these fungi."
Barbara Bowen, president of CUNY's faculty and staff union, the Professional Staff Congress, said many CUNY colleges had poor conditions, including falling concrete, elevators that do not reach all floors and crowding that results when 18,000 students are squeezed into space designed for 7,000.
The president of Brooklyn College, Christoph M. Kimmich, said that the state had already provided money for much of the construction of a student services and physical education building designed by the architect Rafael Vinoly on his college's West Quadrangle, and that ground was broken in July. Unless the state approves a final allocation of $24 million this year, he said, the college will have trouble completing the bidding process this year. "We need the assurance of the full budget," he said in an e-mail message on Saturday. 
The president of City College's undergraduate student government, Lev A. Sviridov, told the Assembly committee that if the state wanted to continue to attract strong students, it also had to invest in space for student activities.
"The number of student clubs and organizations has doubled this year," he said, "while student space has remained constant or decreased throughout the years."
Mr. Sviridov also strongly opposed a proposal by the Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities, a consortium of more than 100 private nonprofit colleges in New York State, that the state provide them with capital funds along with SUNY and CUNY. 
The group's president, Abraham M. Lackman, who also testified, argued that the independent colleges served "as strong a public mission as the public universities." He said the private schools had a larger number of needy students than either SUNY or CUNY, and that like the public universities, the private schools were a "catalyst of economic development."
If the state provided $250 million in capital for the private schools over five years, he said, they would put up $750 million, generating $1 billion of construction and more than 11,000 new jobs.
Mr. Canestrari said he was interested in the proposal but believed it would face political obstacles.
"I think it will be difficult to pass," he said, "but I don't think it is out of the question." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); BOND MARKETS (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TAX LAW (68%); BONDS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%) Colleges and Universities; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: State University of New York; City University of New York

PERSON: Karen W Arenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



39 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Sorry, Your Wallet Says Upper East Side; 
In Manhattan, Budget-Conscious Renters Find a Surprising Bargain

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
Ah, the Upper East Side, land of fur coats, small dogs and boundless affluence. And now, much to the surprise of those without trust funds, it is also the land of bargain rents, at least by Manhattan's Himalayan standards.
 In a strange twist of real estate fate, the Upper East Side has become the neighborhood of choice for first-time renters in Manhattan. The reason is its new affordability. Though the stately avenues of Fifth and Park are as exclusive and expensive as ever, overall rents in the area have slumped, as higher earners have moved to hipper areas. 
 "On a pure rent basis it is the best bargain in the city," said Andrew Heiberger, chief executive and founder of Citi Habitats, a large New York real estate brokerage firm. 
Throughout the 1990's, neighborhoods like Chelsea, the Upper West Side and the Lower East Side became fashionable spots for young professionals moving to Manhattan. That took some of the buzz -- and the business -- away from Upper East Side rental buildings east of Lexington Avenue.
"It used to be all about the Upper East Side in the 1980's," said Pam Liebman, chief executive of the Corcoran Group. "But a lot of other neighborhoods have stolen those young people away."
The Upper East Side, broadly defined as the area from 59th Street to 96th Street east of Central Park, had the lowest percentage increase in rent in Manhattan in the 1990's -- 42 percent -- according to figures from the 2000 census, which accounts for all rents, including those for rent-regulated apartments. 
In fact, the Upper East Side had a lower increase than East Harlem (48 percent) and Washington Heights (47 percent), though rents in the Upper East Side are still higher than rents in those areas.
The area has also fallen the farthest in the recent economic slump. In the two years that ended in 2002, rents for new leases in two-bedroom apartments without a doorman on the Upper East Side declined by about 20 percent, while rents for the same type of apartment on the Upper West Side fell by about 12 percent, according to Halstead/Feathered Nest, a broker that provides annual rent analysis reports. (Brokers sometimes rent price-stabilized apartments, but the majority of their business is from market-rate rentals, and their statistics reflect this.)
In the 1980's, the Upper East Side boomed with construction. Boxy new high-rises marched down Third Avenue, and the neighborhood became flooded with rental apartments.
That oversupply slowed price increases, and bargain hunters have come calling. In April, Citi Habitats reported that about a fifth of all its new leases in the previous year were for the Upper East Side, more than in any other neighborhood. Eight years ago, the Upper East Side accounted for about 10 percent of its rental business, according to Gordon Golub, Upper East Side manager of Citi Habitats. And Corcoran said that in the past six months, its Internet site had had more hits for rental apartments on the Upper East Side than for any other area.
The word "bargain" has, of course, long been relative in Manhattan. Sure, $1,000 a month would rent a palace elsewhere, but there are landlords in Manhattan asking $3,000 a month for 600-square-foot studios.
Hoping to spend less than $1,000 a month for a Manhattan apartment, Maureen Atwell, a full-time student and a secretary, searched doggedly on the Internet.
"I would type in my price range, and I would see really good things on the Upper East Side and really terrible things everywhere else," she said.
Ms. Atwell had previously dismissed the area as "a very barren nothing land, a wasteland of rich people."
"It was my last choice," she said. But the price was just about right; she found a studio on East 71st Street for $1,100 a month and moved in last fall.
She was pleasantly surprised. Groceries and boutique restaurants line Second and Third Avenues. Bars on First Avenue throbbed with life at night. The only disappointment, Ms. Atwell said, was the absence of self-service laundromats.
Nick Trippel, director of the social sciences computing labat Hunter College, who moved to the area this spring, said he thought the area was "stodgy," and feared that he "would be living with people who all wear boat shoes and want to talk about their weekend trip to the Hamptons."
Mr. Trippel chuckled as he recalled a recent conversation with a friend about his move into a one-bedroom apartment on East 82nd Street between Second and Third Avenues.
"He said, 'Oh, nice address.' He thought I had inherited a million dollars and was moving in with the swanks."
"The perception is I have come into a lot of money," Mr. Trippel said, but the reality is I'm paying $1,200 a month in rent."
Steadily rising rents throughout the 1980's and 1990's have increasingly made Manhattan a place for high earners. In the decade ending in 2000, overall apartment rents soared, according to census figures compiled by the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University. The biggest jump in Manhattan was on the Upper West Side, with a 60 percent rise in median monthly rents. The Furman Center found that the median rent on the Upper East Side had risen just 42 percent.
It is not unusual to see young renters piled into Upper East Side apartments. At Normandie Court, a high-rise on Third Avenue and 95th Street, so many young tenants have erected wall-like partitions to create more rooms that the building is sometimes referred to as "Dormitory Court."
Rachel Markison, 22, moved to Manhattan from Ann Arbor, Mich., and began teaching at Public School 31 in the Bronx in August. She lives at Normandie Court with three other people in a three-bedroom apartment with a wall making a fourth bedroom of the living room. Each pays less than $1,000.
"It would be a lot less affordable if you didn't have the wall," she said, sitting in front of the building recently.
Others move to the building for the social life. Lyon and Gabriel Orpaz, 25-year-old twins, said they liked the young atmosphere there. Lyon Orpaz moved there after he had broken up with his girlfriend and was looking for distraction.
"The realtor said, 'I know the perfect building for you,' " he said.
His brother added: "There are floor parties. People from college just stop by. It is like a dorm in that sense."
Though rents in the building were not bargain basement, Lyon Orpaz said, the apartments were attractive because the landlord was not very controlling. Flocks of friends swap rooms in apartments where wall-building policies are flexible.
The lower crime rate on the Upper East Side distinguished it from other neighborhoods when crime soared in the city. But with the fall in crime over the past decade, the area has lost that advantage. So now, said Kenneth T. Jackson, history professor at Columbia University and president of the New-York Historical Society, it has to compete with the East Village and Hell's Kitchen for young renters.
"The decline of crime has made us appreciate the funkiness," Professor Jackson said. "There's not much of a funky feeling to the Upper East Side. It seems homogenous."
Professor Jackson also pointed to the meatpacking district in the far West Village. "Years ago, we would have said, 'Yuck,' " he said. "We don't say 'Yuck' as quickly anymore. People are looking for a bit of an edge."
A neighborhood can have a bit of an edge, but renters want speed, space and reliability in their transportation. The Upper East Side's lone subway line, the Lexington Avenue line, is crammed with commuters during rush hour, leaving East Siders to envy the luxury of three lines on the West Side.
The Lexington line "is God's own torture device," Ms. Atwell said. "At rush hour, it's so packed that every morning there would be this terrible fight."
On a recent Thursday afternoon, old-timers at Reif's, a neighborhood bar that opened in 1942, talked about the changes over beer. The bar, just down Second Avenue from Normandie Court, is in an area that was once full of German and Irish immigrants, but that is now seeing an increase in younger renters.
"A lot more kids up here are in their first jobs out of college," said Glenn Spellman, who has lived in the neighborhood for 14 years. "They put them two and three in an apartment."
The bartender chimed in, "Moving vans, always moving vans."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maureen Atwell, student and secretary, called the Upper East Side "a wasteland of rich people" until she found a deal there.; Construction of high-rises, like these near 90th Street and Third Avenue, surged on the Upper East Side in the 1980's. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Lyon, left, and Gabriel Orpaz, 25-year-old twins, live at Normandie Court, on 95th Street near Third Avenue, mainly for its youthful atmosphere. (Photo by Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); STATISTICS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); CENSUS (66%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Renting and Leasing

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%); FEATHERED NEST (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: Sabrina Tavernise

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



40 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: AUTOS ON MONDAY/Technology; 
Beyond the V-6? The W-8, of Course

BYLINE:  By DON SHERMAN

 BODY:
WATCH out, V, the W might be gaining ground. 
 W-shape engines, a recent twist in design, have begun to show up under the hood of several new models from the Volkswagen Group, offering a fresh approach to packing more cylinders into engine compartments. With space made scarcer by designers staking out a greater share of the automotive real estate for passengers, the W engines could also muscle in on the V-8 engine's traditional position in the pecking order of under-hood prestige. 
 The W engines -- there are 12- and 16-cylinder derivatives, too -- are part of an array of engine designs, sizes and even shapes that power current vehicles, some of which have been tailored to meet goals not apparent at first glance.
 As a result of all this innovation, the choices to be considered in a new car purchase are no longer a simple matter of deciding between an in-line six cylinder or a V-8, as it was for most vehicles of a generation or two ago. Today, buyers can shop for cylinders like bologna -- purchasing 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10 or more -- to suit their driving needs. 
 The family of engines with their cylinders arranged in a W configuration is among the latest solutions devised to fit more cylinders in less space. The most extreme extension of this design is the 16-cylinder, eight-liter, quadruple-turbocharger engine of the 2005 Bugatti Veyron 16.4, which arrives in the United States next spring wearing an expected price tag of $1.2 million. 
 The Veyron's 987-horsepower W-16 is directly related to 8- and 12-cylinder versions used by three other VW brands: Audi, Bentley and Volkswagen. Interestingly, the company that earned a loyal following by building simple, economical automobiles now offers some of the most complex engines designed for road use.
 Before delving into what makes this new W engine worth the engineering effort it required, here is a brief survey of the most common engine configurations produced today. 
 In-line engines, with cylinders arranged in a single row, are offered in three-, four-, five- and six-cylinder variations. In-line four's, which account for a quarter of the engines sold in the United States in 2002, according to WardsAuto.com, provide an excellent blend of low cost and good fuel economy. 
 However, as automakers expand displacement of four-cylinder engines to increase power output, vibration levels increase, too. Some automakers employ a system of balance shafts to counteract the engine's natural shaking forces; this mechanism is needed to civilize the W-8 and some V-6 engines, too. 
 Adding cylinders to an in-line design is an efficient way for automakers to offer variety, as the added family members can be machined on the same production lines. Volvo uses an in-line five, and produces four- and six-cylinder siblings based on the same architecture. In-line six-cylinder engines offer the benefit of being inherently vibration-free, which is part of the reason BMW has made this layout its signature power plant. 
 After abandoning in-line sixes in favor of V-6's, General Motors recently revived the in-line layout for S.U.V. use. Four- and five-cylinder versions of the engine -- basically shorter slices of the bologna -- are available in 2004 Chevy Colorado and GMC Canyon pickups. 
 The slim proportions of an in-line four make this design ideal for sideways installation (across the length of the car, rather than front-to-back) under the hood of compact models. The benefit of a narrow engine isn't lost when the car gets larger and graduates to more cylinders. A transversely mounted in-line engine frees up more "crush space" than a V, adding a safety margin in collisions, according to Volvo, which uses transverse in-line fives and sixes in its S80 sedan and XC90 sport utility.
 The V-engine configuration accounts for nearly two-thirds of all engine installations in the United States today, with V-6's being the most common. The dimensions of a V-6 engine -- only three cylinders long -- make for a convenient fit under the hoods of front-wheel-drive cars. 
 Market forces figure into automakers' plans, too. The appeal of an eight-cylinder engine -- dominated by the V-8 layout since the demise of the in-line 8 a half-century ago -- is an important factor for modern luxury cars, as well as for S.U.V.'s and trucks where horsepower is a top priority. Once a manufacturer perfects the internal components of a V-6 or V-8 engine, those same parts can serve in larger engines. For example, G.M. doubled its V-8 to make the engine for the Cadillac 16 concept car unveiled at the Detroit auto show last January.
 The V-10 engines under the hood of a Dodge Viper sports car and a Dodge Ram pickup vary in detail but the fundamental design is common to both. The highest reaches of the luxury and sports classes are populated by large-displacement V-12 engines, in cars built by Aston Martin, BMW, Ferrari, Lamborghini, Maybach, Mercedes-Benz and Rolls-Royce. 
 The opposed-cylinder design, often called a "boxer" or flat engine, is most familiar as the power behind the original VW Beetle. Following in those footsteps, Porsche and Subaru use flat engine layouts consisting of two horizontal banks of cylinders flanking a central crankshaft. Flat engines also help to lower the vehicle's center of gravity.
 Volkswagen began thinking outside the box of standard cylinder layouts two decades ago. By staggering the cylinder bores in the engine block in a zigzag arrangement -- like nestling the soda bottles on a refrigerator shelf, rather than lining them up side-by-side at their widest points -- VW engineers produced a 2.8-liter six-cylinder engine that was about the same length as a conventional two-liter in-line four. 
 The nestled cylinders made it possible to close up the engine's V angle between the cylinder banks from the normal 60 (or 90) degrees to only 15 degrees. VW called this unusual engine a VR-6 (for V-reihen, or V in-line in German) because it blended characteristics of both V and in-line engines. The payoff was the ability to package six cylinders transversely under the hoods of cars originally designed for four-cylinder power plants.
 The space-saving VR-6 philosophy has since been incorporated into new designs. To fit eight cylinders into existing models originally designed with V-6 space under the hood, VW engineers positioned two banks of four zigzag cylinders in a 72-degree V. The new layout is called W-8 because the end view loosely resembles two conjoined V engines. The savings in length permits a four-liter, 270-horsepower, eight-cylinder engine to fit longitudinally under the hood of a midsize VW Passat without the need for a revamping of the car's structure. 
 While they were at it, VW engineers stretched the W concept further, yielding a 450-horsepower W-12 for the Audi A8 (coming to the United States in 2005), a twin-turbocharged 552-horsepower version of the same engine for the Bentley Continental GT and a no-complexity-barred W-16 for the Bugatti Veyron 16.4.
 As might be expected, there is no free lunch in engine design. Squeeze the cylinder package in one direction and something squirts out in another dimension. The 12-cylinder W engines are significantly wider than conventional V-12's, and routing the flow of the intake and exhaust systems is a plumber's nightmare.
 Do not bother to speculate over possible X-engines as the next step in the alphabetic progression: they have already been built, by Henry Ford, in the 1920's.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A 987-horsepower W-16 engine will power the $1.2 million Bugatti Veyron 16.4. Chart/Diagram: "Engines Packaged for a Just-Right Fit"A selection of engine layouts lets automakers choose a design that best fits the space under the hood. Most four-cylinder engines align the pistons in a single row (in-line) though some use an opposed-cylinder layout to minimize height. A V-shaped layout, typically with six or eight cylinders arranged in two rows at an angle to each other, yields a more compact package. The W engine, a recent development by Volkswagen, pairs two sets of V cylinders, side-by-side, in 8-, 12- and 16-cylinder designs. Diagram of a W-8 engine, highlighting the engine block, crankshaft, and balance shafts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW PRODUCTS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ENGINEERING (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); FAMILY (70%) Automobiles

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN AG (93%)

TICKER: VOW3 (FRA) (93%); VKW (LSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%)

PERSON: Don Sherman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003 



41 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: French Diplomats Go on Strike To Protest Planned Budget Cuts 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 1 

 BODY:
Thousands of French diplomats and Foreign Ministry staff members went on strike on Monday, slowing work at the country's far-flung foreign services and even shutting down some embassies and consulates in protest over proposed budget cuts.
 The strike was the first of its kind for the stately Quai d'Orsay, as the ministry is known, and is a measure of the difficulty the French government faces in trying to trim its welfare-sodden budget. France has repeatedly breached its obligations under European Union accords to keep the country's deficit below 3 percent of its gross domestic product. 
 The Foreign Ministry fields about 5,000 people in 154 embassies, 98 consulates and nearly 500 cultural offices and French-language schools around the world.
While senior diplomats enjoy such perks as well-stocked wine cellars and grand homes, the rank and file complain that scrimping has eroded their effectiveness. "After years and years of economizing that have hit this ministry," the leader of the six-union syndicate leading the strike, Louis Dominici, said on French television on Monday, "they're asking us to go further -- that is, to no longer have the means to do our job."
The proposed 2004 budget, which was debated Monday in the Senate, would cut the Foreign Ministry's operating budget by nearly 2 percent, losing 116 jobs through attrition and trimming diplomatic housing allowances by $24 million. More than 100 ministry employees demonstrated in front of the Senate building late on Monday while Foreign Minister Dominique de Villepin defended the budget against further cuts inside. 
The extent of the 24-hour walkout on Monday varied according to the source. The ministry said only that the labor action was observed "in varying proportions at practically all posts," while the ministry's leading union, known as the UNSA-USMAE, reported that 94 percent of the ministry's employees took part in it.
"We haven't actually counted people," said Roger Ferrari, the Foreign Ministry representative for the Unitary Union Federation, one of the unions involved. He said half of the ministry's employees went on strike for the day.
Some did so in the most diplomatic of ways: Renaud Vignal, France's ambassador to Indonesia, declared himself on strike though he went to work anyway. But others stayed away in such numbers that their offices closed: the French Embassy in Islamabad, Pakistan, was reported closed for at least part of the day, as was the French Consulate in the Belgian city of Liege.
The walkout brought derisive hoots from some critics of French foreign policy, which has been at odds withthat of the United States, particularly over the war in Iraq. "Here's one French strike we can wholeheartedly support," declared The Wall Street Journal's editorial page. "The world deserves -- nay, needs -- less French diplomacy." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (93%); STRIKES (91%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); IRAQ WAR (65%) FOREIGN SERVICE; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; STRIKES 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (58%) SMITH, CRAIG S 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



42 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: Canada's View on Social Issues Is Opening Rifts With the U.S. 

BYLINE:  By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Dec. 1 

 BODY:
Canadians and Americans still dress alike, talk alike, like the same books, television shows and movies, and trade more goods and services than ever before. But from gay marriage to drug use to church attendance, a chasm has opened up on social issues that go to the heart of fundamental values.
 A more distinctive Canadian identity -- one far more in line with European sensibilities -- is emerging and generating new frictions with the United States. 
 "Being attached to America these days is like being in a pen with a wounded bull," Rick Mercer, Canada's leading political satirist, said at a recent show in Toronto. "Between the pot smoking and the gay marriage, quite frankly it's a wonder there is not a giant deck of cards out there with all our faces on it." 
Mr. Mercer acknowledged in an interview that he was overstating the case for laughs -- two Canadian provinces have legalized gay marriage, and Ottawa has moved to decriminalize use of small amounts of marijuana. But in the view of many experts the two countries are heading in different directions, at least for the time being.
Recent disagreements over trade, drugs and the war in Iraq, where Canada has refused to send troops, has made the relationship more contentious and Canadians increasingly outspoken about the things that separate them from their American neighbors.
"The two countries are sounding more different -- after 9/11, dramatically more different," noted Gil Troy, an American historian who teaches at McGill University in Montreal. "You hear a lot more static and you see more brittleness."
Of course there have been frictions before, for instance during the Vietnam War, when Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau welcomed American draft evaders, but the differences in those years were more political than social. Analysts say that Canada and the United States have always been similar yet different, and that the differences are often accentuated at the margins.
But today, many analysts and ordinary Canadians said in interviews around the country, the differences appear to have moved center stage, particularly in social and cultural values.
The nations remain like-minded in pockets, but the center of gravity in each has changed. French-speaking Quebec, with nearly a quarter of the population and its open social attitudes, pulls Canada to the left, just as the South and Bible Belt increasingly pull the United States in the opposite direction, particularly on issues like abortion, gay marriage and capital punishment.
None of those have resonated much over the last decade in Canada, where the consensus on social policy seems more solidly formed, its fissures narrower and less exploitable.
Chris Ragan, a McGill University economist, observed: "You can be a social conservative in the U.S. without being a wacko. Not in Canada."
Drugs are one point of departure. A bill to decriminalize small amounts of marijuana is working its way through the lower house of Parliament, bringing threats from the White House that such a law could slow trade at the border.
Recently, while musing about his retirement plans, Prime Minister Jean Chretien said he might just kick back and smoke some pot. "I will have my money for my fine and a joint in the other hand," he said with a smile. The glibness of the remark made it nearly impossible to imagine an American president uttering it. But in a nation where the dominant west coast city, Vancouver, has come to be known as Vansterdam, few Canadians blinked.
When Massachusetts's highest court ruled for gay marriage, the issue loomed over American politics. Conservatives vowed to change the Constitution. President Bush said he would defend marriage. Even the major Democratic presidential candidates backed away from supporting gay marriage outright.
Contrast that with Canada, where two provincial courts issued similar rulings this year. With little anguish, Canada became only the third country -- after the Netherlands and Belgium -- to allow same-sex marriage as a matter of civil rights.
Canadians themselves are not wholly united on the issue. Most elderly and rural Canadians express reservations, and the Canadian Anglican Church is almost as divided over homosexuality as the American Episcopal Church. Still, Canadians remain tolerant of the shift.
More than 1,500 gay and lesbian couples have married since the court rulings. "The Canadian reaction to same-sex marriage has been mostly positive," said Neil Bissoondath, an acclaimed Trinidadian-born Canadian novelist and social critic. 
But the same issue in the United States "has upset the fundamentalist Christians who drive a lot of the politics in the country, especially with the present administration in power," Mr. Bissoondath added.
Rachel Brickner, 29, a political science graduate student at McGill originally from Detroit, said that despite her own liberal views, she sometimes tired of the anti-Americanism she encountered among Canadian students.
After the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, she said, an old roommate told her that "the U.S. deserved 9/11 because we're bullies."
"Canadians are quick to blame the United States for not knowing about Canada," she said, "but Canadians make a lot of ignorant statements about the U.S." No Canadian city reveals differences as much as Vancouver. It looks like any American city, except for a drug culture that is so abundantly open. The police rarely interfere with bars, storefronts and even offices where people can buy or smoke marijuana. A "compassion club" distributes marijuana legally to cancer patients and others who have doctors' notes.
The city opened a publicly financed and supervised injection site for heroin users in September. The federal government, meanwhile, is preparing to start an experimental heroin distribution program for addicts in Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver in 2004.
The changes in marriage and drug laws, said Michael Adams, a Toronto consultant and polling expert, "means Canada is moving in the opposite direction with the United States and closer to Europe."
In his new book "Fire and Ice: The United States, Canada and the Myth of Converging Values," he argues that greater Canadian tolerance reflects a fundamental difference in outlook about everthing from the ethnic and linguistic diversity of immigrants to the relative status of the sexes.
Mr. Adams notes that weekly church attendance among Canadians has plummeted since the 1950's while American church attendance has remained virtually constant.
To many commentators the two countries seem to be exchanging their traditional roles, one founded in America's birth as a revolutionary country and Canada's as a counterrevolutionary alternative.
During the Depression, under the New Deal of Franklin D. Roosevelt, the United States was the progressive force, while Canada stubbornly held on to conservative economic policies. 
By the mid-1960's, though, Canada shifted to a far more activist government, moving to a national health insurance system. Not long afterward, the Vietnam War began siphoning popularity from the Great Society experiment of President Johnson. The trends have only widened since.
Not all analysts see a big, lasting divergence. Some like Peter Jennings, the ABC News broadcaster who was born in Toronto and became a dual American and Canadian citizen in May, believe that Canadians have actually drawn closer to Americans. Nevertheless, Mr. Jennings said Canada had become "a socially more relaxed kind of place."
"Canada, as it is with some of the European countries," he added, "is trying to balance some of the market forces with public policy, which is not as apparent in the United States, where the pursuit of happiness and individualism are very much alive."
Still, a cultural gulf is widening.
"In the 70's we were taught Canada would be absorbed by the United States, and in the 80's it looked like it was happening," recalled Douglas Coupland, the Canadian author known for his cultural commentaries on both sides of the border. "Then came the latter part of the 90's and it was like some high school class 16-millimeter film where you see the chromosome duplicates, then realigns, and finally the cell splits.
"And that process only seems to be quickening in recent months."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Among the establishments catering to marijuana users on this street in Vancouver is the British Columbia Marijuana Party Bookstore.; Members of the British Columbia Compassion Club in Vancouver, who have their doctors' permission to smoke marijuana to alleviate medical symptoms, in the club's smoking room one day recently. (Photographs by Bayne Stanley for The New York Times)(pg. A16) Chart: "A Common Border, Different Opinions"Polls find that Americans and Canadians do not always see eye to eye on social issues. Marriage is more satisfying if . . . Both hold jobs, share household, childcare duties.CANADA: 66%U.S.: 58% Husband is sole support of the family.CANADA: 16%U.S.: 26% Homosexuality should be accepted by society NoCANADA: 26%U.S.:42% YesCANADA: 69%U.S.: 51% It is necessary to believe in God to be moral NoCANADA: 68%U.S.: 40% YesCANADA: 30%U.S.: 58% Questions from June 2003 report by the Pew Research Center for People and the Press using data from telephone interviews with 500 adults in Canada, July 16-24, 2002, by Environics and 1,501 adults in the United States, Aug. 19 to Sept. 8, 2002, by Princeton Data Source. (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (91%); CANNABIS (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); TRENDS (77%); MARRIAGE LAW (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); LITERATURE (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); ABORTION (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); LEGISLATION (68%); HISTORY (66%); VIETNAM WAR (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HOMOSEXUALITY; MARRIAGES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; MARIJUANA; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; PUBLIC OPINION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ADAMS, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (90%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (90%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) CANADA; MASSACHUSETTS; EUROPE

TITLE: ;FIRE AND ICE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



43 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Rumsfeld Calls Peril in Iraq, Along With Progress, a 'Contradiction' 

BYLINE:  By THOM SHANKER 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Dec. 1 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld acknowledged Monday that the security environment in Iraq presented "a contradiction" in which attacks from "a limited number" of adversaries continued to kill or wound American and allied forces even as schools and hospitals open and the economy stabilized.
 Joining Mr. Rumsfeld at a NATO defense ministers meeting here, Gen. Peter Pace, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, spoke of a grim lesson for America's foes that emerged from the ambush on Sunday of an Army convoy in Samarra. 
 "They attacked and they were killed," General Pace said of the heavy firefight that military officials reported left anywhere from 46 to 54 of their adversaries dead, many wearing black uniforms similar to those of Saddam Hussein's fedayeen militia. "So I think it will be instructive to them."
Mr. Rumsfeld spent most of Monday in meetings with Atlantic alliance defense ministers discussing other issues, including how to strengthen the NATO role in Afghanistan, and fending off questions about whether European military planning challenged NATO's dominance over the Continent's security.
But the complex stabilization mission in Iraq was a recurring topic, with senior alliance officials saying that defense ministers discussed ways to provide further support to the multinational division in southern Iraq, now led by a Polish general. But there were no specific proposals for NATO's taking over command of any units in Iraq, officials said.
"What you have is a contradiction," Mr. Rumsfeld said at an afternoon news conference when asked his assessment of the current security situation in Iraq. "There is no question but that there are periodic incidents where people are being killed and wounded -- we know that.
"We also know that the schools are open, that the hospitals are open, the clinics are open; that people are engaged in economic activity throughout the country; and that the vast majority of the country is not in conflict."
He said attacks were mounted by "a limited number of people who were determined to kill innocent men, women and children." Those foes, he said, are "being rounded up, captured, killed, wounded and interrogated." He also responded with cautious, even subdued, comments when asked repeatedly about the European defense proposal and was joined by Lord Robertson, the NATO secretary general, in saying that the European Union had not given NATO a final decision.
Diplomats here said the latest European proposal called for a military planning team to join NATO's headquarters in southern Belgium and for an increase in its own strategic planning staff, a retreat from some broader proposals that some feared might be viewed as rivaling NATO.
Mr. Rumsfeld stressed NATO's primacy in European security tasks but said he was open to proposals that did not duplicate or compete with alliance efforts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (92%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARMIES (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); TERRORISM (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); POLITICS (61%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (58%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) SHANKER, THOM; RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



44 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: VANISHING POINT; 
In Kansas, a Growing Phone Company Helps Keep a Small Prairie Town Alive

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: LENORA, Kan. 

 BODY:
Highway 9 hurries past drought-ravaged prairie where nothing remains but petrified plows and weather-scorched relics of stores. Trees have retaken little Densmore and squeezed the life from its stately old Free Methodist Church. In Edmond, the hinges of an outhouse door whine in the wind.
 But in Lenora, the great engine of commerce still turns. In the middle of Main Street, a sleek low building of khaki and brown brick spreads the length of a block and most of its depth. "Rural Telephone Service Company," the blue canopy says. Three blocks away, the two-story brick fortress of the senior and junior high school was vacated with the 2001 graduating class of 10. Today the name on the front says "Rural Telephone Plant Department." 
 Karen Coffman, the owner of Karen's Cafe, said, "I believe if Rural Telephone wasn't here, we would have nothing."
The population of the 18 contiguous northwestern Kansas counties that make up most of the telephone company's expanding terrain dropped an average of 17 percent in 20 years, to 100,000, the 2000 Census found, and has kept falling since. But for a decade, Lenora's population of 305 has been holding, and Rural Telephone's keeps growing, to 240 today from 50 a decade ago. Sixty employees work in the Main Street headquarters, the others in Hays, Norton, Osborne, Great Bend and Dodge City.
Through decades of population decline in the Great Plains, rural communities sought remedies from government and courted outside corporations to send them factories and offices. The corporations sent pig-feeding and meatpacking plants, telemarketing and data entry shops, and paid the minimum wage. 
"What they got was a race to the bottom," said Chuck Fluharty, director of the Rural Policy Research Institute at the University of Missouri, "with tax giveaways, the lowest wages and the most destruction to the environment." And then, when the economy stalled a couple of years ago, many of those jobs, too, disappeared.
More commonly now, communities are nursing their own indigenous seedlings -- small entrepreneurs and old businesses with new ideas that bring back the young, bring in investment and revive Main Street. 
Most of these businesses are minuscule compared with the titans of corporate America. Just a few, like Gateway Computer in South Dakota and Phillips Petroleum in Bartlesville, Okla., have become titans themselves. But in scattered small towns of the prairie, one vigorous little enterprise -- a hotel, a store, a propane dealer, a software writer -- can make the difference between dissolution and survival.
The deck is still stacked against those who would become the new Gateways, Mr. Fluharty said, because the tools -- like loans, roads and airports, and schools to train workers -- are not there. Rural Telephone, however, helps with telecommunications. As it grows, it is lacing this region with technologies like digital cable television, wireless and high-speed Internet connections and fiber-optic cables instead of copper wire, which lubricate other pioneers' attempts to expand. 
As Larry E. Sevier, 60, chief executive and general manager, builds Rural Telephone, he is bringing young people back to the rural Plains. Some come from vanishing family farms. Web page designers, software writers and computer technicians have come back from Denver, Omaha and Silicon Valley. Some are new immigrants.
The company's central office manager, Dennis Johnson, 42, supervises the company's 31 switching centers. He grew up in Minnesota, worked in Chicago, married, and moved to Galesburg, Ill., to work for the Sprint Corporation. Five years ago he moved to Logan, a 25-minute drive east of Lenora.
Since moving, Mr. Johnson said, "We discuss population decline quite a bit." He and his wife worry about whether remote regional schools will swallow up Logan's. 
Doctors and dentists are also a concern. "There are small hospitals in towns like Norton and Hays," he said. "But when you need an expert, you might have to go to Wichita or Omaha," more than five hours by car. 
So two years ago, Mr. Johnson submitted his resignation. "Then I went home and said, 'Wait a minute. Why are we doing this? We have a good home, a good community, friends.' The next morning I went back. 'May I have my resignation back please?' We like it here. We're comfortable here.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Larry Feldt lays fiber-optic cable for the Rural Telephone Service Company in Kansas. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION DECLINE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); DROUGHT (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); POPULATION SIZE (72%); WRITERS (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); CENSUS (69%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (64%); TELEMARKETING (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); PROPANE (60%); FUEL DEALERS (50%) SURVEYS AND SERIES; POPULATION; POPULATION SHIFTS 

COMPANY: RURAL TELEPHONE SERVICE CO INC (84%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (62%); TELECOM AS (60%); GATEWAY INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: RURAL TELEPHONE SERVICE CO 

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (62%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (62%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (62%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (62%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (62%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (62%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (62%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (62%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (51%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%)

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) GREAT PLAINS (US); KANSAS; LENORA (KAN)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



45 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-18

As G.I.'s Fight Insurgents, Anti-Americanism Grows
American commanders vowed that the killing of as many as 54 insurgents in Iraq would serve as a lesson, but Iraqis disputed the death toll and said anger against the United States would only rise. As the Americans step up pressure on rebels, the very Iraqis they are trying to win over may be alienated. A1

Mideast Peace Plan Celebrated
To prove that peace in the Middle East is possible, self-appointed Israeli and Palestinian negotiators met in Geneva to celebrate an unofficial agreement that would create a Palestinian state and resolve other contentious issues. A8

Israeli troops killed three Hamas militants and a boy while arresting almost 30 suspects during house-to-house searches in the West Bank city of Ramallah. A8

Russia's Business of Politics
Big businesses in Russia, from oil giants to banks to manufacturers, have become by far the most influential force in elections. They have not only poured money into the parliamentary elections to be held on Sunday, but have also filled party tickets with dozens of their own executives. A3

Georgian Secessionists Meet
The leaders of three regions in Georgia have been meeting with Russian officials, raising questions about Russia's intentions and concerns about possible Georgian instability. A6

Loans to Indonesia Increased
The World Bank has decided to increase its loans to Indonesia, even though corruption is still rampant. The bank said that the country had too many poor people and that the loans would "spur the momentum of reforms." A18

A Canada-U.S. Social Rift
A more distinctive Canadian identity is emerging -- one far more in line with European sensibilities -- and generating new frictions with the United States over issues ranging from drug use to church attendance to gay marriage. A1

NATIONAL A20-29

States That Backed Bush Gain in Electoral Votes
Because of changes in population, if President Bush carries the same states in 2004 that he won in 2000, he would win seven additional electoral votes. The White House and Democrats say the prospect is shaping next year's presidential race. A24

Colorado Redistricting Fails
The Colorado Supreme Court rejected a Republican effort to redraw the state's Congressional map to the party's advantage, handing Democrats a victory in the first of a series of legal fights that could determine political control of the House. A26

New Death Penalty Review
The Supreme Court agreed to decide whether its decision that overturned the death penalty laws of five states 18 months ago should be applied retroactively. A29

Ex-Governor's Trial Begins
A lawyer for William J. Janklow, who is on trial for manslaughter, said his client was probably confused and disoriented because of a medical condition when he killed a motorcyclist. A20

Cubans on Trial in Florida
The United States began its prosecution of six Cubans accused of trying to hijack a plane to Florida, saying they used brute force and weapons to overwhelm a flight crew. A20

Cincinnati Reminded of Riots
A black man died in Cincinnati after being clubbed by police officers in a case that has renewed racial tensions in the city. A20

Bush Pressed on Steel Tariffs
With the White House signaling that President Bush would lift tariffs on foreign steel, American steelmakers declared that he should resist threats of retaliation from Europe. A20

Church Volunteers Face Checks
Catholic dioceses around the country are at various stages of investigating their volunteers and employees. The scrutiny is part of efforts by the nation's bishops to repair the damage from the clerical sexual abuse scandal and to reassure members that children are safe in the church's hands. B1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Bloomberg Administration Seeks a New Trash Plan
The Bloomberg administration has concluded that its plan to compact the city's residential trash and export it will take much longer and cost nearly twice as much as previously projected. Officials say they are once again looking for new ideas. A1

Ship Plan Infuriates Unions
Representative Tom DeLay's proposal to use a cruise ship as a hotel and entertainment center during the Republican National Convention next summer has infuriated local labor unions and given New York Democrats an issue. B3

America's Oldest Man
Fred Hale Sr., of upstate New York, celebrated his 113th birthday yesterday. He has held the title of America's oldest male since Feb. 25. B5

Neediest Cases B6

FASHION B9

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Virtual Exam Just as Good
A new study finds that virtual colonoscopy, a method that uses a C.T. scanner for colon cancer screening, can be just as effective as traditional colonoscopy in finding polyps, the mushroomlike growths from which most cancers arise. F5

Health & Fitness F5

ARTS E1-12

OBITUARIES B7-8

SPORTS D1-7

Conference's First Black Coach
Sylvester Croom accepted the position of head football coach at Mississippi State, becoming the first black to fill the role in the 71-year-old Southeastern Conference. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Boeing Chief Resigns
The Boeing Company said that its chief executive, Philip M. Condit, had resigned. The company's share of the aircraft market is falling and its reputation is tarnished by charges of ethical misconduct. A1

Manufacturing Activity Surges
American manufacturing activity shot up to its highest level in 20 years last month as factories indicated a readiness to expand their work forces for the first time in three years. A1

Disney Board Member Quits
A second member of the board of Walt Disney quit while calling loudly for the resignation of the chief executive, Michael D. Eisner. C1

New Auto Safety Plan
The auto industry is set to announce a new plan to redesign vehicles in a way that mitigates the dangers sport utilities and pickups pose to passenger cars. C5

Time Out Expands to Chicago
Time Out New York, the entertainment listings publication, has decided to expand to Chicago. The magazine had many skeptics when it began eight years ago. C8

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A30-31

Editorials: Trading favors; church, state and education; a fine, unofficial Mideast peace deal; bobbing aloof from the Apple.

Columns: Paul Krugman, David Brooks.

Crossword E4
Weather D8
Public Lives B2
TV Listings E11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); REDISTRICTING (88%); MANSLAUGHTER (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HAMAS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); LITIGATION (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); POLITICS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); FOREIGN LENDING (70%); CORRUPTION (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); APPEALS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (62%); LAWYERS (61%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (53%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (53%); MARRIAGE (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (92%); CANADA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); INDONESIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



46 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2091 words

HEADLINE: VANISHING POINT; 
Bucking Trend, They Stay on Plains, Held by Family and Friends

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: REYDON, Okla. 

 BODY:
Tornadoes, droughts and the brutal busts after gas and oil booms have chased people from western Oklahoma for decades. Settlement after settlement has crumbled into the red-slate soil. Others hang on, barely.
 In Reydon, population 161, a turtle crosses Main Street unscathed. 
 And yet after 70 years of flight from the rural Great Plains, a resolute core of people just will not go. They are people like David and Berla Barton, both 45, owners of a three-bedroom white stucco bungalow on Fifth Avenue, where spider plants hang over the patio, an orphaned black calf lies in a shed and eight fishing rods line a wall of the garage. 
One Sunday at noon, cars pulled up and dogs yelped. Michael Barton, 17, stopped watching car races on television with his brother Zack, 15, to take the carrot cake he had made from the oven. Mrs. Barton loaded the kitchen counter with mashed potatoes, corn and a beef roast from the crockpot and arranged chairs around the long oak dining table that her father, Joe Handke, had built.
"Grandma, Grandma," said Maddie, coming in from Cheyenne, the county seat 18 miles away, with the Bartons' oldest son, Chris, and his wife, Janet, both 23, and their infant son, Trent. Four years old, possessed by her plan to be an angel ballerina on Halloween, Maddie asked: "Do you have a purple dress? With wings?" A daughter, Sarah Barton, and her boyfriend, Justin Batterton, both 21, arrived from outside Cheyenne.
As the plows of depopulation and decay slice through the Plains, these are the people who remain. Many would never think of moving. Some are too old or unskilled to have a choice. Many families -- like the Bartons, the Yowells, the Calverts and the Lippencotts in Reydon -- have members who do go away, for the Army, maybe, or college, and then come back to build new generations.
Blessing or trap, the lure invariably is family -- the family ranch, the homestead, the business, the assurance of help with a job. Sociologists and demographers do not know whether families like the Bartons are the stragglers of an exodus who will finally be swept away, too, or whether, like the survivors of fires and floods before them, they will adapt and hold on.
"You have a general regional trend of depopulation," Leonard Bloomquist, head of the sociology department at Kansas State University, said. "But you do have families that are making viable communities and carving out a niche for themselves."
One old reason to stay -- pursuit of the bigger-is-better American dogma of progress and growth -- fits Reydon like a glove on a goat. "They make a conscious choice of what kind of lifestyle they want," Mr. Bloomquist said. "They just don't want to go to the maximum-achievement approach. A lot of this is tied to a pioneer spirit, to making a go of it."
In polls of Great Plains communities, Jim Sylvester, director of survey operations at the Bureau of Business and Economic Research at the University of Montana, asks people why they stay. "Forty percent say their family keeps them there," he said. "That's the big one." In urban areas, he said, 40 percent say their jobs are No. 1. 
To make it in Reydon, people rely on one another. Bonds among families and neighbors supply the economic energy that used to come from small farmers, big employers, government offices, Main Street services and stores and, ages ago, streams of new settlers.

The Make-Do Economy
In this make-do economy, you pay a mother-in-law something to baby-sit, just not a lot. You leave a note when you enter an unlocked house and take something. Pauline McNeil, 80, the retired postmistress and widow of a carpenter, sews. "I don't charge for it," she said. "Someone will say, 'I've got a pair of pants that's too big.' "
No one need buy maternity clothes. They are delivered to the doorstep, worn and dropped on another doorstep. In Reydon, families put the surplus from backyard gardens inside the post office door, for others to take. Cousins fill in for cousins who call in sick. You try to get a job with a telephone company, utility or oil field company, because then you get a truck to take home.
Families squabble, but with three people per square mile in Roger Mills County, they need not cross paths. "If there's someone you don't get along with," Mrs. Barton said, "you just don't go by their house."
Places like Reydon have "high social capital," said Curtis Suffernahn, a sociologist and co-director of the Center for Rural Studies at the University of North Dakota. 
"In the Plains, it's a sustaining feature of life," Mr. Suffernahn said. "It's built on reciprocity and trust. You do favors without expecting you will be repaid, but you know you will be repaid by someone."
People who linger can be said to have made an economically irrational choice, said Karl Stauber, chief executive of the Northwest Area Foundation, an organization in St. Paul that promotes ways to foster community revival. In this view, he said, "anyone with any get-up-and-go has already gone."
"There's another way to look at it," Mr. Stauber said. "These are folks who value family and an economically simple life. People are taken care of. What you see are decentralized, informal systems that sometimes deliver services better" than growing communities with government services and large employers.
Still, for these places, there is a breaking point. "Schools close or you can't get an ambulance," Mr. Stauber said. "Opportunities become so limited, people have to choose between subsistence and leaving, and they leave."
Stuart and Kimberly Sander in Cheyenne, population 718 and dropping, fear facing such a choice.
"We wanted to give our kids the same opportunities we had," said Mr. Sander, who is 34 and senior vice president of Security State Bank. "Out here, people are more content with what they have. I have a good job. I'm home every night to see my kids. I'm very happy with that."
But all around the county, schools keep shrinking and consolidating. "They're just not doing your kids a service," Mr. Sander said. "I'm very worried about this place, this bank, what this town will be."

The Town
The families of Roger Mills County live in an America without trains, planes or buses, and an hour's drive to a road with more than two lanes. The county, with a population of 3,300, has lost 30 percent of its people since the oil bust of the 1980's.
Reydon has five streets going north and south and six going east and west, including Main Street. The post office, the firehouse, the American Legion building and Kay Danks's tax preparation office are clustered at the east end of Main.
In the middle, across from Shirley Dyer's abandoned gasoline station with a tornado-wrung roof, is Tennery's beef-jerky plant. At the west end is the cinder-block Hilltop Cafe, with a 7-Up sign in front. The Wednesday special is brown beans, ham and coleslaw, for $2.95.
These days, the seven tables with 36 seats fill up at noon, with retirees, hunters, oil and gas field workers and cowboys from the ranches. At one table, Coby Lippencott, 28, and Jerry Burks, 44, dug into burgers and fries. Both raise cattle and work as natural-gas compression mechanics in the oil field. Mr. Lippencott graduated from Southwestern Oklahoma State University. Mr. Burks finished high school.
"There's always a reason people come back here," Mr. Lippencott said, "not just because they want to. There's parents and grandparents that leave them something. My family's been here forever. We farm and ranch. The reason people leave, if they don't have parents or grandparents to help support them, then they leave. By the time I graduated from college, my grandparents bought a house and some land. Somebody had to live in the house. It was free. It always comes back to grandparents."

The Family
David Barton is a wiry man with thinning hair and a laugh that bursts like a thunderclap. As a student at Reydon High School, he found part-time work in the oil field. "I worked at night," he said. "I was making more money than the teachers."
A year after he graduated, he married Berla Handke, a classmate. Mrs. Barton quit nursing school so they could move to the oil fields of Wyoming. She became pregnant with Chris, so they returned to the oil fields here.
"Things were good," Mr. Barton said. "We bought a house, new vehicles." Sarah was born. A week later, Mrs. Barton was in the hospital with an infection. Mr. Barton visited. "He said, 'Honey, I just lost my job,' " Mrs. Barton said. "He went on unemployment." They lost their home.
"We had to sit down and rethink our position," Mr. Barton said.
With the 1980's oil bust, 14 percent of the county bailed out, but the Bartons stayed. "It got to where it was more important to be close to home than to be away and make plenty of money," Mr. Barton said.
The ad-hoc economy kicked in. A farmer gave them a house for a year, rent free, in return for cleaning it up. Mr. Barton became a hunting guide in the fall and a carpenter in winter. Mostly, though, he trades cows and calves. He drives up to 300 miles a day tending cattle scattered over 4,000 acres heleases.
In a typical year, he earns about $16,000. Some years, when cattle prices plunge, he earns less than $10,000, and one year in the 1990's, he made nothing. In down years, he exchanges farm work and carpentry for cattle feed. "Or if I'm running a little short," he said, "my neighbor will sell me some hay and let me pay when I sell my calves. You can make a man-to-man deal for a vehicle and go ahead and pay when times get good."
Eight years ago, the Bartons had saved enough to buy their current home, for $4,500. It needs a new roof. But with a bedroom for each boy, its wood stove, outbuildings and patio, it is an amiable middle-class home that could be anywhere.
Still, with four children, making a living was a struggle. So five years ago, Mrs. Barton went to back to school to become a licensed practical nurse.
Now she earns about $22,000 a year working in the maternity ward of a hospital in Clinton, 62 miles away.
With that and good cattle prices, the Bartons are having a good year. Mr. Barton cleared $28,000 this summer raising and trading calves. They are passing the windfall around.
They bought Michael and Zack $2,000 Kawasaki motorcycles. They bought the clapboard house next door for $7,500. They are renting it for $400 a month until one of the children wants it. 
Janet and Chris are now settling into the make-do economy. Chris had gone to college for a year expecting to become a teacher. But he dropped out to take a full-time, full-benefits job as a lineman with the Northfork Electric Co-op in Cheyenne.
With a mortgage and a third child due soon, he has to hustle for other jobs. "I own a hay truck," he said, "and in the summer time, I'll haul square bales of hay. In the fall, we cut firewood and haul it to Pampa, Tex., where they don't have trees. I help a guy in a taxidermy shop. We mount deer, bobcats, coyotes, elk. We build fences." He and his partner won a bid this year to clear neglected lots in Cheyenne for $1,500.
Soon Janet is going to work, too. She has started classes to become a licensed practical nurse, like her mother-in-law.
Everyone else in the family works. Sarah is a loan office secretary at a bank in Sayre, about 40 miles away. Michael and Zack have after-school jobs as farm hands that pay $5 an hour, plus meals on Saturdays.
Michael and Zack, unlike many of Reydon's young, expect to remain nearby. Next year, Michael plans to go to a vocational-technical college to become a mechanic and welder. He doubts he will live in Reydon, but does not expect to move far. 
Recruiters from Duke University in North Carolina have urged Zack to consider applying. He shrugs. He is thinking of somewhere cheaper and closer, and then a career in nuclear medicine, provided he can practice no farther than Elk City, 34 miles to the east-southeast. 
Mr. Barton said: "The main reason people stay is because it's where the family is. A lot of parents, if they make a place for their kids, they come back."
"It's just normal," he continued. "It's just normal to be here. If you're not accustomed to a real expensive lifestyle, you haven't lost anything."

Vanishing Point
This series is examining the effects of rural depopulation in and around the Great Plains. Articles yesterday focused on communities in Nebraska and Texas.
Interactive features with narration by Timothy Egan and Peter Kilborn, interviews from Superior, Neb.; Reydon, Okla., and Lenora, Kan., and more photographs, are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/rural

CORRECTION-DATE: December 4, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Tuesday about families that choose to remain on the Great Plains referred incompletely to a research center that tracks social trends in the Northern Plains. It is the Center for Rural Studies of the University of North Dakota and North Dakota State University, not just of the University of North Dakota. The article also misspelled the surname of a co-director there. He is Curtis Stofferahn, not Suffernahn.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Bartons, from left: Chris; Janet; Montana, a niece; Berla; David; Maddie; Michael holding Trent; Mercedes; Zack; and Sarah. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Many of the buildings on Main Street in Reydon, Okla., have been abandoned as the population has dwindled to 161 people.; The Barton family prepares for Sunday dinner, from left: Chris, children at play, Berla talking with her daughter Sarah, and David. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. A28) Map of Kansas highlighting Lenora: Towns like Reydon, Okla., and Lenora, Kan., are running out of people. (pg. A28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (91%); FAMILY (86%); SOCIOLOGY (85%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); COUNTIES (71%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); POPULATION DECLINE (58%); HALLOWEEN (50%) SURVEYS AND SERIES; POPULATION; POPULATION SHIFTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) GREAT PLAINS (US); REYDON (OKLA); 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



47 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Aftera Hard-Won Success in New York, Time Out Is Heading West to Chicago

BYLINE:  By DAVID CARR 

 BODY:
When Time Out New York made its debut in 1995, few in the media business thoughta paid weekly calendar of oh-so-current events could make its way in a city awash with publications offering entertainment listings, many of them free. Eight years later, ones much tougher and more expensive than anticipated, the New York version of Time Out London has carved out a profitable niche. So to celebrate, the Time Out Group has decided to fight the odds once again, this time in Chicago.
 The new magazine, named Time Out Chicago, naturally, is to begin publishing next September. The company, after failing to find a media company to help defray the punishing costs of acquiring subscribers, has found a partner in one of the failed bidders for Chicago magazine, Joe Mansueto, the founder and owner of Morningstar Inc., an investment research firm. 
 Executives at Time Out say they believe that they can conquer almost any large market with the magazine's tight focus on a core content - detailed, often cheeky listings put together by young, low-paid writers steeped in the city's culture - and a core audience of the advertiser-desirable cohort of college-educated consumers ages 18 to 34 who go out often. 
 "The number of venues and the number of events is right up there with New York," said Cyndi Stivers, president and editorial director of Time Out New York, who will help oversee the Chicago edition.
 "We help our readers get the most out of their city without wasting their time or money," she added. "I think there are plenty of people in Chicago who are ready for that."
 But while the formula may work in New York and abroad, getting people to plunk down $2.99 a week will be a tough sell in a market where the competition is well entrenched or free. 
 "From the point of view of the reader, the more the merrier," said Jane Levine, publisher of The Chicago Reader, a 32-year-old alternative weekly with two sections of listings every week. "They have been successful in a number of markets, but I don't think they have ever come into a market that does listings as well as we do."
 In addition to The Reader, Chicago has a much-used entertainment Web site called Metromix, operated by The Chicago Tribune. Some of its listings appear in print in RedEye, The Tribune's five-day-a-week publication aimed at young commuters. The other major newspaper in town, The Chicago Sun-Times, has listings of its own, and has, like The Tribune, started a newspaper skewed to the young, called Red Streak. And while it is a monthly, Chicago magazine has extensive restaurant and entertainment listings as well.
 Nonetheless, Time Out executives are confident of their expansion plans, and say they believe that the lessons they have learned in New York, often the hard way, will help them in Chicago. Tony Elliott, the chairman of the Time Out Group, founded Time Out London in 1968. He has since used the Time Out brand to publish guide books to various large cities, including Paris and Amsterdam, and has licensed the magazine's name for local versions in Moscow and Abu Dhabi. 
 He said he believed that his economic and journalistic model of a glossy annotation of cultural events would find readers in America, even though his first foray was in a city where 7 Days, a much-praised magazine with plenty of entertainment listings, had closed five years earlier after only two months of publication; the leading alternative weekly (The Village Voice) had just gone free; and the clutter of daily, weekly and monthly publications that cover metropolitan entertainments presented a significant barrier to entry. He even suggested at the time that the magazine would reach profitability in three years. 
 But the British model of reaching the majority of its audience through newsstand sales did not work, forcing the company to resort to a subscription model and the expensive, direct-mail efforts to obtain readers that entailed. 
 Over the first five years, the magazine had start-up costs of $18 million, much more than had been budgeted, according to Mr. Elliott. Costs have since stabilized, and the magazine projects a profit of $1.8 million this year on revenues of approximately $22 million. The magazine now has a paid circulation of 127,555, and only about 18,000 of those weekly sales are made at the newsstand. 
 In Chicago, the company intends to pursue subscriptions from the start, and is hedging its bets by bringing in a local financial partner. Mr. Mansueto is a co-owner of the new publication, although Time Out continues to hold a controlling interest.
 "They stumbled a few times," said Mark M. Edmiston of AdMedia Partners, a media investment bank Time Out retained to find financing for the Chicago expansion. "They tried to rely on selling single copies, and this is not a single-copy country. But they eventually got it right and created a very well-known brand."
 Three senior executives from Time Out New York - Ms. Stivers; Alison Tocci, the publisher; and Daniel P. Reilly, chief financial officer - will split their time between New York and Chicago in the initial stages. But Ms. Stivers emphasized that the editorial voice of the product would be indigenous.
 "I think that in the same way that Time Out London sounds like London and Time Out New York sounds like New York, Time Out Chicago will sound like Chicago," Ms. Stivers said. "We will be completely local."
 The company said it had hoped to expand earlier, but the effects of 9/11 and a generally depressed advertising market caused a delay.
 "A lot is happening at once," said Ms. Stivers, while stepping over construction debris last week at the magazine's new headquarters on 10th Avenue and 36th Street in New York. With its 20-foot-high windows framing Hudson River views, the new office is miles apart from the old downtown headquarters, where a chain link fence served as the entryway to a crowded warren of cubicles. In addition to the Chicago expansion, Time Out is going after pint-size hipsters locally with a quarterly called Time Out New York Kids, which will begin publishing in March. 
 Mr. Elliott said that Chicago was just one of several cities he hoped to capture.
 "I am a builder by nature," he said, mentioning that he thinks that cities like Singapore, Hong Kong and Sao Paulo present opportunities for expansion. "My first ambition for any of these magazines is they become self-funding and I think we try to make sure our ambitions are reasonable. We would never have thought of doing Chicago if New York wasn't stable."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 3, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the Advertising column in Business Day yesterday, about plans by the Time Out Group to start a magazine in Chicago, misstated the life span of 7 Days, a magazine that closed in 1990. It was two years, not two months.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cyndi Stivers, president and editorial director of Time Out New York, in the magazine's new office, under construction at 10th Avenue and 36th Street. A children's version of the magazine is planned for the spring. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times); Tony Elliott founded his prototype, Time Out London, in 1968. (Photo by Time Out Group) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (89%); WRITERS (75%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (75%) MAGAZINES

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (83%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TIME OUT GROUP; TIME OUT NEW YORK (MAGAZINE); TIME OUT CHICAGO (MAGAZINE); TIME OUT LONDON (MAGAZINE) 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: CARR, DAVID; ELLIOTT, TONY; STIVERS, CYNDI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



48 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Beating Death Renews Tension In Cincinnati 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: CINCINNATI, Dec. 1 

 BODY:
A black man died on Sunday after being clubbed repeatedly by officers in a videotaped beating that raised new accusations of police brutality against blacks in Cincinnati nearly three years after the city was rocked by riots.
 Mayor Charlie Luken said on Monday that the videotape of the incident showed that the nightstick-wielding officers were defending themselves. 
 The cause of death of the man, Nathaniel Jones, 41, was under investigation. But preliminary autopsy results showed that Mr. Jones, who weighed 350 pounds, had an enlarged heart and that his blood contained cocaine and PCP, or "angel dust," both of which can cause bizarre or aggressive behavior, said Carl Parrott, the Hamilton County coroner. 
Two black community leaders said Jones's death was another example of brutality by Cincinnati police officers. The fatal shooting of an unarmed black man by a white officer in April 2001 set off three nights of rioting, but the streets were quiet on Monday.
"How many of our people have to die before the city decides to do something about it?" said Nathaniel Livingston Jr. of the Coalition for a Just Cincinnati.
The videotape from a police cruiser's camera showed two white police officers landing at least a dozen blows with their nightsticks on Mr. Jones and tackling him, while shouting at him to put his hands behind his back. The tape also showed Mr. Jones lunging at one of the officers.
The officers who were at the scene, five whites and one black, were placed on administrative leave, which is standard procedure.
After seeing the video, Mr. Luken rejected a demand that he force Chief Thomas Streicher Jr. to resign.
"What I saw was a 400-pound man violently attacking a police officer in a manner that put the lives of police officers at risk," Mr. Luken said. "While the investigations will continue, there is nothing on those tapes to suggest that the police did anything wrong."
The Rev. Jesse Jackson issued a statement on Monday saying he wanted state and federal authorities to investigate.
A Justice Department spokesman, Jorge Martinez, said on Monday night: "We're in the process of gathering information and evidence to determine whether any federal action is warranted."
In 2001, black groups staged an economic boycott of Cincinnati after the 2001 shooting of Timothy Thomas, 19, who was wanted on charges of fleeing police. The officer who shot him was later cleared at trial of criminal charges. A federal investigation of that shooting, requested by the city, resulted in a 2002 agreement by the city to tighten policies regarding use of force and to improve handling of citizen complaints against the police.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A still image taken from a police videotape of the fatal beating of a man by Cincinnati officers on Sunday. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); COCAINE (90%); RIOTS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); AUTOPSIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RACE & RACISM (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); SHOOTINGS (58%); BOYCOTTS (50%) POLICE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; ASSAULTS ON POLICE; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE; PCP (DRUG) 

PERSON: JESSE JACKSON (58%) JONES, NATHANIEL; LUKEN, CHARLIE (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (94%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CINCINNATI (OHIO)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



49 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1614 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
MANUFACTURING AT HIGHEST LEVEL IN TWO DECADES

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and FLOYD NORRIS; Floyd Norris reported for this article from New York. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 1 

 BODY:
American manufacturing activity rose to its highest level in nearly 20 years last month as factories raced to keep up with demand and indicated a readiness to expand their work forces for the first time in three years, according to a survey published on Monday. 
 In the latest good economic news, the Institute of Supply Management reported that its November survey of purchasing managers showed a surge in new orders and a big jump in production in almost every industry. The institute said its overall index of manufacturing activity climbed to the highest level since December 1983, an increase much greater than most economists expected. 
 But the bigger surprise was that manufacturers showed a wider readiness to hire workers after three years of reducing factory payrolls.
Major stock indexes rose yesterday to the highest levels in 18 months, with the Dow Jones industrial average rising 1.19 percent as investors became more convinced that the robust economic growth this summer was more than a one-time event. 
Speaking at a fund-raising event in Dearborn, Mich., President Bush said his strategy of lower taxes had helped revive the economy.
"Our economy was strong and it is getting stronger," Mr. Bush said. "Productivity is high; business investment is strong; housing construction is strong. The tax relief we passed is working."
The positive news is tempered somewhat by the federal budget deficit, which is expected to reach $500 billion next year as growth is financed in large part with borrowed money, and by a lofty trade deficit.
Still, the new survey of manufacturing activity came on the heels of other reports indicating that the economy grew at an annual pace of 8.2 percent in the third quarter and the job market had begun to revive.
Economists said the data provided evidence that growth would continue to be strong next year, long after the effects from this year's tax cuts and the Federal Reserve's recent most reduction in interest rates wear off.
"I think this speaks to the strength of the economy right now, but it also speaks to the confidence of companies," said Norbert J. Ore, director of procurement at the Georgia-Pacific Corporation and chairman of the Institute for Supply Management's survey committee.
The institute said its index of manufacturing activity, computed from answers that purchasing executives provide about the pace of business activity, jumped to 62.8 from 57 in October. A reading above 50 signals that factory production is expanding rather than contracting. If it were to continue at the November level, the institute said, the index would correlate to overall annual economic growth of 7.3 percent.
 Companies participating in the survey reported exceptionally big jumps in new orders as well as backlogs, both of which suggest that output will continue to rise robustly.
 The buoyant conditions came through in 18 of the 20 sectors of manufacturing surveyed by the institute. The optimism ranged from producers of computers and office equipment to manufacturers of building materials, chemicals and machine tools.
 Two other reports provided additional evidence of stronger growth. The Commerce Department reported on Monday that construction activity grew faster than many experts predicted. The value of building projects under way in October reached $922 billion, a monthly high. The increases were varied, in areas including residential construction, public works and commercial building.
 Economists at J.P. Morgan said data from Europe and Asia showed that the global pace of manufacturing was picking up, as well. It said its global index of manufacturing activity had signaled an expansion for the last five months, with the United States and Asia leading the way.
 The survey, which economists view as particularly important, provided evidence that a three-year deep slump in manufacturing is drawing to a close. American manufacturers have shed more than two million jobs since fall 2001, with many of the lost jobs in industrial swing states like Pennsylvania, Ohio and Missouri.
 The encouraging economic data came at an opportune moment for President Bush, who is expected to anger steel makers this week by announcing the end of special tariffs against imported steel.
 And while the job market had begun to improve modestly in August and September, that had occurred in service industries. The new survey announced on Monday provided the first evidence that manufacturers were finally poised to start hiring as well.
 Economists are now fixing their attention on the next crucial piece of economic news: the Labor Department's monthly report on employment, which is to be released on Friday.
 Forecasters are predicting an increase in November of about 125,000 jobs, roughly in line with the job growth in the previous two months. Though representing a turnaround from the steady stream of job losses before this fall, the economy needs to generate more than 200,000 jobs a month before the unemployment rate begins to drop significantly.
 The increasingly clear evidence of economic growth poses a tricky choice for the Federal Reserve, which has contributed mightily to current growth by reducing short-term interest rates to their lowest level in 45 years.
 The federal funds rate for overnight loans between banks is 1 percent, and Fed officials have said since August that they would keep interest rates low for "a considerable period."
 But that open-ended commitment to easy money has already generated disagreement within the Fed, and every additional sign of renewed economic growth puts Fed officials under more pressure to resume tightening monetary policy.
 Despite the upbeat news about manufacturing, the United States' recovery remains dependent in large part on borrowed money.
 The budget deficit is expected to reach $500 billion next year and remain high for the foreseeable future. At the same time, the United States continues to run extremely high foreign trade deficits. The deficit in the nation's current account, the broadest measure of the financial relationship with the rest of the world, is expected to run about $500 billion this year. 
 That is a level of indebtedness that most economists consider unsustainable, and it is a big reason that the dollar has steadily lost value against the euro and other major currencies.
 For American manufacturers, the declining dollar has provided a welcome boost because it makes American products cheaper in other countries. But a weak dollar leads to higher prices for imported goods, which can feed the rate of inflation, and it can push up long-term interest rates as foreign investors demand higher returns to offset their currency risk.
 Investors, though, focused yesterday on the manufacturing index. The Dow's gain, of 116.59 points, to 9,899.05, left it at its highest level since May 31, 2002. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 11.92 points, or 1.13 percent, to 1,070.12, its highest close since May 28, 2002.
 The technology-focused Nasdaq composite index climbed 29.56 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,989.82, its best close since Jan. 15, 2002, nearly two years ago.
 Oracle , Apple Computer and Nextel were among the large Nasdaq stocks posting gains of 3 percent or more.
 The economy has been buoyed by consumer purchases for most of the last three years as many businesses cut back after the stock market bubble burst and industries, notably technology and telecommunications, were left with excessive capacity.
 But recent news has indicated that economic strength is spreading from consumers and housing, which remained at high levels throughout the recession and recently rose to record levels, and that was reflected in the stock market Monday.
 The Morgan Stanley cyclical index, which includes stocks that are deemed most dependent on a strong economy, rose 1.8 percent Monday, with companies like International Paper, U.S. Steel and PPG Industries , a diversified producer of chemical and industrial products, all gaining at least 4 percent.
 U.S. Steel's advance came despite the widespread reports of the imminent demise of the steel tariffs. Thomas Usher, the chief executive of U.S. Steel, said that would "create an uncertainty going forward," according to Bloomberg News. But it apparently did not bother investors.
 Retail stocks did less well. The Morgan Stanley retail index rose only 0.5 percent, with major sellers like Circuit City, Wal-Mart Stores and Toys "R" Us losing 2 percent or more. Some analysts said the holiday shopping season got off to a weaker start than many had expected. But J.C. Penney and Payless ShoeSource each rose more than 3 percent, as most retailers showed gains in their share prices.
 Boeing was one of four stocks in the Dow industrials to decline, falling 37 cents, to $38.02, after its chief executive, Philip M. Condit, resigned days after two other officials were forced out amid an investigation into the way the company sought an Air Force contract.
 In the bond market on Monday, Treasury bonds declined on the manufacturing news. By late in the day, the benchmark 10-year note was down 16/32, to 9828/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, climbed to 4.39 percent from 4.33 percent on Friday.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.766	99.479	High Rate	0.925	1.030	Investment Rate	0.943	1.053	Low Rate	0.900	1.000	Median Rate	0.920	1.020	Total applied for	$45,002,120	$38,689,448	Accepted	$21,825,962	$21,856,248	Noncompetitive	$1,297,388	$979,402	

Both issues are dated Dec. 4. The three-month bills mature on March 4 and the six-month bills mature on June 3.

GRAPHIC: Graph "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks bills, high rate at weekly auction, from August through November. (Source by The Bond Buyer)(pg. C10) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); NEW ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); TAX RELIEF (87%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); FUNDRAISING (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (58%); INTEREST RATES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRODUCTION; STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (73%); GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF SUPPLY MANAGEMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (63%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (63%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (63%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (63%)

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



50 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Retail Analysts Yawn at Early Holiday Sales 

BYLINE:  By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
Poring over the weekend sales figures, retail stock analysts threw cold water yesterday on some of the more optimistic projections for the kickoff to the holiday shopping season. 
 "We believe the results over the weekend were mixed at best, and certainly less robust than last year," wrote Todd D. Slater, a retail stocks analyst at Lazard Freres & Company. 
 Shari Schwartzman Eberts, who tracks retailers for J.P. Morgan Securities, expressed skepticism about Kohl's and Wal-Mart Stores, in particular. Wal-Mart, she wrote, the Friday after Thanksgiving came in below the company's plan and will probably put sales at the low end of expectations for the month of November. Over all, "the jury remains out on the holiday season," she added. 
Retail Forward, a consulting firm, yesterday forecast holiday sales growth of 3.5 percent to 4 percent over last year, "in line with the somewhat restrained holiday spending plans of America's shoppers." Mr. Slater projected retail sales gains of 4 percent for December. Those are lower expectations than that of the National Retail Federation, which repeated its forecast of 5.7 percent growth for the holiday season. 
 Citing the caution of consumers, Retail Forward said that 31 percent of those people polled planned to spend less than they did last year. Twenty percent said that they would spend more.
 Economists are hoping that the recovering job market will fuel spending this holiday season and beyond -- and virtually everyone is predicting that this year's holiday totals will exceed last year's. But the sales growth last year, 2.2 percent for the season, was low given that the previous year was depressed by the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center. This September, when store sales seemed unusually healthy and economic news turned favorable, some merchants began projecting double-digit growth for the holidays.
 The NPD Group, a market research firm, said that shoppers in three states -- Connecticut, New Jersey and New York -- complained in its polls that they had not seen any of the predicted economic changes and that they definitely did not feel better off or more inclined to spend on impulse gifts or must-have items. 
 Perhaps the strongest sales numbers for the weekend came from Visa, which processes credit card payments and other transactions. It reported that retail sales for the three-day shopping weekend rose 9 percent from a year earlier, but some of that gain came from the relatively small online shopping world and the increasing use of its Visa debit cards. The best category, representing 20 percent of sales it handled, was personal entertainment items, like the $9 CD players and $29 DVD players offered in early-morning specials at some discount stores. 
 Altogether, the most popular items for the weekend were CD's, DVD's and video games, bought by 39 percent of shoppers, the National Retail Federation said yesterday. They were followed closely by clothing and accessories at 35.6 percent; toys, 31.6 percent; and home furnishings, 20.5 percent. 
 On Sunday, Scott Krugman, a spokesman for the retail group, said that although sales for the three-day weekend were little changed from last year, he expected Americans' shopping to "increase exponentially" as the season progressed.
 Tracy Mullin, president of the federation, said that consumers "have completed less of their shopping than they had last year at this time."
 "That could mean that the best is yet to come in December," Ms. Mullin said.
 Mr. Slater agreed. The weekend's numbers "paled in comparison to last year's reports of sales up double digits," he said, adding that retailers should "fear not."
 "Although the die has been cast, Thanksgiving weekend is not always a good proxy for the fourth quarter," he said. The weekend's figures, he said, represent only 10 percent of the holiday business, while the week before Christmas constitutes 40 percent. Although sales gains were bigger on the Friday after Thanksgiving last year, "the holiday turned out to be one of the worst on record." He said the entire season could be much healthier this year, because "inventory levels are more conservative, promotional cadence is lower and the consumer is in better shape," referring to the brightening economic picture.
 Richard E. Jaffe, a retail analyst for UBS Warburg, said that specialty chains -- not discounters like Wal-Mart and Target -- were trying a new strategy, with fewer bargain sales to the masses in favor of special promotions for their core customers. These retailers offered "bounce-back" coupons to try to ensure a second visit. Thus, the shopper who bought $100 worth of items at full price received a coupon for $50 off the next $100 purchase. The stores are trying to reward their good customers, instead of luring new ones with giant sale signs advertising 40 percent off everything in the store, as some did last year.
 "They're more disciplined this year," Mr. Jaffe said.
 Even if same-store sales, comparing stores open at least a year, are not spectacular, there is another way to gauge success, Mr. Slater said. 
 "Don't expect outsize comp store sales," he said, referring to same-store sales. "But there may be very strong profit margins." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); THANKSGIVING (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); CD & DVD DRIVES (62%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (62%); DEBIT CARDS (62%); EMPLOYMENT (51%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CHRISTMAS; SALES 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (72%); LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (72%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (55%) MORGAN, J P, SECURITIES INC; KOHL'S CORP; WAL-MART STORES INC; RETAIL FORWARD 

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (72%); JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (72%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE; SCHWARTZMAN, SHARI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



51 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1663 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
Lawsuits Cast Attention on Passengers' Blood Clots on Long Flights

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Daniel Wylie wears tight stockings on both legs all the time now. He takes an 81-milligram tablet of aspirin every day. On flights, he drinks water like a parched camel and paces up and down the aisle and tries to stretch as best he can.
 All that came about, he said, after he developed a blood clot on an American Airlines flight from Paris to San Francisco via the New York area three summers ago. 
 After arriving home in Windsor, Calif., he walked into a local hospital with a bluish right leg. A doctor, he said, told him he was lucky that the clot had not broken off and traveled to his lungs, which could have resulted in a fatal pulmonary embolism. Mr. Wylie was put on a series of blood thinners for six months. 
 He is now suing American, a unit of the AMR Corporation, and Boeing in Federal District Court here, accusing them of failing to take proper preventive measures that would help passengers avoid blood clots.
 "I was very frustrated about the fact that not in any of my travels have I ever received a warning about deep vein thrombosis, or what's commonly referred to now as economy-class syndrome," Mr. Wylie said in a telephone interview from his home north of Phoenix.
 Mr. Wylie's suit is coupled with one from Debra Miller of Watsonville, Calif., who accuses Air France, Continental Airlines and Boeing of the same failure. Her complaint said she developed a life-threatening clot on a two-stage flight to San Francisco after running in the Paris Marathon in April 2001.
 The suits could be the first of their kind to go to trial in this country, after District Judge Vaughn R. Walker ruled against the defendants' motion to dismiss the case in July. 
 Representatives of Boeing and the airlines declined to comment on the matter because of the pending litigation.
 The lawsuit focuses attention on the question of what kind of role air travel may play in causing blood clots, and what actions, if any, airlines should take in warning passengers and recommending preventive measures.
 Debate on these matters has intensified in recent years as more than 200 suits have been filed against foreign and domestic airlines, and because better aircraft technology is making long-haul flights more common. On Feb. 3, Singapore Airlines will start operating the world's longest nonstop flight -- 18 hours and 25 minutes between Los Angeles and Singapore -- to be followed in August with 18-hour New York-Singapore flights over the North Pole.
 A study published in the Nov. 8 issue of BMJ, formerly the British Medical Journal, found the risk of getting a blood clot or pulmonary embolism was highest within two weeks of taking a long-haul flight. The researchers, who looked at records of more than 5,400 patients admitted to hospitals from 1981 to 1999 in Western Australia, also concluded that the annual risk of developing a clot increased 12 percent if one long-haul flight was taken a year. "Airlines and health authorities should continue to advise passengers on how to minimize risk," the researchers wrote.
 Despite a growing number of recommendations like that to airlines, a plaintiff has yet to win in any of the lawsuits. In this country, the most prominent suits have been filed in California and Texas. Besides the case involving Mr. Wylie and Ms. Miller, only two other suits, both in Texas, have been allowed to go to trial, and they are being delayed while an appeals court looks at issues of legal liability, said Michael S. Danko, the lawyer representing Mr. Wylie and Ms. Miller. In a case that helped to bring the problem to worldwide attention, a 28-year-old British woman died of deep vein thrombosis in October 2000, minutes after stepping off a nonstop Qantas Airways flight to London from Sydney, where she had been watching the Olympics. Her parents joined relatives of other blood-clot victims in a lawsuit against 18 airlines. The suit was dismissed by an appeals court in London in July, but lawyers for the families said they were trying to get the House of Lords to overturn the decision.
 The Air Transport Association, the industry's main trade group in the United States, said it was starting to pay more attention to deep vein thrombosis, but does not require or suggest that airlines take cautionary or preventive steps.
 "In our view, there are no direct relationships between air travel and deep vein thrombosis," said David A. Berg, the association's general counsel.
 Deep vein thrombosis occurs when a blood clot forms, usually in the legs. Most clots dissolve, but if one breaks off, it can be fatal. Even when they are not fatal, clots can be debilitating, some people say. Ms. Miller had to have open-heart surgery after the clot moved to her heart, and she is now permanently on blood thinners, Mr. Danko said.
 Certain people have greater chances of developing deep vein thrombosis -- those who are older or overweight, or those who have recently had surgery.
 The relationship between air travel and blood clotting is murkier, and research is still in the early stages. But many doctors and scientists say there appears to be some link.
 Dr. Samuel Z. Goldhaber, an associate professor at Harvard Medical School and director of the Venous Thromboembolism Research Group, said up to 5 percent of long-haul air travelers might get tiny clots in their calf veins, although there is disagreement on this. He estimated that one in a million passengers die of pulmonary embolisms.
 "There must be something to do with air quality and pressurization," Dr. Goldhaber added. Commercial aircraft cabins are pressurized at levels 5,000 to 8,000 feet above sea level and are kept very dry.
 A study published in The New England Journal of Medicine in September 2001 said that about 100 cases of a pulmonary embolism occurring after air travel had been reported in the last three decades. The study found that the rate of pulmonary embolism among passengers rose as the travel distance increased. Looking at passengers arriving at Charles de Gaulle Airport near Paris, it found 4.8 cases of pulmonary embolism for each million passengers who had traveled more than 6,200 miles, compared with 1.5 cases per million passengers who traveled more than 5,000 miles.
 The eight authors, all doctors, wrote that the risk of deep vein thrombosis seemed to increase during air travel because sitting still for a long time slowed blood flow and increased the thickness of the blood, while compression by the plane seats could cause blood-vessel lesions.
 Anecdotal evidence suggests that athletes like Ms. Miller seem particularly vulnerable, perhaps because athletes often have bruised or torn muscles already prone to clotting or because they have a slower resting blood flow.
 There is no consistent policy among many airlines on whether or how to mention deep vein thrombosis to passengers. Some, Asiana and Northwest Airlines, have pointed out the potential danger in recent flight publications and recommended that passengers do exercises while in their seats. Others, like American, post details on their Web sites but do not specifically mention deep vein thrombosis to passengers on board. Many airlines now recommend seat exercises in their in-flight videos, cards or magazines without raising any explicit health warnings.
 That is the practice at Singapore Airlines, which will soon be running the world's longest flights. "We take a broader view in terms of promoting overall healthy travel," a spokesman, James Boyd, said.
 But Mr. Danko, the lawyer representing Mr. Wylie and Ms. Miller, said that until research shows there is no connection between air travel and blood clotting, airlines should explicitly warn passengers about deep vein thrombosis. He said that about 80 clients have had blood-clot problems related to air travel and that he had filed suits for a quarter of them. He settled one suit with American Airlines last February for an undisclosed amount. The plaintiff, Mike Reynolds, started Airhealth.org, a Web site on deep vein thrombosis.
 Mr. Wylie's and Ms. Miller's suits are based onthe Warsaw Convention of 1929, which holds airlines responsible for a passenger's death or injury in the event of an accident on an international flight. Mr. Danko maintained that the "accident" in these cases was the airline's neglect to inform passengers of the potential for deep vein thrombosis, since some companies or trade groups in the industry were regularly doing so or were recommending doing so. He cited a news release from the International Air Transport Association in 2001 saying "at the time of reservation, travelers should be informed of the risks of D.V.T. and that research is currently being conducted."
 Though Judge Walker ruled that the suits could proceed to trial, at least one defendant, American Airlines, maintains that not explicitly supplying information about deep vein thrombosis does not constitute an accident.
 "It has to be an accident to win or have remedy under the Warsaw Convention," a spokesman, Tim Wagner, said. "That depends on whether D.V.T. can be classified as an accident or not, and obviously we don't believe it can."
 A federal district judge in Anchorage, James Singleton Jr., agreed with that view last week, when he dismissed a lawsuit against British Airways, Alaska Airlines and Boeing. The plaintiff, Richard Louie, contended that a stroke he suffered in 2000 was a result of a deep vein thrombosis that developed on a flight from Anchorage to London.
 In his ruling, the judge said "it is not possible to find that either a failure to warn Louie of the risk of D.V.T. or a comfortable seat with a leg rest was an accident as defined by the Warsaw Convention." 
 Whatever the court here ultimately decides, Dr. Goldhaber and other physicians say all airlines need to promote healthy flying. This includes telling passengers to stay hydrated, move around a lot, avoid alcohol and possibly wear compression stockings -- all things that Mr. Wylie now does every time he boards a plane.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 15, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Dec. 2 about lawsuits brought by airline passengers who say they developed blood clots while flying referred incorrectly to a flight from Sydney to London cited in one such suit, which has been dismissed. It was not nonstop.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dan Wylie, who is suing American Airlines and Boeing over a blood clot he developed three years ago on flights from Paris to San Francisco. (Photo by Charlie Gesell for The New York Times)(pg. C6) Chart: "Long Hauls"Early next year, Singapore Airlines will begin operating a nonstop flight between Los Angeles and Singapore. At 18 hours and 25 minutes, it will be the world's longest flight and will top the current longest flight by nearly two and a half hours. LONGEST NONSTOP FLIGHTS, NOV. '03: Newark to Hong KongAIRLINE: Continental AirlinesFLIGHT TIME (HOURS : MINUTES): 16:00AVERAGE WEEKLY FLIGHTS: 4 LONGEST NONSTOP FLIGHTS, NOV. '03: Chicago to Hong KongAIRLINE: United AirlinesFLIGHT TIME (HOURS : MINUTES): 15:50AVERAGE WEEKLY FLIGHTS: 7 LONGEST NONSTOP FLIGHTS, NOV. '03: Los Angeles to Hong KongAIRLINE: Cathay Pacific AirwaysFLIGHT TIME (HOURS : MINUTES): 15:45AVERAGE WEEKLY FLIGHTS: 7 LONGEST NONSTOP FLIGHTS, NOV. '03: New Delhi to TorontoAIRLINE: Air CanadaFLIGHT TIME (HOURS : MINUTES): 15:30AVERAGE WEEKLY FLIGHTS: 7 LONGEST NONSTOP FLIGHTS, NOV. '03: Los Angeles to MelbourneAIRLINE: Qantas AirwaysFLIGHT TIME (HOURS : MINUTES): 15:15AVERAGE WEEKLY FLIGHTS: 7 LONGEST NONSTOP FLIGHTS, NOV. '03: Atlanta to SeoulAIRLINE: Korean AirFLIGHT TIME (HOURS : MINUTES): 15:10AVERAGE WEEKLY FLIGHTS: 3 LONGEST NONSTOP FLIGHTS, NOV. '03: Hong Kong to TorontoAIRLINE: Cathay Pacific AirwaysFLIGHT TIME (HOURS : MINUTES): 15:10AVERAGE WEEKLY FLIGHTS: 7 LONGEST NONSTOP FLIGHTS, NOV. '03: Atlanta to JohannesburgAIRLINE: South African AirwaysFLIGHT TIME (HOURS : MINUTES): 15:05AVERAGE WEEKLY FLIGHTS: 4 LONGEST NONSTOP FLIGHTS, NOV. '03: Los Angeles to Guangzhou, ChinaAIRLINE: China Southern AirlinesFLIGHT TIME (HOURS : MINUTES): 15:00AVERAGE WEEKLY FLIGHTS: 4 LONGEST NONSTOP FLIGHTS, NOV. '03: Manila to ParisAIRLINE: Air FranceFLIGHT TIME (HOURS : MINUTES): 15:00AVERAGE WEEKLY FLIGHTS: 3 LONGEST NONSTOP FLIGHTS, NOV. '03: Taipei to New YorkAIRLINE: China AirlinesFLIGHT TIME (HOURS : MINUTES): 15:00AVERAGE WEEKLY FLIGHTS: 7 (Source by Back Aviation Solutions)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); BLOOD DISORDERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ANTICOAGULANTS (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (76%); HOSPITALS (75%); VERDICTS (73%); JUDGES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); INTERVIEWS (65%); RESEARCH REPORTS (65%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; BLOOD CLOTS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (83%); AMR CORP (83%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (54%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO; AMERICAN AIRLINES; AIR FRANCE; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (83%); BAB (BRU) (83%); BA (NYSE) (83%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); AF (PAR) (54%); AF (AMS) (54%); C6L (SGX) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (83%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: WONG, EDWARD; WYLIE, DANIEL; MILLER, DEBRA; WALKER, VAUGHN R (JUDGE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (59%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (95%); SINGAPORE (94%); FRANCE (92%); CHINA (90%); TAIWAN (79%); HONG KONG (70%); INDIA (59%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



52 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Big Business Plays Largest Role in Current Russian Vote 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 1 

 BODY:
In America the relationship between big business and politics may often be cozy; in Russia it is fast becoming intimate.
 The nation's largest businesses, from oil giants to banks to manufacturers, have not only poured money into the parliamentary elections to be held on Sunday, but have also filled party tickets with dozens of their own executives. 
 Yukos Oil, whose former chairman, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, is in prison on charges widely viewed as politically motivated, has executives running as candidates not only for the liberal Yabloko party, but also for the Communists and for United Russia, the party loyal to President Vladimir V. Putin.
The prosecutorial assault on Mr. Khodorkovsky -- one of a cadre of wealthy businessmen known derisively as oligarchs -- has been interpreted by some as a broader assault on big business in Russia. But it appears that big business has become more closely intertwined with politics than ever. 
While the popularity of Mr. Putin and United Russia appear to have been strengthened by the investigation of Mr. Khodorkovsky, the party has candidates from prominent companies controlled by other oligarchs.
Two oil companies, T.N.K. and Lukoil, have executives running on the party's ticket, as do Russian Aluminum and the steel giant Severstal. An analysis of United Russia's federal and regional party lists by The Moscow Times showed that more than a quarter of United Russia's parliamentary candidates represented big businesses.
Perhaps to hedge its bet, T.N.K. also has a spot on the Communist ticket, while Russian Aluminum's deputy general director is running as a candidate of the Liberal Democratic Party, led by the strident nationalist Vladimir V. Zhirinovsky.
Twelve years afterthe collapse of the Soviet one-party state, big business has become by far the most influential force in Russia's elections, providing money and candidates and also profoundly altering party platforms and, in some cases, turning traditional ideologies upside down.
"There is not a single large company in Russia that is not involved in politics," said Boris G. Fyodorov, a former deputy prime minister and banker who is running for a seat from southeast Moscow representing a smaller party, Russia Forward.
The election on Sunday, in which 23 parties are vying for all 450 seats of the lower house of Parliament, represents a critical turn for Russia and for Mr. Putin, who is universally expected to win a second term in the presidential election next March.
Although not officially a member of any party, Mr. Putin has thrown his power and popularity behind United Russia, most recently in remarks broadcast Friday, saying a centrist majority led by the party is essential to the economic and bureaucratic reforms he has vowed to pursue in a second term.
Regardless of which party wins the most seats, the nation's largest companies appear certain to be well represented in the new Parliament, wielding enough influence to propose or block legislation affecting corporate interests, from taxes to regulation of natural resources.
Perhaps it was the scale and political direction of Mr. Khodorkovsky's influence peddling that differentiated him from the others. He openly contributed money to two liberal parties, Yabloko and the Union of Right Forces, to try to create a solid bloc of legislators opposed to Mr. Putin.
His efforts to influence Parliament, particularly in blocking a new law on oil production earlier this year, have been widely viewed as a catalyst for the sweeping investigation of alleged tax evasion and fraud that has put him in a Moscow prison.
Grigory A. Yavlinsky, the leader of Yabloko, acknowledged in a recent television interview that the party had included three Yukos executives on its federal list of candidates as a condition of Mr. Khodorkovsky's contributions.
Dmitri I. Orlov, deputy director of the Center for Political Technologies in Moscow, predicted that executives would win more than 20 percent of Parliament's 450 seats. Another 40 percent could end up in the hands of what he called "hidden lobbyists," candidates supported by businesses to protect the interests of specific industries.
A new law requires candidates to declare their incomes and employers, and executives are required to resign from their companies if elected. But they can keep their shares and other holdings, and analysts say many sever their ties to business only nominally.
Few of the candidates or their parties are actively publicizing their ties to some of the nation's biggest companies. In a country where a quarter of the population lives below the poverty line, running as a rich, successful businessman -- say, as a sort of Russian Ross Perot -- appears to have little populist appeal.
Several prominent executives running for Parliament refused to be interviewed about their candidacies. 
They included Yevgeny V. Ivanov, Russian Aluminum's deputy general director, who is running on the Liberal Democrats' ticket, and three executives on United Russia's: Vyacheslav S. Timchenko, the vice president of T.N.K.; Viktor F. Rashnikov, general director of Magnitogorsk Metallurgical Combine; and Georgi Y. Shevtsov, a director of Severstal.
Ilyaz B. Muslimov, a businessman who is also a United Russia candidate, said a clear line should be drawn between politicians and businessmen. Although he is a newspaper publisher and president of a pulp and paper company, he said a businessman should "mind his own business." He said he would step down from his company if elected.
The Communist Party in particular has found itself on the defensive because of its embrace of business. Government-controlled television has featured critical stories about the executives on its ticket.
One of them is Aleksei P. Kondaurov, who is virtually assured election because half of the seats are chosen according to parties' total votes nationwide and he is ranked 13th on the Communists' federal list.
He is also an executive of Yukos-Moscow, the oil company's main subsidiary. 
It is one measure of the ideological upheaval in Russian politics that he argues that the Communist Party is now the party of business.
"Today's Communist Party does not reject private property," he said. "It does not reject the mechanisms for market development. The Communist Party is for the strengthening of democratic institutions and the development of civil society."
He said the prosecution of Mr. Khodorkovsky and Yukos proved that Mr. Putin and United Russia favored greater state control over the interests of private enterprises.
Still, Mr. Kondaurov's candidacy and that of other executives have exposed deep divisions within a party still struggling to formulate a post-Soviet message.
Leonid S. Mayevsky, a Communist member of the current Parliament, publicly criticized the party at a news conference last month, saying that 28 percent of its candidates were millionaires.
"Is this the party of the people or of the millionaires?" he asked.
He was promptly expelled from the party.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Bush Expresses Concern to Putin
(By The New York Times)
 WASHINGTON, Dec. 1 -- President Bush conveyed his concern about the "rule of law and the future of democracy" in a telephone conversation with President Putin, White House officials said Monday.
The officials did not elaborate, but they indicated that Mr. Bush's comments had been prompted by the arrest of Mr. Khodorkovsky and the seizure of his oil company's assets, as well as steps by Russia to restrict freedom of the press.
"This was not the first time they have had such conversations," said an administration official, noting that Mr. Bush had raised concerns about suppression of human rights in the Russian campaign against the insurgency in Chechnya when Mr. Putin had been his guest at Camp David, Md., in late September.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two parties, Yabloko, above, and the Union of Right Forces, on balloons, below, accepted money from Yukos Oil's former chairman. Bottom, a sign for United Russia, the party loyal to President Putin. (Photo by Associated Press); (Photographs by Yola Monakhov/Panos, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (71%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (59%) ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (72%); OAO SEVERSTAL (68%); OAO LUKOIL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: YUKOS (RUSSIAN CO) 

TICKER: SVST (LSE) (68%); CHMF (RTS) (68%); LKOH (RTS) (55%); LKOD (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (68%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (68%); SIC2514 METAL HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (68%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%) MYERS, STEVEN LEE; KHODORKOVSKY, MIKHAIL B; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



53 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Trading Favors 

 BODY:
Presidents subordinate economic and trade policy to electoral pandering at their own peril. That should now be abundantly clear to George Bush as he tries to decide what to do -- and when to announce it -- in response to a World Trade Organization ruling that his 2002 steel tariffs are illegal.
 Yesterday, Mr. Bush starred in a campaign fund-raiser in Michigan held by steel-dependent auto executives and other industrial leaders who have complained bitterly about the tariffs. Today, he will collect $1 million or so in Pittsburgh at a fund-raiser held by the chief executive of a steel maker. There is no way Mr. Bush can say anything on steel that will please both audiences. 
 Despite the opposition of its own economic team, the White House adopted the tariffs to protect America's ailing industry and woo steelworkers' votes in the key electoral battlegrounds of West Virginia, Pennsylvania and Ohio. The move, based on the specious claim that a sudden surge of imported steel was responsible for the domestic industry's woes, has harmed the overall economy and antagonized the nation's trading partners.
Some of these nations are threatening to impose retaliatory tariffs on an array of American products by mid-December if Washington does not lift its ill-advised taxes on imported steel. The White House is reported to be ready to throw in the towel, and will probably claim victory by noting that there has been some restructuring of the industry. American steel makers have also been helped by surging demand from China and the weakening dollar.
A recent move to restrict textile imports from China shows that the Bush administration is still eager to dabble in protectionism to seek political gain, but a retreat on steel tariffs would help avoid an escalation in global trade tensions.
Of course, the retreat could not be announced before today's fund-raiser in Pittsburgh, where even the football heroes are Steelers. Steel companies warn that lifting the tariffs would amount to a "broken promise" that could cost Mr. Bush dearly. Rank-and-file steelworkers might sound equally disappointed if their union had not already endorsed Richard Gephardt's presidential candidacy.
Which brings us back to the central point. President Bush should stop trying to fine-tune trade policy to enhance his electoral vote count and focus on the overall national interest. Both he and the country will be a lot better off when he does. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); US DOLLAR (71%); TEXTILES (50%) STEEL AND IRON; EDITORIALS; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



54 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Shifts in States May Give Bush Electoral Edge 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 1 

 BODY:
Beyond issues like Iraq and the economy is one political reality that both the White House and Democrats say is already shaping next year's presidential race: If President Bush carries the same states in 2004 that he won in 2000, he will win seven more electoral votes.
 That change, a result of a population shift to Republican-friendly states in the South and West in the last several years, means the Republicans have a slight margin of error in 2004 while the Democrats will have to scramble just to pull even. 
 In 2000, after Florida's 25 electoral votes were awarded to Mr. Bush, he won the presidency with 271 -- 5 more than Al Gore's 266. Since then 18 states have either won or lost electoral votes, with 7 states that Mr. Bush won last time gaining a total of 11 electoral votes: Florida picked up 2, as did Texas, Georgia and Arizona. North Carolina, Nevada and Colorado each gained 1. 
The gain of 11 electoral votes was offset by a loss of 4 from four other Bush states, leaving Mr. Bush with a net gain of 7. The Democrats lost eight electoral votes in six states that went for Mr. Gore and gained one in another, for their net loss of seven.
The shift in the electoral map means that the Republicans have a crucial cushion going into the 2004 presidential campaign. Mr. Bush could hold all the states he won in 2000 except for, say, West Virginia and its five electoral votes, and still win in 2004. The Democrats have no such room for error. They must hold all the states Mr. Gore won and add to them to make up the difference.
"Before a vote is cast, we've increased our margin," Matthew Dowd, chief strategist for Mr. Bush's campaign, said. "In a race that's very close, those small readjustments in the electoral map will have significance."
Jim Mulhall, communications strategist for the Democratic National Committee, agreed: "The map is destiny for both campaigns."
The Republican electoral cushion by no means guarantees Mr. Bush a victory. After all, Mr. Gore outpolled him by nearly 550,000 votes in 2000. More important, voting patterns may not repeat themselves. And notable demographic shifts are occurring within the states.
Because of those shifts, both sides predict that 15 states may be up for grabs: Oregon, Nevada, Arizona, New Mexico, Iowa, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Michigan, Missouri, Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, New Hampshire, Maine and Florida.
It is essentially in these states that the race will be fought -- evidenced already by the millions of dollars that both parties plan to spend in them long before next November.
The Bush campaign, unopposed in the primaries, has more than $100 million on hand. Mr. Bush has already lent his most valuable asset -- his time -- to swing states, visiting Pennsylvania, Florida, Michigan and Ohio more than anywhere else.
He has also used a range of policy decisions -- from steel tariffs to farm subsidies, from backing for ethanol in Iowa to supporting revitalization of the Everglades in Florida -- to appeal to voters in those states.
Democrats are also plowing the political ground in these states, though they do not yet have a nominee. In part, they are relying on networks set up over the years by organized labor. Offshoot groups are conducting focus groups, to help the eventual nominee tailor a message and to start contacting voters.
As part of their calculations on where to allot resources, both parties have tracked demographic shifts on the electoral map.
Democrats know that white men in rural parts of states like Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin -- all of which went for Mr. Gore -- are increasingly voting Republican, largely because of issues like President Bill Clinton's personal behavior and recent court rulings on gay rights. As a Democratic strategist said, "Older white Americans moved away from us on impeachment and guns, and now same-sex marriage is a killer."
Since the 2000 election -- or more precisely, the 2000 census -- 18 states have gained or lost electoral votes because of population shifts. Each state's electoral votes are equal to the number of its representatives in the House, which are allocated in proportion to population, plus two more votes for its senators.
Mark Gersh, the Washington director for the National Committee for an Effective Congress, which analyzes demographics and voting trends for the Democratic Party, said that the states gaining electoral votes were areas with substantial growth of Latinos or populations at the far fringes of the suburbs.
For example, in 2000, Mr. Bush won 81 percent of the Cuban vote in Florida, Mr. Gersh said. The Cuban population is not growing, but the voting-age populations are of other Latino groups -- like Dominicans and Puerto Ricans -- that are strongly Democratic. Florida's black voting-age population, also overwhelmingly Democratic, is expected to rise by 13 percent from 2000 to 2004.
At the same time, Mr. Gersh said, the voting-age population is growing in the expanding areas beyond the state's established suburbs -- by an estimated 400,000 people from 2000 to 2004. Those voters are overwhelmingly Republican. "A lot of demographic changes are taking place, but most are offsetting," he said.
President Bush's brother Jeb, the governor of Florida, cited such demographic fluctuations last week in explaining why the state's vote would again be extremely close.
"We have more people moving in, we have the third-highest number of people moving out, we have a lot of people go on to see their creator, and we have a pretty high birth rate -- we have probably the most dynamic election roll every four years," Governor Bush said in Boca Raton while attending a meeting of the Republican Governors Association.
. Republicans are also mindful that neither Mr. Clinton nor Mr. Bush won more than 50 percent of the vote in the last three presidential elections. "No matter how well the economy is doing, no matter how well we're doing in Iraq, and even if we're running the best campaign in the world, this election will be decided within a margin of 4 or 5 percent," Mr. Dowd said.
It is clear the electoral change has hurt the Democrats more than Republicans. The population losses came in states that Mr. Gore won and usually vote Democratic: New York and Pennsylvania each lost two electoral votes, while Michigan, Illinois, Connecticut and Wisconsin all lost one. The one bright spot for Democrats was California, which gained a vote. 
There were population losses in four "Bush states" from 2000. Indiana, Mississippi and Oklahoma each lost a vote, though the losses were thought less crucial since those states regularly vote Republican.
The other state, Ohio, which lost one vote, matters to both parties. Ohio's economy has suffered more than those of many other states and Democrats perceive it as fertile ground. The Bush campaign is well aware of the state's significance. On Labor Day, the opening bell of the 2004 campaign, Mr. Bush spoke in Ohio -- to an audience of union workers.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "2004 Electoral Landscape"Republican and Democratic strategists predict that many of the states won by either side in 2000 will go the same way in 2004, but they also say at least 15 states may be up for grabs. POSSIBLE 2004 ELECTORAL PICTURE, INCLUDING SWING STATESStates are sized according to their number of votes in the Electoral College, and are labeled with both the current number and the change in number since the last election. ELECTORAL VOTES BASED ON THE MAP ABOVE Republican candidate: 196 votesSwing: 163Democratic candidate: 179 In 2000, George W. Bush received 271 and Al Gore received 266. (Source by Federal Election Commission) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (94%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); REDISTRICTING (78%); CENSUS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); POPULATION DECLINE (76%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; CENSUS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; REAPPORTIONMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (US) 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); AL GORE (89%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GORE, AL; SEELYE, KATHARINE Q 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) WESTERN STATES (US); SOUTHERN STATES (US); FLORIDA; TEXAS; GEORGIA; ARIZONA; NORTH CAROLINA; NEVADA; COLORADO

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



55 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: President in a Political Vise Over Steel Tariff Decision 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER and DAVID E. SANGER; Elizabeth Becker reported for this article from Washington and David E. Sanger from Dearborn and Canton, Mich. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 1 

 BODY:
With the White House signaling that President Bush would abide by a ruling of the World Trade Organization and lift the tariffs he placed last year on foreign steel, American steel makers angrily declared on Monday that he should resist doing so rather than give in to threats of retaliation from Europe.
 "This blackmail, this intimidation by Europe, is just further weakening our manufacturing base," Thomas J. Usher, chairman and chief executive of the United States Steel Corporation, told reporters in a telephone news conference. 
 Mr. Usher insisted that the White House had not indicated what Mr. Bush would do, and said he planned to ask the president about the issue on Tuesday. 
He will have his chance: awkwardly for Mr. Bush, to whom the decision is fraught with political implications, Mr. Usher is a host of a $1 million fund-raiser scheduled for Pittsburgh on Tuesday, and it appears that the White House may be delaying any announcement until the president has left the city that steel built.
"I will be quite anxious to see the president," Mr. Usher said. "I haven't heard anything from him of a decision. I intend to ask him where he stands on this."
Contrary to news reports that first appeared on Sunday night, the White House said publicly on Monday that Mr. Bush had made no final decision. But administration officials who spoke on the condition that they not be identified did not deny the reports that he intended to lift the tariffs.
Further, William Gaskin, president of the Precision Metalforming Association, whose members oppose the tariffs as consumers of steel, said, "Nobody wants to say anything official for the record, but we've been hearing positive things for a while."
Mr. Bush was in Michigan on Monday, speaking near the headquarters of the Ford Motor Company. His appearance there, and in Pennsylvania on Tuesday, underscores the tug of war being played out between states that would be winners, and those likely to be losers, if the tariffs are lifted.
Manufacturers in Michigan, including automobile parts makers, have complained that the tariffs are making imported steel unnecessarily expensive. There is no question that if Mr. Bush removes the tariffs, he will please steel users in Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin, states that narrowly voted for Al Gore in the 2000 election and are up for grabs next year. But he will anger steel companies, and their workers, in Pennsylvania and West Virginia, also crucial states in the coming election.
When he announced the tariffs last year, in response to domestic steel makers' complaint that the United States had become a dumping ground for cheap foreign steel, the president said they were intended to give the American steel companies a breathing space of three years to consolidate their industry and get it back on its feet. While some major steel makers say they have made headway in consolidating, they also maintain that they need the next 18 months to ensure that it is long-lasting.
At issue now is a ruling last month by the World Trade Organization's highest panel, which found the tariffs illegal. The W.T.O. authorized retaliatory tariffs of $2.3 billion by Europe, which had spearheaded the case against the United States, and by Asian and South American exporters as well, if Mr. Bush did not act by the middle of this month. Officials say most of Mr. Bush's leading economic and trade advisers have told him that he has little choice but to accede to the W.T.O.'s ruling.
Mr. Bush has worked hard to woo union members, a strategy devised by his chief political adviser, Karl Rove, who pressed hard early last year in favor of the tariffs. Revoking them a year and a half before they are scheduled to expire could undercut that strategy at a moment when the Democratic presidential candidates are largely turning away from the free-trade policies that so often put the Clinton administration at odds with the unions.
Leo W. Gerard, president of the United Steelworkers of America, said his union "would be very disappointed and upset" if Mr. Bush removed the tariffs. "It would be like pulling out the rug from under us," said Mr. Gerard, who noted that "there are no votes for the president in Europe."
Mr. Bush made no mention on Monday of the steel tariff quandary or the political calculations it involves. But Democratic presidential candidates were already on the attack against the decision that is expected.
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, who has been endorsed by the steelworkers' union, said a lifting of the tariffs would "endanger the existence of steel altogether."
"It's a bad decision," Mr. Gephardt said. "To me, steel is a basic commodity that we have to make in this country. How can we protect the United States militarily if we make no steel?"
In a taste of a debate within the Democratic Party over trade, another candidate, Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio, challenged the right of the W.T.O. to declare the tariffs illegal. "Clearly the tariffs are needed and are effective," he said. "But the president has abandoned the sovereignty required to maintain them." 
The United States' domestic political circumstance has also entered the calculations of the European nations, whose retaliatory sanctions could begin as early as Dec. 15, a deadline that has helped propel the president's decision. The Europeans have made targets of products whose pummeling would hurt his re-election chances: American exports of not only steel but also textiles, important to the South, and citrus fruits, important to Florida and California.
Nor are the Europeans offering much wiggle room. Arancha Gonzales, the spokeswoman for the European Union's top trade official, said there was no possibility of compromise on the sanctions. 
"Our strategy has been clear since June 2002," Ms. Gonzales said. "For absolute clarity, we published a law that if and when the W.T.O. rules definitely that the steel tariffs are illegal, we would immediately impose sanctions." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%) STEEL AND IRON; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; AUTOMOBILES; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (83%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) ;WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); X (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); USHER, THOMAS J; BECKER, ELIZABETH; SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) MICHIGAN; PENNSYLVANIA

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



56 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1716 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Builders Buy Abroad 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
China is building an export powerhouse, but it must still rely on outsiders to do so.
 In the midst of a building boom of highways, dams, airports and office buildings, China has emerged as the world's largest market for heavy-duty construction equipment, and companies from around the world have rushed to meet its needs. 
 In Chongqing, in western China, loud bangs every couple of minutes signal the continued use of explosives to dig foundations. Here in Shanghai, the constant noise of drills can be heard from any of dozens of new skyscrapers.
 China is also trying to build an interstate highway system more extensive than America's in just 15 years, while practically every large city is building or has just completed a big new airport. 
 All this creates a big demand for equipment. Chinese construction companies, in fact, have been buying big vehicles at a rate dwarfing sales in all of North America or Europe. 
 At a time of growing trade tensions pitting China against the United States, the European Union and Japan, construction vehicles, like commercial aircraft, ranks among the dwindling categories of manufactured goods in which China is still a significant importer. International companies like Caterpillar, Daewoo, Komatsu, Hitachi and others all have big operations to build vehicles in China, and are seeking to expand.
 "What we're seeing in China today is not unlike what we saw in Europe in the early 1960's," said Glen Barton, chairman and chief executive of Caterpillar Inc., in a telephone interview as he toured China. "The market here is now large enough to justify domestic production."
 Caterpillar, by far the world's largest maker of construction equipment, is interested in buying stakes in "four or five" Chinese equipment makers, and hopes to conclude one or two deals in the next couple of months, Mr. Barton said. The industry will probably see considerable consolidation in the coming months and years, he added.
 Michael Berchtold, president of Morgan Stanley's Asian and Pacific operations, said the interest by construction equipment manufacturers was part of a much broader and still growing fascination by outsiders with the Chinese market, which is growing at close to 10 percent a year. "The inquiries we're seeing from multinationals are across the board," he said. "It's almost indiscriminate."
 Yet, as in many industries, equipment executives are watching nervously for any signs of slowing demand. Thecentral bank has begun trying to rein in sectors of the economy that appear to be overheating. With banks lending more in the first seven months of this year than in all of last year, the central bank, the People's Bank of China, raised reserve requirements in August and several times has urged banks to slow lending to speculative developments.
 The central bank announced recently that the pace of new loans had fallen sharply. Yen Wei, a Moody's analyst specializing in Chinese banks, said he expected some developers to start missing payments on loans in December and January, as it becomes harder to take out fresh loans.
 Heavy-equipment spending is often a leading indicator of economic activity. Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, likes to cite sales trends in heavy-duty freight trucks. Construction and construction equipment executives here say they see hints of a modest weakening in the market, but little sign of a serious credit crunch or slowdown.
 Thomas D. Pierce, managing director for China at Sauer-Danfoss-Daikin Ltd., a Japanese-American venture that sells hydraulic components to Chinese construction equipment makers, said some customers had seen their orders dry up abruptly, and had even told employees to take extra vacation time.
 But Mr. Pierce said this might represent an annual problem in China, with managers of public works projects running out of money near the end of the year and forced to wait for their next budget allocation. He predicted the market would still grow 30 percent next year, adding, "After Feb. 1, two weeks after Chinese New Year, nobody will be taking any time off."
 Unlike in most countries, as much as four-fifths of the construction spending in China depends on public works projects, which are likely to continue regardless of what happens to interest rates.
 A significant amountof the remaining activity involves factory construction by multinational companies, which tend to pursue strategic plans that are largely immune to short-term rates here. "After a real dropoff at the end of the summer because of SARS, things suddenly came alive again," said Michael G. W. Adams, head of Chinese business development for Gammon Skanska, a Hong Kong-based joint venture of Jardine Matheson and Skanska that is one of Asia's largest construction companies.
 An outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome in the spring slowed the signing of contracts and has produced appreciable drops in the value of foreign direct investment actually entering China. But the volume of new contracts being signed has recovered fully, suggesting that the decline in actual investments will soon be reversed as well.
 According to Off-Highway Research, a consulting firm in London, China has just become the world's largest market for the workhorses of big projects: crawler excavators, which look like long-armed shovels, and wheeled loaders, which look like bulldozers but with scoops in front instead of earth-scraping blades. 
 But China lags behind Europe and North America in the sale of construction equipment partly because prices are lower here but mainly because few smaller pieces of equipment are sold for fixing and maintaining roads and buildings.
 China has also become the world's main market for used construction equipment, holding up prices and making it easier for contractors elsewhere to sell vehicles after several years and buy new ones. "Nobody else can find those good-quality second-hand machines because the Chinese market is sucking them up," said Chris Edwards, the Asia manager for Ritchie Bros. Auctioneers, a used equipment dealer.
 China has a lingering habit of spending little on maintenance. Fully 97 percent of the market consists of heavy equipment designed for new construction, compared with a third of the market in Europe and North America and half in Japan, according to Off-Highway Research.
 The likelihood that Chinese manufacturers will try to start exporting is another concern for multinationals. In the United States, companies like Caterpillar have faced competition first from Japanese manufacturers like Komatsu in the 1980's and then from Korean producers like Daewoo in the 1990's. Komatsu learned to build sophisticated equipment partly as a Caterpillar licensee after World War II and is now the second-largest manufacturer in the $100 billion global market for construction equipment.
 Multinationals and their venture partners dominate the market for crawler excavators in China. Domestic companies without foreign partners sell excavators for as little as $55,000 apiece, half the price of American and Japanese models, but hold just 10 percent of the domestic market because their models break down frequently and it can take up to three weeks to get replacement parts, said David Phillips, managing director of Off-Highway Research.
 The multinationals import most of the engines, axles and other crucial parts. China's lack of a competitive parts industry in cars and construction equipment has hamstrung its attempts to become internationally competitive.
By contrast, domestic companies account for almost all of the wheeled loaders sold in China, at prices that are half the level found in other countries. Wheeled loaders are much simpler technologically, and while Chinese models still have a dismal reputation for quality, their producers are working to improve it.
On Nov. 5, Caterpillar signed a nonbinding memorandum of understanding with China's seventh-largest producer of wheeled loaders, Shandong Engineering Machinery, to discuss an investment in the Chinese company, which would require Beijing's approval.
 The memorandum makes Caterpillar the first multinational to try to move into this field. Repeating an argument made by many multinational executives, and dismissed by union officials in the United States, Mr. Barton said that while such a move would provoke fears of job losses elsewhere, his company needed to compete in China and believed that if it manufactured part of its lineup here, there would be a demand for additional products that are not manufactured in China.
 As in the car market, multinationals are likely to export construction equipment from China before purely domestic companies do so. Indeed, it may take even longer for domestic Chinese construction equipment manufacturers to enter world markets than domestic carmakers.
 While companies like General Motors and Ford are still required to use joint ventures with local automakers to build vehicles in China, Beijing has recently allowed construction equipment producers to buy out their joint-venture partners and do business through wholly owned subsidiaries here. And while G.M. brought the latest car-making technology to China in exchange for permission to enter the market, executives say that even the machines built here by the multinationals tend to be years behind the latest models sold in industrialized countries, partly to prevent the illegal copying of technology.
 All this will make it harder and slower, but not impossible, for Chinese companies to challenge the likes of Caterpillar in its home market someday. China has already begun exporting gravel-crushing equipment to American quarries, as well as smaller tools like powerful saws.
 In the early 1980's, the consensus in the construction equipment industry was that Japanese manufacturers would have little success in an American market in which contractors had relied on the same company for machines for decades, said Al Cervero, former owner of a crane manufacturer and now senior vice president of the Association of Equipment Manufacturers, a trade group in Milwaukee. But within a decade, names like Komatsu were evident on construction sites across the United States.
 "Will the Chinese make that jump?" Mr. Cervero asked. "Maybe, but not for a significant period of time."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Most of the heavy earth-moving equipment used for the construction of the Yan Tian Gang port and container terminal in Shenzhen, China, comes from the American company Caterpillar. (Photo by Justin Guariglia/Contact Press Images for The New York Times)(pg. W1); Equipment from Caterpillar is used to level the site of the Yan Tian Gang port and container terminal in Shenzhen, China. Caterpillar said it was interested in buying stakes in Chinese equipment makers. (Photo by Justin Guariglia/Contact Press Images for The New York Times)(pg. W7) Chart: "A Big Market For Big Machinery"China is now the world's largest market for heavy construction equipment like crawler excavators (longarmed shovels for digging) and wheeled loaders (bulldozers that have a bucket in front for heavy lifting). ChinaCRAWLER EXCAVATORS: 20,000WHEELED LOADERS: 45,000 EuropeCRAWLER EXCAVATORS: 19,200WHEELED LOADERS: 17,000 JapanCRAWLER EXCAVATORS: 18,170WHEELED LOADERS: 7,900 North AmericaCRAWLER EXCAVATORS: 12,500WHEELED LOADERS: 13,250 (Source by Off-Highway Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (83%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BANKING IN CHINA (75%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%) BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT; TRACTORS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (85%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (85%); MORGAN STANLEY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%) CATERPILLAR INC; DAEWOO GROUP; KOMATSU LTD; HITACHI CORP 

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (85%); CATR (PAR) (85%); CAT (SWX) (85%); CAT (NYSE) (85%); MS (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%)

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHONGQING, CHINA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (74%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



57 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Stocks Hit Recent Highs On Surge in Manufacturing
American manufacturing activity shot up to its highest level in nearly 20 years last month as factories raced to keep up with demand and indicated a readiness to expand their work forces for the first time in three years, according to a key survey.
 The stock market climbed to its highest level in 18 months, with the Dow Jones industrial average rising 1.2 percent and the Standard & Poor's 500 1.1 percent as investors became more convinced that the blazing economic growth this summer was more than a flash in the pan. Page A1. 

Steel Makers Speak Out on Tariffs
With the White House signaling that President Bush will abide by a ruling of the World Trade Organization and lift the tariffs he placed on foreign steel, American steel makers declared that he should resist doing so rather than give in to threats of retaliation. A20.

Opening Salvos in Daimler Trial
Lawyers for Kirk Kerkorian, left, the billionaire Las Vegas casino operator and the largest shareholder of the premerger Chrysler, argued in federal court that he was duped out of billions of dollars in the merger of DaimlerChrysler, but the company said Mr. Kerkorian supported the deal and grew disgruntled only when his shares lost value. Mr. Kerkorian is suing Daimler for more than $1 billion. C2.

New Safety Rules for Auto Industry
The auto industry is set to announce a plan to redesign vehicles in a way that mitigates the dangers sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks pose to passenger cars. It will require automakers to make side airbags standard on new vehicles by 2009 as well as changes in S.U.V.'s and pickup trucks. C5.

Invesco May Face Civil Action
The New York attorney general and the Securities and Exchange Commission are expected to file civil suits this week against the Invesco Funds Group of Denver and its top three executives, possibly as early as today, people briefed on the matter said. Separately, the S.E.C. is planning to announce new rules on mutual fund trading tomorrow. C9.

HealthSouth to Remove Directors
The board of HealthSouth, the embattled national chain of hospitals and clinics, agreed under pressure to the removal of a number of board members who served when company executives were committing extensive securities fraud, according to people briefed on the decision. The board agreed to remake itself under pressure from a Delaware judge who was about to rule on a lawsuit that sought to force HealthSouth to hold an overdue annual meeting of shareholders. C2.

Time Out to Add to the Fold
The Time Out Group plans to introduce a magazine for Chicago next fall, joining its titles in London and New York. Advertising. C8.

Drugs are out and sex is in, at least when it comes to advertising on Internet search engines. C9.

Chairman of Skandia Resigns
Bengt Braun, left, the chairman of Skandia, stepped down after a seven month investigation found that previous top management had broken rules, ignored board recommendations, acted unethically and possibly illegally. Mr. Braun, who was not directly accused of wrongdoing, said he stepped down because he was a member of its board during that time. World Business, Section W.

Japan Extends Its Control of Banks
Japanese regulators formally took control of Ashikaga Bank, the first regional bank it has nationalized. Regulators have moved beyond big national banks to clean up regionals like Ashikaga. World Business, Section W.

Can a Jumbo Jet Be Too Big?
The superjumbo A380 from Airbus, in mock-up stage now, is huge, and that may be one of its problems. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,899.05 up 116.59Nasdaq composite -- 1,989.82 up 29.5610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.39% up 0.06The euro -- $1.1976 up 0.011The dollar -- 109.41 yen down 0.14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); SHAREHOLDERS (79%); MERGERS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); PICKUP TRUCKS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); CASINOS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (67%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); SEARCH ENGINES (60%); HOSPITALS (50%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%); INVESCO LTD (53%); HEALTHSOUTH CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%); IVZ (NYSE) (53%); HLS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (52%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (52%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (52%); SIC8093 SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



58 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Cubans on Trial in Case That Led to Crackdown by Castro 

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

DATELINE: KEY WEST, Fla., Dec. 1 

 BODY:
Federal prosecutors outlined a meticulous yearlong plot by six Cubans accused as hijackers as their trial started here on Monday. The case involves the first of several such incidents that heightened tensions between the White House and Cubans in both Havana and Miami.
 The six men are accused of using knives and an ax to take control of a flight from the Isle of Youth, off the southern coast of Cuba, to Havana on March 19. American fighter jets intercepted the plane and escorted it to Key West International Airport. None of the 31 passengers or 6 crew members were injured. 
 But the incident and two others that followed led President Fidel Castro to crack down on hijackings and accuse the United States of encouraging illegal immigration. In April, three Cubans who hijacked a ferry in a failed bid to reach the United States were executed.
Cuban exile leaders have said that the federal government is too worried about refuting Mr. Castro's accusations and that it should be lenient with the defendants because they were seeking freedom. Under the "wet foot, dry foot" policy, Cubans who arrive on American soil can stay in the United States. Those intercepted en route are returned.
Exile groups have pressured the Bush administration to ease the policy. They were particularly critical of a White House decision to return 12 Cubans suspected of hijacking a government boat in July. 
Federal prosecutors said on Monday that the six accused of hijacking the airplane had worked for more than a year to develop a plan to overwhelm the crew and passengers of an old DC-3 by force, intimidation and threats. The men scouted the route and choreographed their actions, prosecutors said. Minutes into the flight to Havana, they charged the cockpit and broke down the door.
In an opening statement, John Delionado, an assistant United States attorney, said the man thought to be the group's ringleader, Alexis Norneilla Morales, 31, held a knife to the pilot's throat and demanded that he fly north toward Miami. Another hijacker guarded the cockpit door, Mr. Delionado said, while two others tied crew members up at the back of the plane. A fifth defendant, he said, warned passengers: "Don't be heroes. Stay seated. We're going to America."
When one passenger tried to stop the hijackers from breaking down the cockpit door, they threatened him with a knife, Mr. Delionado said. 
All the defendants confessed to the hijacking, but three confessions were rejected because F.B.I. agents did not read the men their Miranda rights. If convicted, the six, ages 21 to 31, could face 20 years to life in prison. They are charged with conspiracy, trying to take over a plane forcefully and assaulting a flight crew. 
In a hijacking shortly after the one in March, the defendant, a Cuban architect, was convicted here and received the minimum sentence of 20 years in federal prison.
Defense lawyers painted a sharply different version of the March 19 case in their statements, saying the crew had helped plan the hijacking. Mr. Morales's lawyer, Stuart Abrams, said that the knives were on the plane before the passengers boarded and that the cockpit had landing charts for airports in Fort Lauderdale, Key West and Miami.
Mr. Abrams added that when the pilots radioed Cuba and the United States, they did not immediately report a hijacking, only that they had a "political situation," he said.
The presiding judge, James Lawrence King of Federal District Court, ruled last month that defense lawyers could not refer to Cuba's political or economic conditions.
Still, a defense lawyer, Reemberto Diaz, alluded to Cuban politics, asking, "Was this a hijacked plane or a freedom flight?" Mr. Diaz added that the United States had granted asylum to nearly half the passengers on the plane. "For once in their life," he said, "they are free."
The prosecutors objected, and Judge King agreed, saying, "We are not trying a political issue about freedom or lack thereof."
The prosecution called the pilot, who said that while the defendants threatened him with a knife, they did let him radio air traffic controllers in Havana to report the hijacking. 
The pilot, Daniel Blas Corria-Sanchez, said there was not enough fuel to reach Miami, the defendants' destination, and they let him fly here.
Cuba let Mr. Corria-Sanchez and a steward on the flight attend the trial as prosecution witnesses. Defense lawyers were not sure whether Cuba would agree to witnesses they sought, the co-pilot and the flight mechanic. The defense also seeks permission to fly to Cuba and depose more witnesses who were not allowed to attend the trial. 
In the last trial in the United States for hijacking a commercial plane, in 1997, three Cubans were acquitted of seizing a plane that ran out of fuel and crashed near Fort Myers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cuban planes at the Key West, Fla., airport in April. Six men hijacked the one on the left on March 19; the right plane was seized on March 31. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); HIJACKING (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FERRIES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); SENTENCING (79%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (76%); AIRPORTS (76%); AIRLINES (76%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); REFUGEES (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (69%); POLITICS (69%); MIRANDA RULE (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITEDSTATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FERRIES; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (90%) CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); GOODNOUGH, ABBY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (97%) CUBA; KEY WEST (FLA)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



59 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1831 words

HEADLINE: City Seeks Ideas As Trash Costs Dwarf Estimate 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration has concluded that its plan to compact mountains of residential trash and export it by barge or rail will take much longer and cost nearly twice as much as it projected, and officials now say they are once again looking for new ideas.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's decision to reopen the question of long-term ways to handle the city's garbage reflects an admission by his administration that a solution will be more complicated than the businessman-turned-politician had expected. The problem has vexed mayors for decades, and has caused no end of political troubles over proposals for trucking, incinerating and burying the trash. 
 Mr. Bloomberg is not abandoning his plan, announced with much fanfare in July 2002, to rebuild the eight Marine Transfer Stations around the city. The stations had once been used to gather trash for transport by barge to the Fresh Kills landfill in Staten Island, which is now closed. 
Officials now concede that the stations cannot simply be renovated; they must, in most cases, be demolished, expanded and rebuilt. Further, they said, doing that would cost $400 million and take six years, not $240 million and two years.
Aides to the mayor are to testify today before the City Council on the garbage problem and announce their proposal to seek additional ideas.
The Bloomberg administration has already decided to invite private contractors and trash disposal companies to set up barge or rail export facilities within the city at a lower cost. Doing that may eliminate the need to rebuild the transfer stations in the South Bronx and Greenpoint, Brooklyn.
The administration also plans to hire a consultant to evaluate longer-term alternatives, like a semi-submersible ship to send trash as far as the Caribbean or using a new technology that can turn trash into a natural gas and reusable stone-like material. 
Those steps could help the city replace the transfer stations in the future if exporting containerized trash through them proves to be too expensive, something the city now fears might happen soon because landfill prices are rising. 
"We are evaluating existing public and private sector capabilities and researching new technology for waste collection, shipping and disposal," Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for the mayor, said yesterday.
Since 1997, the city has relied on a solution it promised would be temporary to dispose of its trash: it sends most of it by truck to landfills, primarily in Pennsylvania and Virginia. That method replaced another temporary plan, one that had existed for 53 years: use of the Fresh Kills landfill. 
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki made good on a promise to heavily Republican Staten Island to close the landfill to residential waste, phasing in the shutdown over four years that ended in 2001. The city has not incinerated its trash since 1994.
The current plan, known as the interim export plan, has led to a rumble of trucks on streets and highways throughout the region, and has pleased no one, including Mayor Bloomberg and City Council leaders.
"Unfortunately, the interim plan, with the obnoxious land transfer stations, the thousands of trucks being put on the roads and the spiraling costs, is looking more and more like the long-term plan," said Councilman Michael E. McMahon, chairman of the sanitation and solid waste management committee, which will meet today for the briefing by the mayor's aides. "And that reality is quite frankly horrible."
Six days a week, about half of Manhattan's and Staten Island's garbage is now delivered by city trash truck to Newark, where it is incinerated at the trash-to-energy plant that American-Ref Fuel owns there. Almost all the rest of the city's trash is driven by city trash truck to land-based transfer stations, eight of them in the boroughs where it originated, and seven across the Hudson in Newark, Elizabeth, Paterson, Totowa and Jersey City.
That means that New York City's distinctive white trash trucks now make about 240,000 trips a year to and from New Jersey, mostly over the George Washington Bridge, taking at least 30 minutes to travel each way. In addition, 250,000 or so trips are made on the region's highways by tractor-trailers taking the waste to landfills in Pennsylvania, Virginia and Ohio. A tiny part of the city's 11,000 tons a day of residential trash goes to a landfill in upstate New York.
Moving it out of the city has proven to be enormously expensive. Just in tolls alone, the city spent $2.25 million last year. Trucking and landfill cost $248 million last year. In addition, the city has had to hire 300 extra relay drivers who take over after the trash is picked up at the curbs and drive the city sanitation trucks to transfer stations in New Jersey.
As a result, the total cost of disposing of a single ton of trash in 2002 was $257, 40 percent more than the $183 it cost in 1996.
Early in his administration, Mr. Bloomberg made finding a new way to handle the city's trash one of his top priorities. 
"We are not going to continue to give your kids lung disease, no matter what the cost is," the mayor said at City Hall in July 2002, when he unveiled his long-term solution. "That's the bottom line." 
He vowed to stop hauling trash out of the city by truck, saying that he would retrofit the eight old Marine Transfer Stations by 2004 and build a new one on Staten Island. Almost all those stations have been closed since 2001, as Fresh Kills shut. 
The goal, he said, was to get the trash out of the city by barge or rail, and not by truck, which adds to air pollution and traffic problems and sends city sanitation trucks streaming through suburban New Jersey six days a week.
Mr. Bloomberg, who made his billions by applying technology to old problems, has since learned that his solution is enormously more complicated than he had expected. 
The eight city Marine Transfer Stations, when used to move trash to Fresh Kills, were little more than piers with a pit through which trash could be dropped into an open barge. Under the mayor's plan, the city would compress the trash and seal it into specially designed containers that could more easily and cheaply be stacked onto an oceangoing barge or put onto a rail car and shipped great distances.
The new stations would need a large open floor where the trash would be dumped before being compressed and stuffed into the sealed containers. The problem is that the old transfer stations are just not large enough. The city would have to extend the piers they are on, creating, for example, about half an acre of new property at West 59th Street in Manhattan, a 50 percent increase in the size of the current pier.
"The harder we looked, the more we learned there is nothing left that you can use," Walter A. Czwartacky, director of special projects at the Department of Sanitation, said of the old transfer stations.
Another hurdle has been opposition on the Upper East Side and in Harlem in Manhattan to the plans to reopen two of the old transfer stations. Among the opponents is the City Council speaker, Gifford Miller, who represents the East 91st Street neighborhood where one of the now-dormant stations is located.
Mr. Bloomberg no longer is predicting that the retrofitted transfer stations could be ready to handle waste by 2004. Construction is not expected to begin until next year at the earliest. 
The city is now looking for ways to speed up the shift to an export system that uses mainly barges and rail cars. The easiest alternative would be to find companies that own existing trash transfer stations that could be quickly converted and then used to export trash by barge or rail.
The Harlem River railyard in the South Bronx, for example, owned by Waste Management Company, sends about 420,000 tons of trash a year out of the city by train. City officials are hoping that reconfiguring or expanding that facility might save the city at least part of the $50 million it had planned to spend to rebuild it. Similar alternatives may be considered for the station in Greenpoint, where another private trash company operates.
The Bloomberg administration is looking even further ahead to find ways to control trash export costs. 
Some of the landfills the city relies on, particularly those in Pennsylvania, are filling up so quickly that the city is concerned that they will run out of space, and that the costs will rise concurrently. The Bloomberg administration plans to hire a consultant to evaluate new techniques. 
James C. Florio, a Fort Lauderdale, Fla., entrepreneur, believes, for example, that he can save the city $1 billion over 20 years by building three 900-foot semisubmersible ships, at a cost of $100 million apiece. Mr. Florio said the ships would carry as many as 18 of the old-style barges at a time to landfills in the northeastern United States or to an island in the Caribbean, which he would not name, where an incinerator would be built. 
The City Department of Sanitation has twice evaluated that idea in recent years and concluded that it would not work financially. Still, Bloomberg administration officials said, it was worth one more look.
Among other ideas the consultant will likely be asked to assess is a proposal to build a trash plant within New York City that would heat waste to such a high temperature -- perhaps 30,000 degrees -- that the garbage would break into elemental components, creating byproducts of natural gas and a stone-like residue. The gas the plant would create could be used to power it.
One company that recycles paper for the city on Staten Island, Visy Industries, has already proposed a so-called gasification plant that would allow Staten Island's waste to be either recycled or disposed of without shipping it out of state, city officials said.
"You can't embrace a new technology and overnight make it a new solution for 12,000 tons a day of residential waste moving out of New York City," said Kate Ascher, executive vice president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, which the mayor has asked to help long-term alternatives for exporting the waste. "It requires careful analysis, possibly pilot projects and testing and consensus among various groups with an interest in the city's waste handling policies."
The evaluation of these new technologies will come at the same time that the city must solicit bids from landfill and incinerator operators to dispose of the city's garbage for 20 or so more years. 
Councilman David S. Yassky, a Brooklyn Democrat who is also a member of the sanitation and solid waste management committee, said he was pleased the mayor has brought in help from outside the department and is now hiring an outside consultant.
"I just have a frightening sense of drift on this problem," he said. "Six months seems to go by and we are not closer to a long-term solution. And what we have right now is terribly expensive, terribly damaging to air quality and to all the neighborhoods we have to run the trucks through."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Where New York City's Trash Goes . . ."Average tons of trash delivered to disposal sites each working day from July through October, 2003. In the same period, New York City exported an average of 10,978 tons a day. Note: Only sites receiving more than 1 percent of New York City's trash are shown. . . . And What It Costs to Get It There Graphs track total cost to export trash, the average cost of trash export, and the tons of trash hauled away by contractors since 1998. *Fresh Kills landfill stopped accepting municipal waste in March 2001, near the end of the 2000 fiscal year. Charts do not include World Trade Center debris. (Source by New York City Department of Sanitation)(pg. B7) Map of the Northeast highlighting states where New York City's trash goes. (pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LANDFILLS (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (78%); CITIES (77%); POLITICS (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (63%); PRICE INCREASES (61%) WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; INCINERATORS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LANDFILL 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) LIPTON, ERIC; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



60 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: A CONVERSATION WITH: Steffie Woolhandler; 
Heal Health Care System? Start Anew

BYLINE:  By JUDY FOREMAN

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Dec. 1 

 BODY:
Dr. Steffie Woolhandler, 52, an associate professor at Harvard Medical School and an internist at Cambridge Hospital, wants to change the health care system. Soon, and not in the way Congress just did.
 Her plan is simple. Get rid of the private health insurance industry and abolish Medicaid, the government's health insurance program for the poor. In their stead, set up a national health insurance system that would cover all Americans by expanding Medicare, the old-style Medicare, to include everyone from birth to death. 
 Dr. Woolhandler's plan would add prescription drug benefits to Medicare, as the newly passed bill does. But in her plan, drugs would be paid 100 percent by the government, not administered through private insurance plans. She would also abolish co-pays and deductibles for both drugs and medical visits.
Patients would still choose their doctors, who would be paid on a fee-for-service basis. Hospitals would be privately run and would be paid a fixed monthly budget. By getting rid of the high administrative costs of private insurance, the money that people now pay out in premiums would be collected as a new tax.
Dr. Woolhandler's commitment to social justice began in her childhood in Shreveport, La. Her father was a doctor and her mother a homemaker who died when Steffie was 8. Her father hired black women to take care of his four daughters, who sometimes visited these women in their shacks on roads the city never paved. That injustice was not lost on the Woolhandler girls.
At medical school at Louisiana State at New Orleans, she became exasperated with what she felt was the conservatism of many medical professionals, she said, and opted to do her internship at San Francisco General Hospital and at a public hospital in Oakland, Calif. There, she met Dr. David Himmelstein, who became her partner, frequent co-author, officemate at Cambridge Hospital and the father of their daughters, 15 and 13. 
When Dr. Himmelstein won a fellowship to Harvard Medical School, the couple moved east and Dr. Woolhandler took a job teaching at Boston University School of Public Health. 
In back-to-back papers in the nation's two most prestigious medical journals last summer, Dr. Woolhander and her co-authors spelled out their view of health care reform.
Drs. Woolhandler, Himmelstein, Marcia Angell (the former editor of The New England Journal of Medicine and a senior lecturer at Harvard) and Quentin D. Young (national coordinator of the Physicians for a National Health Program) published a paper in The Journal of the American Medical Association in August calling for a single-payer system. It was endorsed by 8,000 other doctors.
A week later, Dr. Woolhandler and Dr. Himmelstein wrote an article in The New England Journal of Medicine arguing that administrative costs were breaking the back of the American health care system. 

Q. How does the United States compare to other industrialized countries in health care expenditures?

A. We spend about twice as much on health care -- $5,600 per person in 2003 -- as the average in other developed nations, yet we still have more than 41 million uninsured.

Q. Are we getting better health care? After all, we do have lots of high-tech equipment and fancy hospitals.

A. No. Western Europe and Canada have high-tech medicine, as well, but they spend about half of what we do.

Q. What is driving our high health care costs?

A. Administrative costs. As of 1999, these accounted for 31 percent of U.S. health care expenditures, compared to 16.7 percent in Canada. In fact, we spent $1,059 per person on administrative costs, compared to $307 in Canada. With a single-payer system, we could save $209 billion a year by eliminating the high overhead and profits of the private insurance industry. Administrative costs may even be higher with the new Medicare bill.

Q. Are the rich, or even the middle-class people who now have private health insurance, going to go for national health care? Or, as Dr. Rashi Fein, emeritus professor of the economics of medicine at Harvard, wondered in an editorial accompanying your piece in JAMA, would switching to a single-payer system would prove "too much for the political system to handle"?

A. Middle-class people often think they have good insurance until they get sick. Then they often find their H.M.O. refuses to pay for the care they need or at least part of the care is excluded from their coverage.

Q. Who would lose under a single-payer system?

A. Private insurance companies. The drug companies would also lose because they would be forced to lower their prices.

Q. We hear horror stories about long waiting lines in Canada. If Americans couldn't buy private health insurance, how could they be sure they would get timely, modern care? Who would protect them?

A. What's to protect them now, with insurance companies' running the show? There have been waits for some procedures in Canada and other places. But that's because the system is underfunded, not because it's structurally wrong.

Q. You got 8,000 doctors to endorse your single-payer article in JAMA. But there are 836,000 physicians in the country. The American Medical Association is opposed to a single-payer system. What, if anything, is going to get a vast majority of doctors on your side?

A. We want to get a real debate going, so the American people can choose. If no one discusses it, we have deprived the American people of their right to choose.

Q. Is it too late to move ahead on your plan for national health insurance now that Congress has passed the new Medicare bill?

A. Actually, no. The reasons for moving ahead are even larger. We are going to see more money spent on administrative costs than before. The bill doesn't even benefit seniors, much less extend benefits to everyone else.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Steffie Woolhandler wants to see a national health insurance plan. (Photo by Rick Friedman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (90%); MEDICARE (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); WRITERS (85%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); WOMEN (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); INSURANCE (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); BUDGETS (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (70%); RESEARCH REPORTS (66%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (63%); MEDICAID (58%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals) ; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (59%) Harvard Medical School; Cambridge Hospital; Journal of the American Medical Assn

PERSON: Judy Foreman; Steffie (Dr) Woolhandler

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (53%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003



61 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Unearth Urban Center More Ancient Than Plato 

BYLINE:  By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

 BODY:
Digging on a coastal plain at the Gulf of Corinth three years ago, archaeologists came upon some ruins of Helike, a Greek city destroyed by earthquake in Plato's time. A search for the rest of Helike has now turned up something even more ancient, rare and inviting.
 The archaeologists say they have uncovered the stone foundations, cobbled streets and pottery of a well-preserved 4,500-year-old urban center, one of the few Early Bronze Age communities ever found on the Greek mainland. 
 Preliminary investigation at the prehistoric site, the researchers say, reveals that this was a prosperous town at the time pre-Homeric Troy enjoyed one of its richest periods. The new-found ruins yielded a tall cylindrical cup in the style of graceful cups known from Troy, suggesting a wider Trojan influence than previously established. 
The discovery of the ancient town, name unknown and its existence unsuspected, was described in recent interviews with members of the excavating team that came upon its traces in 2001. Further explorations last summer confirmed their assessment of what they had found.
The ruins were uncovered a few hundred feet from the earlier discovery among vineyards and orchards 26 miles east of the modern port city of Patras. The ceramics enabled archaeologists to date the Bronze Age site there at 2600 to 2300 B.C.
Dr. Dora Katsonopoulou, an archaeologist and co-director of the Helike excavation, said last week that "it was clear from the very beginning that we had made a significant discovery."
In interviews by e-mail and telephone from Athens, Dr. Katsonopoulou said the remains were undisturbed by later occupations of the site and "so offers the great and rare opportunity to us to study and reconstruct everyday life and economy of one of the most important periods of the Early Bronze Age."
In 2000, after 12 years of searching, Dr. Katsonopoulou announced the discovery of buried ruins of Helike (pronounced huh-LEE-kee) known to Homer, Plato and other writers in antiquity. The city was destroyed in 373 B.C. by an earthquake followed by a towering tidal wave. Its disappearance beneath the sea is said to have inspired Plato's story of the legendary Atlantis.
It was while looking for the center of Helike, as yet undiscovered, that archaeologists drilled holes elsewhere on the coastal plain and reached deposits of bone, shell, charcoal and pottery. They dug trenches and in 2001 happened on evidence of the earlier town.
"We were looking for a Classical Pompeii and we found a Bronze Age Pompeii," said Dr. Steven Soter of the American Museum of Natural History, the other excavation leader.
The trenches exposed stone walls of buildings flanking paved streets. Pottery, mostly intact, lay all around. There were clay jars, cooking pots, tankards and kraters, wide bowls used for mixing wine and water. Their distinctive styles were the big surprise.
Dr. Soter, a planetary scientist drawn to Helike research by his interest in earthquakes, recalled standing at the top of the deep trench where Dr. Katsonopoulou was working.
"Dora looked up and said, 'These pots are prehistoric, more than 2,000 years older than the city we had been excavating,' " Dr. Soter said. "She was amazed. All of us were amazed."
Dr. Katsonopoulou submitted a formal report on the findings to the Greek Ministry of Culture yesterday. An article on excavations at both the Classical and prehistoric sites at Helike is scheduled for publication in the January issue of Archaeology, the magazine of the Archaeological Institute of America.
As the digging continued, archaeologists found luxury items like gold and silver clothing ornaments and the "depas" cup in the Trojan style. Heinrich Schliemann, excavating the ruins of Troy in the 19th century, was the first to describe such cups and associate them with nobility.
Although one of the two loop handles on the Helike cup is missing, the vessel's cylindrical shape and remaining handle are almost identical to that of a Trojan depas drinking cup displayed at the recent exhibition "Art of the First Cities: The Third Millennium B.C. From the Mediterranean to the Indus" at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.
The excavators have circulated a picture of the cup to what they say is a limited number of recipients, but Dr. Katsonopoulou refused to release the picture for publication now, pending a more formal announcement in a professional journal.
At its height, the Bronze Age town at Helike was a contemporary of an ascendant Troy, as revealed in its ruins from the third millennium B.C., known to archaeologists as Troy II and III.
Schliemann recovered substantial treasures of gold and bronze from these layers and mistakenly concluded that these were remains of the later Troy of the 13th century B.C., the city of Priam and Hector, besieged by the Greek forces of Agamemnon and the warrior Achilles in a war memorialized in "The Iliad" of Homer.
Dr. John E. Coleman, an archaeologist and professor of classics at Cornell, called the new site an exciting find.
"It's not just a little farmstead," Dr. Coleman, who has visited the ruins twice, said in a telephone interview. "It has the look of a settlement that may be planned, with buildings aligned to a system of streets, which is pretty rare for that period. And the depas cup is very important because it suggests international contacts."
Dr. Helmut Bruckner, a geologist and geographer at the University of Marburg in Germany who has inspected the dig, said the excavators have "indeed found a site with many excellent artifacts and well-preserved Bronze Age walls."
In an interview by e-mail, Dr. Bruckner said that the age and artifacts of the Bronze Age Helike suggested possible trading relations with Troy, though "this is not yet established." The geology of the site, he said, indicated that it was a coastal town and "at the time had a strategic importance" in shipping.
The size and population of the Bronze Age town cannot be estimated until more extensive exploration is conducted, the discoverers said. It could have been a town of a few hundred or more people, and might have extended over an area of as much as 10 acres. So far, no human skeletal remains have been found.
Next year, the research team plans an extensive seismic survey of the plain using techniques from oil exploration. Seismic signals reflected off solid buried objects should produce a map of the city wall, building foundations and other structures of the entire city.
Dr. Katsonopoulou believes the town was probably a well-organized regional center of some wealth, judging by the excavated luxury goods. It probably controlled sea trade in the area and was run by a ruler in a hierarchy-based society.
In any case, other researchers say, the site could lead to important insights about a period in Greece that is little known to archaeologists.
An examination of the stone walls and the sediments covering the Bronze Age ruins, Dr. Soter said, showed that the early town had met the same fate as its Classical successor. Abrupt dips in some walls indicated destruction by earthquake. And the presence of sea urchin spines and other marine organisms in the clay, he said, strongly suggested that after the earthquake and land subsidence, the town ruins sank into a lagoon or the sea itself.
With subsequent changes in the shoreline, the town ruins now lie buried about a half-mile inland, on a river delta that is increasingly being developed by builders of vacation homes. The World Monuments Fund recently included Helike on its 2004 list of the 100 most endangered cultural sites.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Archaeologists working at a site of Greek ruins from the Early Bronze Age, far older than Homer. At right is the area looking toward Athens. (Photographs from the Helike Project) Map shows Greece highlighting the buried city of Helike.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHAEOLOGY (95%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (95%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); HISTORY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); CLASSICS (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); WRITERS (61%) Archaeology and Anthropology; Earthquakes; Ceramics and Pottery; Bronze Age; Tidal Waves ; Archaeology and Anthropology; Maps; International Trade and World Market; Research; Greek Civilization

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (59%) American Museum of Natural History (NYC)

PERSON: John Noble Wilford; Dora (Dr) Katsonopoulou; Steven (Dr) Soter

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (92%) GREECE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) Greece; Helike (Ancient Greece)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



62 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Health & Fitness; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Medical Students Go Beyond Books to Learn About Activism 

BYLINE:  By SHARON LERNER

 BODY:
She already knows how to read an EKG. And she was taught to measure blood pressure three years ago. But in her fourth year of medical school, Hilda Fernandez is learning how to quantify hope.
 One of a growing number of medical students taking courses in social activism, Ms. Fernandez is trying to move beyond the straightforward science that has occupied so much of her time during her professional education. 
 As her final project for the class, she is trying to gauge the optimism of the Latino patients she treats before and after she educates them about diabetes.
"It's not just the hemoglobin that's important, but how we're able to improve their life outlook," Ms. Fernandez said. "That way I could show that the program is worth funding."
Far removed from the rote memorization so often required of medical students, such complicated social, political and practical advocacy issues are creeping into medical curriculums across the country.
Ms. Fernandez is enrolled in "Research-Based Health Activism" at the Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, a class that draws budding doctors from all over the country. For a month they focus exclusively on creating change in both patients' lives and in health policy.
Over the past six years, similar courses have been introduced at several medical schools, including Case Western Reserve University, the University of North Carolina and the University of Pennsylvania.
Doctors were tackling policy issues long before Howard Dean became a presidential candidate. They have influenced everything from hospital practice to global politics.
For instance, Dr. Ignaz Semmelweis, a 19th-century Viennese obstetrician, campaigned to get his colleagues to wash their hands after realizing that physicians were spreading puerperal fever among patients.
Dr. Rudolf Virchow, a contemporary of Semmelweis's, railed against poverty and told his fellow doctors, "If medicine is to fulfill her great task then she must enter the political and social life."
And the advocacy group International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1985 for working to abolish nuclear weapons.
Students in the health activism course in the Bronx hear from many of today's physician advocates, including Dr. Oliver Fein, a vocal supporter of a single-payer health care system, and Dr. Bertrand Bell, a surgeon who led a successful campaign to limit medical residents' hours in New York State.
Classes focus on the way economics, business and government policy affect the practice of medicine, with lectures on treating the uninsured, dealing with Medicare, creating advocacy organizations and using scientific findings to lobby.
To Dr. Peter Lurie, a physician who has helped plan many of these new courses, such policy-oriented work goes hand in hand with the practice of medicine.
"Physicians are inherently activists," said Dr. Lurie, who works for the health research branch of the consumer advocacy group Public Citizen.
"These are people who say, 'I'm going to do everything I can about a patient's condition,' " he said. "What we're doing is bringing that instinctual activism all doctors have to the social arena."
In order to have sway among their colleagues -- and earn medical school credit -- advocating for social change involves more than chanting and protesting, of course. Participants in the activism courses organize and, in most cases, conduct research studies relating to issues that trouble them. And, if the data they collect strengthen their case, students are encouraged to try to influence public opinion.
David Herszenson, a fourth-year medical student at the University of Wisconsin who enrolled in the course in the Bronx, hopes that the research he is doing for class will ultimately help lower health care costs. Mr. Herszenson is researching the effect of marketing campaigns for brand-name drugs.
"You see patients all the time wanting to know about some drug they've heard about in an ad," says Mr. Herszenson, 27. "But the ads direct them to the newest most expensive therapy, which isn't always the best."
If his findings support his contention that pharmaceutical marketing unnecessarily increases drug costs, he plans to include them in a pamphlet that will urge patients to "ask your doctor about cheaper generic alternatives," which he will then distribute in doctors' offices. 
Other student projects have already yielded results outside the classroom. In a similar course Dr. Lurie of Public Citizen taught to undergraduates at the University of Michigan in 1997, three student projects were published in peer-reviewed medical journals. Dr. Lurie helped arrange a news conference to highlight the work of one team, which compared cigarette package labels in the United States and in developing countries.
While some students seem intent on changing the world with ambitious projects tackling international tobacco sales, homelessness and other major problems, others hone their advocacy efforts on changing the world of medicine.
Tania Thomas and Scott Heysell, two students in the Bronx course, for instance, are aiming their hunger campaign at physicians, a group they say is mostly unaware of the problem.
"Maybe a pediatrician will ask if a child is a picky eater, but they don't ask, 'Does your child get three meals a day?' " Ms. Thomas said. "It's a real disconnect."
In response, the two students are creating a resource book so doctors can direct their patients to food stamp offices and emergency food pantries.
With numerous forms to fill out, patients to see and other important problems to look out for, many doctors probably will not find the time to use the resource book. But the latest group of medical students advocating various causes is hopeful that some will manage to insert pressing social issues into their practices -- just as the students themselves have squeezed a course on social issues into their own grueling schedules.
For Ms. Fernandez, who came from California to take the activism course, the effort was worthwhile.
"Medical students tend to want to do just straight studying because there's this strong interest in being a great student," she said. "But we're not going to be professional students for the rest of our lives, we're going to be physicians. I think if you just bury your head in the science books, you're missing out on a huge aspect of medicine."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 3, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times yesterday about medical school courses on social activism misstated the specialty of Dr. Bertrand Bell, a professor at Albert Einstein College who led a successful campaign to limit residents' hours in New York State. He is an internist, not a surgeon.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As part of a class on health advocacy, David Herszenson, a fourth-year medical student, is researching the effects of marketing campaigns for brand-name drugs. (Photo by Barbara Alper for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL EDUCATION (91%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); CURRICULA (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); LOBBYING (76%); HOSPITALS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); POLITICS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); MEDICARE (73%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (72%); DIABETES (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); AWARDS & PRIZES (61%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) Medicine and Health; Doctors; Medical Schools

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (54%) Montefiore Medical Center (NYC)

PERSON: Sharon Lerner; Hilda Fernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



63 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Wear a Holiday Shrug And an Open Mind 

BYLINE:  By CATHY HORYN

 BODY:
The little black dress is passe, the cocktail suit is a bore, and don't even think about getting cute with a reindeer sweater. Holiday dressing, like just about everything else in fashion, demands more finesse than excess, more polish than glitter. And a little bit of mistletoe provocation doesn't hurt either.
 For the three holiday cocktail parties that Valerie Gonzalez-Molina of Larchmont, N.Y., plans to attend on Saturday with her husband, Robert, a dentist, she will have on a pair of brown velvet trousers with a low-cut black silk blouse. "Not to be too trampy or trashy, but it's Gucci -- and one of Tom Ford's last collections," said Ms. Gonzalez-Molina, 41, a saleswoman for a Manhattan company that provides corporate gifts for investment bankers. 
 Though Ms. Gonzalez-Molina insists that her husband is the fashion authority in the family ("He reads Vogue before I do"), she is approaching the dress-up season with a distinctly open mind. For another party, she says she might wear a black sheer Dolce & Gabbana blouse with trousers. "I'm not into anything sleeveless," she added. But sheer is O.K. Then there is that burgundy wool Prada skirt with the matching crew-neck sweater, which she will wear with a pair of old Narciso Rodriguez stiletto sandals. "I'm done with red," she said emphatically. And for a dinner dance at a golf club in Rye, she plans to wear a simple bias-cut Carolina Herrera dress. 
It isn't altogether surprising that glamour now has a sexy edge and a casual indifference to the old ways. "Everything is getting a bit more brazen," said the designer Nicole Miller, who had attended a cocktail party on the Upper East Side where many of the women were in pants and sweaters or very low-cut blouses.
In Chicago, Maria de Santaren, a partner in Muse, a firm that makes upscale linens for the decorating trade, said she planned to wear a silver satin Narciso Rodriguez skirt with a ribbed sweater for a benefit party. "It's much more interesting than a little black dress," she said. But for an event at the Peninsula Hotel -- one of many on her schedule -- she would wear a vintage Pucci shirt, tailored jeans and five-inch stilettos.
"Festive dressing keeps getting redefined," said Julie Gilhart, the fashion director of Barneys. "You can get away with wearing jeans and a little fur vest, or you can wear a black dress with droopy earrings. How you wear your makeup can make the difference. And a gold leather clutch will signify that you're dressing up."
Maybe because the economy is perking up, people are more optimistic, if not more open-minded, about the holidays and dressing for parties, whether at the office or at home. And given that the two most bandied-about words in fashion are casual and luxury, tailored jeans, like those by Rogan or Citizens of Humanity, can look right, especially on young women, with filmy tops salted with beads or rhinestones. Metallic or brocade high heels make the look seem impudently refined without being serious.
The hot accessory for the holidays is the fur shrug or bolero. Bergdorf Goodman and Bloomingdale's have them in all price ranges, beginning with dyed fox scarves for about $250. Though some vintage-inspired styles look a little bit like granny's old mink pelt come to rest sadly on your shoulders, the idea of wearing a bolero or a cropped vest with a pale charmeuse dress jibes with a 1920's mood running through fashion.
And, as Robert Burke, the fashion director of Bergdorf Goodman, points out, fur accessories are within the means of young consumers. "They may buy the Rebecca Taylor or Theory dress, but they'll save up for a fur piece or a good pair of shoes," Mr. Burke said. For those who have ethical objections to fur, there are decorative alternatives: lace shrugs and beaded sweaters.
This was a season, too, in which designers like Oscar de la Renta and Rochas did well with ball skirts, but retailers also see a trend for short, skimmy dresses and for separates, like Prada chiffon blouses, camisoles and Chanel-inspired tweed jackets. Marc Jacobs did his variation on the Chanel tweed, but so did a brand call Tibi, which Bloomingdale's sells for $484. In a confetti tweed, it would look great for a holiday party with a skimpy sheer top and a pair of skinny jeans and high heels.
One thing that retailers and manufacturers learned from the last two lean years, Mr. Burke said, is how to combine better design with more affordable clothing. "Everyone got sharper," he said. That is why those fur shrugs proliferated, at prices in the neighborhood of $1,000, alongside $250 charmeuse or jersey dresses. It is feminine loot without too much holiday guilt.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A bustier by A.B.S. at Lord & Taylor.; Prada snakeskin sandal, $595 at Bergdorf.; Lambertson Truex clutch at Bergdorf Goodman.; Rhinestone mule by Constanca Basto at Bendel.; A beaded lace shrug by Lulu Guinness at Bendel, $258.; Zandra Rhodes jersey top, $1,418; shoes by Constanca Basto, $295. At Bendel.; From left, Theory blazer, $380, with a BCBG chiffon dress, $260, at Bloomingdale's; dress by J. Mendel, $4,875, with a fox shrug, $3,900, at Bergdorf Goodman; Diane Von Furstenberg dress, $275 at Barneys, with a Cassin cardigan, $998 at Bergdorf's.; Raccoon shrug, $1,725 at Bergdorf's.; A charmeuse dress by Rebecca Taylor, $275, with a Cassin fur shrug, $895; stiletto shoes by Azzedine Alaia. All at Bergdorf Goodman. (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (68%) Apparel; Women; Jeans (Apparel)

PERSON: DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (58%) Cathy Horyn

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



64 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: Times Sq. Gridlock . . . on Sidewalk; 
Lapse in Law Puts Hawkers in Way and Pedestrians in a Jam

BYLINE:  By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
It was a balmy November midnight as Antonio Goring surveyed what has become of Times Square: the huge video screens, the chockablock rows of sidewalk vendors, and the horde of pedestrians that spills from jammed sidewalks into crowded streets. 
 "This is what makes New York New York," said Mr. Goring, 25, who was on the town late with four friends and clearly having a good time. "The crowds, the vendors, the roasted nuts; even the fake watches just add to the fun." 
 But that enthusiasm is not shared by a politically potent group of property owners, merchants and elected officials in Manhattan and Albany. They say Times Square's sidewalks have become so crowded that they threaten public safety. Not to mention tax revenue, tourism, retail sales, garbage collection, office productivity and even efforts to ward off terrorism. 
"I wish we could expand the island of Manhattan, but we can't," said Iris Weinshall, the city's transportation commissioner. "We built our sidewalks for a certain level of service, and whenever you force people into the gutter you put them at risk."
For now, the main focus of complaints is a land rush of sidewalk vendors who have descended on Times Square's main avenues since March. Although vendors have always hawked their wares in the neighborhood -- selling everything from $5 portraits drawn on the spot to counterfeit handbags -- they have been allowed to jam previously off-limit sidewalks because a law was allowed to lapse in March.
"I think we could do without the vendors," said Massimo Kusmann, a project manager for Reuters America Inc., as he stood yesterday on the sidewalk at Seventh Avenue between 42nd and 43rd Streets. "Maybe the tourists like them, but the rest of us have a problem."
Gov. George E. Pataki has already met with Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and Senate Majority Leader Joseph L. Bruno hoping to forge preliminary agreement on new vendor regulations that could be adopted in a special legislative session later this month. No agreement was reached, but Mr. Silver and other legislators from the city are pushing for quick action. 
"The sidewalk problem is going to magnify tenfold as we approach Christmas," said Assemblyman Steven Sanders, a Manhattan Democrat who sponsored the street vendor regulations enacted in 1990 that were allowed to lapse. "We obviously have to move." 
Meanwhile, since the holiday shopping season began on Friday, the police have stepped into the breach, using the authority they have always had to clear sidewalk vendors during parades, performances and other events that lead to congestion. Deputy Chief Michael Collins, a police spokesman, said yesterday that precinct commanders would decide when and where to clear vendors each day until after Jan. 1. 
Street vending is hardly confined to Times Square. Vendors provoked angry protests after the attack on the World Trade Center in 2001, when they set up shop en masse around ground zero, and their numbers are growing in Herald Square, Rockefeller Center, the ferryboat waiting area in Battery Park and elsewhere. 
But Times Square has become the battleground, largely because its busiest sidewalks -- those along Broadway and Seventh Avenue -- were jammed even before the vendors arrived. 
The crowds reflect what many consider a marvel of economic development -- new office towers, reduced crime and new businesses drawing thousands of pedestrians at all hours. 
The sidewalks of Times Square are also impeded by stationary groups of smokers outside their office buildings, massive concrete planters on the sidewalks designed to block suicide bombers and screeching crowds of teenagers who gather below a second-story window of the MTV studios. 
"I think having 10,000 teeny-boppers is great, but when you also have 500 vendors taking up 30 percent of the sidewalk, something has to give," said Tim Tompkins, president of the Times Square Business Improvement District, a property owners' group. 
The group hires consultants periodically to measure pedestrian traffic, and has found huge increases since the mid-1990's. The business improvement district also counted people spilling off the sidewalks into the street. In a worse case, it found 6,959 people walking in the street from 8:30 a.m. to midnight on Oct. 25 in front of the Virgin Music Megastore on Seventh Avenue between 45th Street and 46th Street.
Some of those exiled into the street are using an experimental system of sidewalk extensions -- painted white lines, some set off by temporary posts attached to the pavement -- put in place by the city in 2001. Ms. Weinshall says the experiment with temporary sidewalk extensions has been successful enough to make them permanent in the 2005 fiscal year, when the city will spend about $10 million to expand the pavement, move signs and make the temporary measures permanent.
But Mr. Tompkins warns that such precautions may not prevent injuries. "We are playing with fire," he said.
Ms. Weinshall says the city is looking for other strips of Times Square pavement that could be claimed for pedestrian use. But she said that other measures were needed, including restrictions on sidewalk vending.
Cristyne L. Nicholas, president of NYC & Company, the city's tourism office, said the sidewalk vendors were scaring away visitors, cutting into store sales and tax receipts, and making it harder to ward off terrorism. 
"The vendors have become a deterrent," she said, adding that a new law to limit vending "is something we needed yesterday." 
The restrictions that lapsed in March were an outgrowth of rules going back to the years after the Civil War, when the state entitled disabled veterans to use almost any sidewalk to sell their wares.
The veterans and other vendors were banned from using the most congested sidewalks in 1990, after legislators responded to complaints from building owners and retailers about lost business. In Times Square, that meant they could use sidewalks on the side streets but not the avenues. 
That all changed in March when members of the Assembly refused to accept a Senate version that would have extended the old vendor law without incorporating changes that had been sought by the veterans, business groups and the city. So the law expired. 
Suddenly, the veterans were allowed to set up shop in the middle of the heaviest sidewalk traffic. And once the veterans had moved, they were followed by a larger group of vendors who are able to claim a First Amendment right to sell any merchandise that is artistic or composed of printed matter, even if it involves no more creativity than mass-producing photographs of celebrities or tall buildings. 
These vendors have always been allowed to operate on the same blocks as the veterans, since lawyers for the city say it cannot deny a First Amendment right when state law has already established the same right on the basis of someone's military history. And while the number of veteran vendors is limited by the number of city licenses they are issued, there are no limits on those claiming a First Amendment right to hawk their wares.
The Times Square improvement district has surveyed vendors three times since the law lapsed. It found 208 vendors on the Times Square sidewalks on Oct. 15, 66 more than were there on April 23. 
Most of vending had become concentrated on the busiest blocks of Broadway, Seventh Avenue and 42nd Street, with some of the First Amendment vendors setting up tables very close to crosswalks and curb cuts for the disabled, and frustrating pedestrians. 
Now, with the pressure mounting for new limits, some of the vendors say that they have established sidewalk businesses that are a benefit to visitors and that it would be unfair to make them move.
"I'd go out of business," said Daniel Galarza of Queens, who operates an instant photo business on the sidewalk at the northeast corner of 45th Street and Seventh Avenue. He will take a picture of visitors for $15 (or two photos for $20) with Times Square as a backdrop, something he cannot do on a side street. 
"It is too crowded, but the problem is a few vendors are ruining it for everybody," he said, pointing to a group of vendors whose merchandise was stacked high and wide on the sidewalk. 
Assemblyman Sanders said no decision had been made about the precise language of vendor legislation in Albany, but the new law would most likely force a majority of vendors back to the side streets around Times Square and impose new restrictions around ground zero.
The new rules may also increase the number of permits that are granted to disabled veterans, he said, and authorize the city to enact greater controls over the vendors claiming a First Amendment right.
Some of the disabled veteran vendors who initially welcomed thechance to ply the busiest sidewalks say even they are now being squeezed out. 
"We want to get rid of the people who are infringing on the veterans," said Richard Pedro, the New York State adjutant of the American Legion. "It has gotten out of hand."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some Times Square stores and property owners want sidewalk vendors banished because of the congestion they cause. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)(pg. B1); With First Amendment help, vendors sell art along Times Square's sidewalks. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B2) Illustration (Illustration by James Bronzan/The New York Times)(pg. B1) Chart/Map: "Vendors Crowding Times Square"Map of Times Sqaure and surrounding areas highlights Disabled Veteran Vendors unlicensed vendors, 1st Amendment vendors, and food vendors on the following days:WEDNESDAY, APRIL 23, 2003, 4 P.M. -- 109 total vendorsWEDNESDAY, OCT. 15, 2003, 4 P.M. -- 136 total vendors . . Push Pedestrians Aside PEDESTRIAN COUNTSSATURDAYS, 3:15 P.M. TO 7 P.M. 1.May 3On the sidewalk: 15,395In the street: 1,064 Oct. 25On the sidewalk: 22,094In the street: 4,382 2.May 3On the sidewalk: 22,951In the street: 172 Oct. 25On the sidewalk: 23,367In the street: 1,729 3.May 3On the sidewalk: 15,153In the street: 112 Oct. 25On the sidewalk: 20,202In the street: 447 4.May 3On the sidewalk: 23,044In the street: 191 Oct. 25On the sidewalk: 19,860In the street: 550 Numbers 1,2,3,4 (above) correspond to different designated areas of Times Square. (Source by Times Square Business Improvement District)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLICE FORCES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); COUNTERFEITING (71%); RETAIL SALES (69%); TERRORISM (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); CHRISTMAS (60%) Retail Stores and Trade; Vendors, Street

COMPANY: REUTERS AMERICA INC (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (66%)

PERSON: Thomas J Lueck

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Times Square and 42nd Street (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



65 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 801 words

PERSON: Barber Benjamin Conable 

HEADLINE: Barber B. Conable, 81, Dies; Congressman and Bank Chief 

BYLINE:  By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Barber B. Conable Jr., an influential Republican congressman from western New York who as president of the World Bank steered it through a turbulent period of defaults and restructuring, died on Sunday at his winter home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 81 and lived in Alexander, in Genesee County. 
 The cause was complications of a staph infection, his family said. 
 Mr. Conable represented a largely rural district for 20 years, from 1965 to January 1985, rising to power and respect as the ranking Republican on the Ways and Means Committee. 
In the House, he became one of his party's most knowledgeable legislators in the field of taxation. He played a central role in shaping legislation on trade in 1974 and on capital gains and Social Security in 1977. 
During both the Ford and Carter administrations, he supported measures to lower personal income taxes and to step up depreciation allowances for businesses. 
But one of his most notable accomplishments had come earlier with the passage of the State and Local Fiscal Assistance Act of 1972. The legislation, a revenue-sharing concept benefiting lower levels of government, was opposed by leaders of both parties on the Ways and Means Committee. The Nixon administration strongly favored it, as did Mr. Conable's ally, Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York. In a campaign that lasted two years, Mr. Conable was able to marshal the urban contingent among the committee Democrats, get the bill through Ways and Means andsee it through to approval by Congress.
Over the course of his Congressional career he represented a district embracing the western part of the city of Rochester and Monroe County, along with Genesee, Wyoming, Orleans and Livingston Counties. He served 18 years on the Ways and Means Committee, 8 of them -- his final 8 in Congress -- as ranking minority leader. 
He also sat for lesser periods on the Joint Economic, Budget and Ethics committees. 
Mr. Conable's wide experience, however, left him with no specific expertise in banking, especially on an international level, or wide experience in management. Thus, it came as a surprise in 1986 when President Ronald Reagan named him president of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, commonly known as the World Bank. Born from the ashes of World War II, it customarily had an American in charge. 
For the Reagan administration, it was Mr. Conable's legislative skill on the domestic front that made him a formidable choice for the job. As an insider on Capitol Hill, he effectively lobbied a reluctant Congress to give the World Bank greater support for global development. 
With his influence deployed in Congress, the United States went along with the bank's other lender states in nearly doubling its available capital. At the same time, he was enough of an outsider at the bank to rein in its bureaucracy and move it from central planning toward market-oriented policies to relieve poverty around the world. 
He gave the bank new direction, and under his guidance its development division devised programs specifically aimed at benefiting the economic activities of women. It also opened a new department to ensure that environmental issues be considered in projects financed by the bank. 
Barber Benjamin Conable was born on Nov. 2, 1922, in Warsaw, in Wyoming County, and graduated from Cornell University in 1942. He served with the Marines in World War II, seeing action at Iwo Jima, and again during the Korean War, reaching the rank of colonel.
He graduated with honors from Cornell Law School in 1948. Later that year he began practicing law in Buffalo. After service in Korea, he practiced law with his father, Barber Benjamin Conable Sr., in Batavia. The younger Mr. Conable was elected to the State Senate in 1962 and to Congress in 1964. 
After he retired from the World Bank in 1991, he served on corporate and public boards. At his death, he was a member of advisory panels for the Securities and Exchange Commission and the United Nations-affiliated Commission on Global Governance; a member and former chairman of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution; and a member and former chairman of the executive committee of the National Committee on United States-China Relations. 
A Republican stalwart respected on both sides of the aisle, Mr. Conable made no secret of his sense of betrayal when the Watergate scandal brought down Richard Nixon, whose policies he had supported. In its aftermath, he did not answer the former president's letters or attend his funeral. 
Mr. Conable is survived by his wife of 51 years, Charlotte Williams Conable; three daughters, Anne Conable of Bennington, N.Y., Jane Schmieder of East Bethany, N.Y., and Emily Conable of Alexander; a son, Sam, of Sarasota; a brother, John, of Warsaw; and 11 grandchildren. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Barber B. Conable at his desk in Washington in 1981. (Photo by George Tames/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ETHICS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (74%); BUDGETS (74%); DEPRECIATION (69%); INCOME TAX (69%); APPROVALS (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (56%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

RONALD REAGAN (79%) Wolfgang Saxon

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (90%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



66 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1763 words

PERSON: Clark Kerr 

HEADLINE: Clark Kerr, Leading Public Educator and Former Head of California's Universities, Dies at 92 

BYLINE:  By GRACE HECHINGER

 BODY:
Clark Kerr, who created the blueprint for public higher education in the United States while president of the University of California system in the 1950's and 60's, died yesterday afternoon in El Cerrito, Calif. He was 92. 
 Although Mr. Kerr transformed the shape and the scope of public higher education, his contribution was partly eclipsed by the turbulent ending of his reign as chancellor of the Berkeley campus from 1952 to 1958 and as head of the full university from 1958 to 1967. His towering reputation as a leader of 20th-century American education was tarnished by his handling of the Free Speech Movement that swept the Berkeley campus in 1964. Caught in a crossfire from students on the left and politicians on the right, he was ousted in 1967 by the new governor, Ronald Reagan. 
 At the time he quipped, "I left the presidency just as I had entered it -- fired with enthusiasm." But he admitted to close friends that the dismissal hurt him deeply. 
Mr. Kerr remained a leading spokesman for higher education, especially known for his work as chairman and director of the Carnegie Commission on Higher Education. He is credited with originating the concept that every student should be entitled to a college education regardless of ability to pay. In 1972 Congress translated that idea into the Basic Educational Opportunity Act, which formed the basis for Pell Grants, the backbone of federal aid to needy students.
"Clark Kerr did for higher education what Henry Ford did for the automobile," said Arthur Levine, president of Teachers College, Columbia University. "He mass produced low-cost quality education and research potential for a nation that hungered deeply for both."
The chancellor of Berkeley, Robert M. Berdahl, said yesterday, "Clark Kerr is, without question, a legend in higher education."
As president of the University of California, Mr. Kerr created a multicampus public institution that became the model for the state universities across the nation. 
Under Mr. Kerr's plan, California created a three-tier system that became the largest and most admired in the nation; other states sought to emulate its structure and objectives. At the highest academic layer were campuses like Berkeley whose students came from the top 12.5 percent of the state's high school students. A second tier was the state colleges functioning as teaching institutions focusing primarily on undergraduate education, with some graduate courses; they enrolled a third of California students. Community colleges completed the system, offering two-year transfer and vocational programs open to every California high school graduate.
It was an ingenious mixture of populism and elitism. And the timing was right; American culture was ready for a state-supported, widely spread educational supermarket to serve many different needs.
Mr. Kerr's administration coincided with post-World War II optimism and the unprecedented growth of American higher education spurred by the G.I. Bill of Rights and later a concerned nation's response to the launching of Sputnik by the Soviet Union. 
Mr. Kerr coined the term "multiversity" in a series of lectures at Harvard and discussed it more broadly in his best-known book, "The Uses of the University." He believed that the university was a "prime instrument of national purpose." 
In the book, published in 1963, he wrote, "What the railroads did for the second half of the last century and the automobile for the first half of this century may be done for the second half of this century by the knowledge industry." 
The term "multiversity" accurately described the practices of higher education in mid-20th-century America. A vast techno-educational complex had largely replaced the classic visions of the 19th-century teaching college and the pure research university. No longer an ivory tower, the academy influenced and was influenced by trends and forces in the outside world.
Paradoxically, Mr. Kerr himself was to issue some of the most cogent warnings about giant multiversities. While maintaining that they were inevitable, he warned of the danger of "knowledge factories" whose neglect of students through large classes, the use of teaching assistants and the selection of faculty members based on their research expertise rather than instructional capacities could turn those students into an "alienated" class. 
With his well-known sense of humor, he said his job as a university president was "to provide sex for the students, football tickets for the alumni and parking for the faculty." But to a growing number of students in the 60's, Mr. Kerr had become the apostle of the multiversity, the champion of a dehumanized giant. and they resented his factory imagery.
Matters came to a boiling point in 1964 after the Berkeley administration barred all on-campus solicitation for political or civil rights demonstrations mounted off campus. Political activism at the university had begun to increase in the fall of 1964 after many of its leaders had worked in the civil rights movement over the summer. 
One group, the Free Speech Movement, staged organized demonstrations against the administration's decision that students would no longer be permitted to use a highly visible walkway at the entrance to the campus for their political activities.
The confrontation at first looked like many he had handled earlier. But this was a new generation of students facing a middle-aged generation of administrators who were used to watching and waiting until student rioters graduated. 
Mr. Kerr dismissed the Free Speech Movement as "a ritual of hackneyed complaints" and suggested that its leaders, many of whom were not Berkeley students, were rabble-rousers dominated by Communists. The protesters who took part in a sit-in inside the main administration building ranged from socialists to Goldwater Republicans.
The police arrested 800 of the demonstrators in a mass arrest. A week later, on Dec. 8, 1964, in the face of mounting protests, Mr. Kerr backed down and granted the students the right to unrestricted political protest on campus.
The events of 1964 in Berkeley led to almost a decade of student unrest across the country and around the world, gathering intensity when the protests moved beyond campus issues to the war in Vietnam and social problems.
Mr. Kerr's background might have seemed to prepare him to handle the Berkeley situation. Before his academic career, he had been a leading labor negotiator on the West Coast, and as chancellor at Berkeley, he was experienced in settling organizational disputes. He had also crusaded for social justice.
One explanation, offered by Garry Wills in "Certain Trumpets: The Nature of Leadership" was that Mr. Kerr was "unable or unwilling to get inside the minds of those who should have been his followers." 
"And because he had lost these followers, he was unable to put the unrest down -- which made him lose the regents and the legislature," Mr. Wills wrote.
In 1965, Mr. Kerr tendered his resignation after the regents ordered him to take punitive measures against the student rebels. He disapproved of the students' actions, but he objected to the interference of the regents.
The regents backed down for a time, but the campus situation remained unstable, and voters elected Mr. Reagan as governor two years later. Mr. Reagan had campaigned on a platform that included "cleaning up the mess in Berkeley." He cut the university budget by 10 percent and proposed charging tuition. Mr. Kerr's response was to freeze admissions temporarily.
He was dismissed as president at the Board of Regents' first meeting three weeks after Mr. Reagan's swearing-in, in 1967. 
Of his time at Berkeley and the University of California, Mr. Kerr told a reporter nearly 20 years later, "All that effort, all that passion, all that turmoil was mostly for naught."
Mr. Kerr revisited the era in his memoir, "The Gold and the Blue," published in two volumes in 2001 and 2003.
Clark Kerr was born in Stony Creek, Pa., on May 17, 1911, a time when fewer than 5 percent of American 18-year-olds went to college. His father, Samuel, an apple farmer, was the first Kerr to attend college; he spoke four languages.
Mr. Kerr attended a one-room school and went on to Swarthmore, graduating in 1932 with a Phi Beta Kappa key and three athletic letters.
He became a Quaker and worked with the American Friends Service Committee, spending summers traveling with the organization's peace caravans and learning the economic problems of the country in the 1930's. 
He received a master's degree from Stanford in 1933, studied at the London School of Economics, taught economics at Antioch and received a Ph.D. from Berkeley in 1939. In 1934, while at a student congress, he met a striking red-head named Catherine Spaulding. She passed him a note: "Are You a Communist?" He replied: "No." She wrote back: "I'm not either." They were married nine months later on Christmas Day.
He is survived by his wife; three children, Clark E. Kerr of Alamo, Calif.; Alexander (Sandy) Kerr of Mackay, Australia; and Caroline Kerr Gage of Orinda, Calif.; seven grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
Mr. Kerr began a career as a labor negotiator in the 1940's, becoming one of the busiest on the West Coast. He also served on fact-finding boards for several presidents. 
In 1945, Mr. Kerr came to Berkeley to head the Institute of Industrial Relations. He gained wider attention in 1949, when the state regents issued a mandate that all professors sign loyalty oaths or be fired. Mr. Kerr signed the oath himself, but as head of the faculty committee on tenure, he was a powerful advocate for those who did not sign. In 1952, largely because of the respect he gained by his stand, he became Berkeley's first chancellor.
In his tenure, Mr. Kerr eliminated vocational departments and used the money for academic research. Berkeley attracted students from all over the country. 
They came from the top of their classes. Berkeley doors were open to all who qualified; there was no tuition.
When he took over as president of the University of California system in 1958, it was a patchwork of specialized campuses. By the time he left, eight general campuses dotted the state from Davis to San Diego and enrollment had doubled, to 87,000. 
In 1969, Mr. Kerr was speaking at Indiana University when a radical student dashed in from a side door and hurled a pie at his face, scoring a direct hit. Mr. Kerr removed his glasses and wiped them with his handkerchief. "I'd like to ask for equal time," he said. The students gave him a standing ovation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Clark Kerr, at a 1964 meeting with University of California students at Berkeley's Greek Theater about campus political activity. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); GOVERNORS (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); EDUCATION LAW (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%) University of California

RONALD REAGAN (79%) Grace Hechinger

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003 



67 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
Charity Begins at Home, and You Live in the World

BYLINE:  By GAIL BUCKLEY; Gail Buckley is the author of "American Patriots: The Story of Blacks in the Military from the Revolution to Desert Storm."

 BODY:
RAMBAM'S LADDER
A Meditation on Generosity and Why It Is Necessary to Give
By Julie Salamon
183 pages. Workman. $18.95.
 What is Rambam's Ladder? And why is Julie Salamon writing about it? Rambam's Ladder, or the Ladder of Charity, is an eight-step program for giving, written in the 12th century by Rabbi Moses ben Maimon, a k a Rambam, better known as Maimonides, the physician-philosopher-scholar. Ms. Salamon, an arts reporter for The New York Times, is writing about Maimonides because like him she has an unapologetically utopian view of charity. 
 "Giving may begin as a way to make order out of chaos, and turn out to be a transformation," she writes, noting that Maimonides was concerned with the most "essential giving relationship, between the haves and have-nots" and that he was looking for "something larger than transference of wealth." He was looking for "the achievement of a just world."
Ms. Salamon, a former chairwoman of theBowery Residents' Committee, working with the homeless, subtitled her book "A Meditation on Generosity and Why It Is Necessary to Give." Yes, the world has changed since Maimonides, but "the desire to be good has survived," she says, "and so has the need to believe that we are righteous."
No idea was more important to Maimonides in his "obsessive pursuit of righteousness" than considering how to give with "compassion and common sense." His eight-step program has rungs of descending order, from Responsibility, meaning the gift of self-reliance (proverbially teaching a man to fish), down to Reluctance, which means giving grudgingly, whether giving to a panhandler or doling out corporate gifts that may appear large but are actually self-interested drops in the bucket. 
Ms. Salamon puts government giving in the reluctant column. Among the 22 richest nations giving overseas aid, the United States is "the smallest contributor by percentage, although largest in dollar amount." America "ties charitable giving to military and economic objectives," she writes, "and complains when its philanthropy does not achieve the desired results." 
Sept. 11, 2001, was the catalyst for Ms. Salamon's meditation. A child of Holocaust survivors, she was taught that giving was natural. Her father, the only doctor in a poor Appalachian community, treated whole classes of people without charge. As a lifelong volunteer, living one mile from the World Trade Center, she was surprised on 9/11 to find that she had "no urge to give blood, make sandwiches or search for the missing." Her only concern was maternal, for her children.
Out of her own (perfectly natural) reaction and a need to understand new dimensions of evil, she decided to re-examine the whole issue of altruism, talking to people about all degrees of giving and receiving. "We spend a lot of time thinking about why people are bad," she writes. "Just as perplexing, maybe more perplexing, is why they are good."
Her utopian views compelled her to prove the truth of Stephen Jay Gould's "Great Asymmetry" response to 9/11: "Every spectacular incident of evil will be balanced by 10,000 acts of kindness." Clearly there were many more than 10,000 acts of kindness in the wake of 9/11; but within a year blood supplies were dangerously low, and the economy was in "compassion fatigue." (Within two years, however, college-age children of 9/11 victims were benefiting from special scholarship funds.)
Ms. Salamon seeks to answer the charity conundrum: "How much to give and to whom?" What is reasonable? She is cheered that Maimonides offered assurance that "reasonableness is always complex." She cites a dictionary definition of charity as "love of God for humanity, or a love of one's fellow human beings" and of philanthropy as "a desire to help mankind." And she notes that charity responds to the "immediate need," while philanthropy "addresses the problem that causes the need."
An unlikely understanding of Rambam's Ladder came to Ms. Salamon in the form of a television documentary about Traudl Junge, Hitler's secretary, in which Junge recalled a postwar interview with a soldier who had been stationed in a concentration camp. Asked if he ever felt pity for the inmates, the soldier said: "Yes . . . but I had to overcome it. That was a sacrifice I had to make for the greater cause." Junge saw this as an example of the individual who has ceded his conscience to the state.
But Ms. Salamon wondered if it was possible "to make conscientiousness a national imperative, to make awareness and empathy the dutiful sacrifice for the greater cause." Her realistic answer: "Probably not." 
She goes on to note: "Goodness can't be willed into being. But it can be instilled." She saw the results of instilled goodness in her son's elementary school, where on 9/11 children watched from classroom windows as the towers fell. After the United States invasion of Afghanistan, the children raised money for an Afghan school. "For my son," she writes, "this wasn't an act of charity, but a logical transfer from richer to poorer that made far more sense to him than the violence that had upended the world."
Ladders, or steps, to heaven or perfection are a religious literary tradition, beginning with Jacob's ladder in Genesis. In utopian hands ladders to heaven become ladders to heaven on earth: a better world.
"Rambam's Ladder" is small in size but very humbling. It asks readers to judge themselves in the light of altruism. Experts agree that "most people are overly optimistic about themselves," Ms. Salamon writes. I agree, but with conscientious effort, after reading "Rambam's Ladder," I've already moved from Reluctance, giving begrudgingly, to Proportion, giving less to the poor than is proper, but doing so cheerfully.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 8, 2003

 CORRECTION:
The Books of The Times review on Wednesday, about "Rambam's Ladder" by Julie Salamon, misstated her position on the Bowery Residents' Committee, which works with the homeless. She is chairwoman, not a former chairwoman.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Julie Salamon (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); MEDITATION (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (77%); LITERATURE (76%); CORPORATE GIVING (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); PANHANDLING (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (61%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: BUCKLEY, GAIL; SALAMON, JULIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: RAMBAM'S LADDER (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



68 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: New Test for Colorectal Cancer 

 BODY:
It sounds too good to be true, and perhaps it is. Researchers announced this week that an X-ray screening technique had proved just as effective in detecting colorectal cancer as the widely dreaded colonoscopy, in which a long tube is inserted into the colon so a doctor can view its walls. An editorial in The New England Journal of Medicine suggested that the less invasive X-ray technique -- using a C.T. scanner and new software -- might ultimately be headed for "prime time." Yet there are reasons to go slow in registering our applause. 
 Colorectal cancer is one of the most preventable and curable of all cancers if one detects the precursor polyps or tumors early and cuts them out. The problem is that most Americans avoid the four currently recommended tests. The cheapest and least invasive is the fecal occult blood test, which looks for traces of blood in stool. Too many patients and doctors fail to keep at it year after year, and the test can miss polyps that are not bleeding. Sigmoidoscopy, in which a doctor looks through a flexible lighted tube, can be used to examine only about half of the colon, and barium enemas are not very effective at detecting small polyps and cancers. 
 That has left colonoscopy as the gold standard for screening, even though many patients dislike the preparations to cleanse the colon beforehand, the need for intravenous sedation, the loss of much of a workday and the requirement for a driver to take the patient home. There is also some risk of perforating the bowel or other damage. 
The new "virtual colonoscopy" would be safer and quicker and would not require sedation. But it would require the same bowel-cleaning preparation, the insertion of a rectal tube and the inflation of the colon. Most patients find it more uncomfortable than conventional colonoscopy, probably because they are not sedated. And should the new technique find a suspicious polyp, the patient would have to undergo conventional colonoscopy to remove it, a double dose of unpleasantness. Virtual colonoscopy will not prove attractive to everybody, but if its value is confirmed, it could entice some reluctant individuals to have the screening. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLORECTAL CANCER (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (90%); ENDOSCOPY (90%); CANCER (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%) CANCER; EDITORIALS; X-RAYS; COLON 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



69 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Beware 'Animal Spirits' 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE; E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
You cannot accuse The Times of throwing a wet blanket on good economic news.
 "Manufacturing at Highest Level in Two Decades" was yesterday's headline in the bolder Cheltenham type. 
 "Hiring Outlook Is Upbeat" was the subhead, offering hope to the unemployed, but striking horror into the hearts of the Schopenhauer Left, to whom gloom and doom had been political mother's milk. To those pessimists came the crusher: "Stocks at 18-Month Peak on Run of Positive Data -- Bush Optimistic." 
No wonder -- not 14 months ago, the Dow industrial index had plunged to 7,286; today we are some 2,600 points higher. The return of the five-digit Dow is just around the corner.
This past weekend, were you trying to find parking space at the factory-outlet centers and the malls? If so, yours was the holiday-season fever that cleans out inventories. You weren't profligate; you can claim to be patriotic. 
But such an urge to splurge at stores is not part of the post-automobile retailing revolution. Perhaps you are the new couch-potato consumer. This online and catalog shopping homebody makes mass retailers out of mom-and-pop enterprises that distribute goods through hitherto-unexplored channels. 
What we feel in malls and discover through Internet retail is the bursting-out of animal spirits. This 16th-century expression, rooted in the Latin for "the breath of life," was made famous by the economist John Maynard Keynes, who warned, "If the animal spirits are dimmed . . . enterprise will fade and die."
Evidently those spiritsare back, summoned from the vasty deep of the post-bubble recession. Only a month ago, cockeyed optimists dared to predict the most recent quarter's growth at 6 percent; we are now informed that the nation's output increased by over 8 percent. That puts my "ecstasy index" -- economic plus productivity growth -- at an astounding 14 percent, which, if sustained, would augur the mother of all booms.
That rate cannot be sustained. But even as we do half as well, the recent stagnation will be overcome. Jobs will be created and salaries increased, sales and profits will rise, and the tax revenues from that income and profit -- so often derogated by levelers as "obscene" -- will reduce the government deficit in the long run, as Lord Keynes said. (He also said, "In the long run, we are all dead," but that was before age retardation.) 
President Bush and his tax-cutters will claim credit for the turnaround, as will Alan Greenspan's interest-cutting Federal Reserve. Their policies to stimulate demand surely helped, as did deficit spending. But there was a more powerful force at work in pulling us out of the doldrums. Animal spirits again are our salvation. 
They have a downside. If the market keeps going up and the "wealth effect" further boosts consumer confidence, if economic figures continue to dance with Rosie Scenario, and if government mindlessly continues to stimulate with heavy domestic spending an economy that no longer needs stimulation -- then all bets on the coming boom are off.
We could count on Chairman Greenspan to tighten money and resuscitate "irrational exuberance" if growth hormones race through the body politic. But as we saw in the 90's, that would not be enough to avert boom-and-bust. 
Republicans with short memories and deep longings for re-election will be tempted to keep spending lavishly, thereby aggravating aggregate demand, inviting the return of inflation and a frantic rush of speculation.
Contrarians, arise! As consumers are consumed with buying DVD's over their cellphones, getting second mortgages to take advantage of stock tips and letting their invaluable animal spirits get the better of their judgment, it is for us to march around with sandwich boards that say "Repent -- The End Is Near."
If our counterintuition is heeded, the end of the coming prosperity will not be near. Having been sobered by the lesson of the late-90's bubble, we will not treat good times as a preamble to super-great times. Though a free economy will never abolish downturns -- which are as natural as breathing -- Americans can be ahead of the curve and in advance of the cycle. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (85%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); RETAILERS (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (71%); INTERNET RETAILING (71%); RECESSION (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); PRODUCTIVITY (62%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



70 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: A REGION INFLAMED: SHORTAGES; 
With All That Oil, Baghdad Wonders at Lengthy Gas Lines

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
Gasoline fuels fires. The lack of it can do the same.
 Ask Hadi Ali, 58, a civil engineer and irate car owner. He had been waiting an hour on a recent morning to fill his gas tank by the time his car finally crept up to the pumps. The line behind him was 110 cars long. 
 "We were expecting the American forces to come here and provide us with things, to make everything better," he said as he stared out the windshield of his maroon Peugeot sedan. "We are a rich country. We have oil. But nothing is happening."
For the past two weeks, motorists in this traffic-choked city have waited up to half a day just to fill their tanks, after several months of more modest lines. The problem, officials say, is mainly from guerrilla attacks on northern oil pipelines.
Some taxi drivers have spent alternate days getting gas rather than working. What is more, the high-grade gas prized by owners of imports like BMW's and Mercedes-Benzes suddenly disappeared from stations more than a week ago.
Over the summer, American soldiers were posted at gas stations to discourage a black market in gasoline. But now jobless men stand by the lines of cars and offer to sell gas from plastic jerrycans at huge markups -- sometimes five times the stations' rate. As Mr. Ali inched up to a big government-run gas station called Al Hurea, which means "freedom," a boy raced up to a Range Rover with a jerrycan and a funnel cut from a plastic water bottle.
As with so many things here, frustration over waits often turns to venomous feelings aimed at Iraq's foreign administration. In early August, riots broke out in the southern city of Basra over shortages of gasoline and electricity.
Asim Jihad, a spokesman for the Oil Ministry, said repeated bombings of the northern pipelines were the main cause of the current shortages. On Nov. 17, insurgents blew up a section of the pipeline between a refinery in the town of Bayji and the main refinery in Baghdad. 
Mr. Jihad added that the surge in car imports since tariffs were lifted after the American-led invasion -- 250,000 have flooded the country -- has also raised demand for gas. 
The gas pumps need electricity, and large sections of Baghdad lost electricity for almost three days two weeks ago, contributing to the problem. Multihour blackouts have remained frequent ever since. The power failures have also led many people to use gasoline-powered generators, so they siphon gas from their cars, worsening the shortage. 
Zubeid al-Zubeidy, the manager of Al Hurea, said the government usually sent four full tankers a day to his station, but that number fell to two or three on several days in the past week. "I'm nervous because of the people," he said, a handgun on his desk. "If I get 100 percent deliveries, then it's easy to provide gas. If not, then the people will come and take their anger out on me."
Dan Senor, a spokesman for the Coalition Provisional Authority, the American-led administration, said the run on gas was seasonal and perhaps worsened by consumers who buy fuel when they do not need it. "We've heard from some Iraqis that when they suspect there is going to be a shortage, there is a sort of hoarding that goes on," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAS STATIONS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); POWER FAILURES (88%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (75%); SEDANS (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (65%); RIOTS (50%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

PERSON: WONG, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) IRAQ; BAGHDAD (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



71 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: The Search for the Perfect Gift: Just a Click, Not a Drive, Away 

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
When someone types "Christmas light sets" into the Web search engine Google, the second listing, after a government recall notice, is the site for Aubuchon Hardware, a family-run chain of New England hardware stores. As a result, Aubuchon is now selling more light sets in California than in Massachusetts, its home state. 
 The best-selling item last week on Amazon.com's new specialty meat department was the "elevages magret duck breast" from Fossil Farms, a wild game farm in Lakeville, Pa. The duck beat out the top sirloin offered on the site by Omaha Steaks, the giant mail-order butcher. 
 Online shopping is expected to grow faster this holiday season than it has since the peak of the Internet frenzy in 2000, even as some analysts predict moderate growth in retail sales over all. And much of the growth is being driven by search engines like Google and other sites like Amazon and the online marketplace eBay, which are sending shoppers to tens of thousands of online stores, many of them small, independent operations. 
Shoppers understand that they cannot feel the softness of a cashmere sweater on a Web site, but the Internet offers speed, low prices, detailed product information and a way to avoid the holiday crush at the malls.
Improved search quality, pioneered by Google, has made search engines an easy and efficient way for people to find things online -- and for advertisers to find customers. At the same time, eBay, a haven for small businesses, has become the fastest-growing major shopping site, and much of Amazon's growth has come from serving as a middleman for independent retailers. 
"As a small business, I didn't have the funds to put into advertising and catalogs," said Lance Applebaum, Fossil's chief executive. "Amazon lets us show off on a worldwide basis."
 Since the company's duck, ostrich and buffalo products were included in Amazon's specialty food section, which opened last month, Fossil's sales to consumers have increased tenfold. 
 Online sales were the bright spot for retailing over the Thanksgiving weekend. Visa said charges for online purchases increased 47 percent in the week ended Sunday, compared with the week last year. Traditional retailers had only a 9 percent increase in spending on Visa cards. Indeed, for the week, online spending represented 7.4 percent of the $19.7 billion charged to Visa cards, up from 5.7 percent a year ago.
 This year, about 81 million people -- up from 73 million last year -- are expected to make online purchases, according to eMarketer, a firm that compiles Internet research. And a survey from Forrester Research suggests that women will outnumber men among online shoppers for the first time.
 "When we started, 70 percent of our customers were highly educated males," said Diego Piacentini, the senior vice president for retail and marketing at Amazon.com. "Now our customers are much more mainstream."
 The bursting of the dot-com bubble caused online shopping to become concentrated at Amazon.com and the online outposts of the big store chains like Wal-Mart and Best Buy. But even as that was happening, thousands of smaller businesses were experimenting with selling online. With no venture capital to blow through, they typically started with a few auctions on eBay or set up a small online store through Yahoo. Then many of them began tapping into the fastest-growing part of the Internet -- search engines, especially Google. 
 "Search engines are great because we have so many different products to offer," said William E. Aubuchon IV, who runs the Web site at Aubuchon Hardware, his family's chain of 140 New England hardware stores. 
 Aubuchon uses two strategies to have its name appear when people search for any of the 40,000 products it carries. With the help of iProspect, a firm that helps companies improve their visibility in search engines, it has tweaked the wording on its Web pages to make them show up closer to the top of search engine results. And it buys text advertisements, typically called sponsored listings, that appear next to the results. 
 "We're not a destination site, like Home Depot, but search engines help people find us when they are looking for something specific like Christmas light sets," Mr. Aubuchon said. "Instead of us chasing customers around, on search engines the customers chase us around." Helped by search marketing, Aubuchon will double its online sales this year, he said.
 The search engines are increasingly important to retailers because people are using them to find all sorts of things online, including what to buy.
 "This year, the way people use the Web is different," said Ken Seiff, chief executive of Bluefly.com, a discount clothing retail site that is increasing its search advertising. "When someone wants to know something, the first thing they think of is Google or Yahoo or MSN. It could be who is this person, what is that country, or where do I find a black cashmere sweater."
 Big retailers also started to show more interest in search engines last year. Many are shifting advertising dollars from portals like America Online to search engine advertising sold by Google and Overture Services, which is owned by Yahoo. The big retailers still have to bid for placement on each search term against much smaller companies. Advertisers pay only when someone clicks on their ads.
 "This retail season for Google is the first time we have seen very heavy spending from the large retailers," said Tim Armstrong, Google's vice president for advertising sales. 
 EBay has traditionally been dominated by small businesses and part-time entrepreneurs because it initially focused on auctions for collectibles and garage sale junk. But in recent years, the majority of the items sold on eBay have been standard consumer goods, and now half of those are new goods. The site has also created sale formats that allow immediate purchases at fixed prices, for those who would rather not wait out a weeklong auction. 
 This season, eBay is telling holiday gift buyers about these changes with a marketing campaign promoting the fixed-price sale of new products, especially electronics. For example, it ran a series of newspaper advertisements featuring new electronic items from a selection of its sellers, including Steve Weinberg, who uses eBay to sell Palm organizers from his home in El Dorado Hills, Calif. 
 "We're not selling last year's junk with broken knobs," Mr. Weinberg said. "We are selling new products, with manufacturers' warranties." 
 Mr. Weinberg's experience is like that of thousands of eBay sellers. At first he sold some things he had at home that he no longer wanted. Then he started to buy electronic products at stores when they were on sale and resold them at a profit online. By last year, he had found wholesale sources for consumer electronics and quit his day job as a teleconference systems salesman to devote himself to selling goods on eBay full time. 
"I truly believe I offer better and faster service than any of the big stores," he said.
 An increasing number of big retailers and manufacturers are also setting up shop on eBay, just as they have started to sell through Google. But for them, it is unfamiliar territory. Neither Google nor eBay gives discounts or other special treatment to large customers, advantages that big corporations have come to expect.
 For big companies, managing hundreds of auctions and bidding on ads for search keywords can be labor intensive. Still, as they learn about these new marketing channels, they may eat into the growth of smaller businesses.
 "Ultimately the Wal-Marts will take over online retail, just as they have in the physical world," said Carrie A. Johnson, a retailing analyst with Forrester Research. "The small guys are scrappy and savvy. They were the first ones to sell on eBay and on Google. But the big retailers will steal all the smart tactics from the smaller ones. They may not be better; they have deeper pockets."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Weinberg quit his job selling teleconference systems and now sells electronics on eBay from his home in El Dorado Hills, Calif. (Photo by Ken James for The New York Times)(pg. C4) Chart: "Lifted by the Web"Online shopping has been steadily rising . . . Graph tracks fourth quarter online sales from 1999 through projected 2003. . . . becoming increasingly important for some categories of products. Percentage of each product sold online, 2003 projections Computer software: 37%Computer hardware: 34Event tickets: 20Books: 15Small appliances: 14Music: 9Toys: 9Linens/home decor: 9Video games: 8Consumer electronics: 8 (Sources by U.S. Department of Commerce; eMarketer; Forrester Research)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEARCH ENGINES (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); WEB SITES (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (77%); MEATS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); THANKSGIVING (73%); COMPUTER GAMES (70%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (69%); EXECUTIVES (62%); HARDWARE STORES (58%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; SALES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CHRISTMAS; GIFTS; HOLIDAY TRADE 

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (95%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) EBAY (CO); GOOGLE INC; AMAZON.COM INC 

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (95%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); FORR (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



72 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: Attacks by Arabs On Jews in France Revive Old Fears 

BYLINE:  By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: GAGNY, France, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
The boys hide their skullcaps under baseball caps. The girls tuck their Star of David necklaces under their sweaters. Their school in this middle-class suburb east of Paris has been scorched by fire and fear, and those are the off-campus rules.
 Early one Saturday in November, unidentified vandalsset fire to the new two-story wing of the Merkaz Hatorah School for Orthodox Jews that was set to open as an elementary school in January. 
 The fire prompted President Jacques Chirac to call an emergency cabinet meeting and declare that "an attack on a Jew is an attack against France." 
It also intensified an agonizing debate over the definition and extent of anti-Semitism today in France, and indeed all of Europe, and forced the French government to redouble its efforts to combat it.
But even as they praise their government for acting swiftly, some French Jews, particularly working-class and middle-class Jews of North African origin, are convinced that France is not entirely safe for them. They say the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the American occupation of Iraq have morphed into a battleground for French Arab Muslims to attack Jews. "We Jews in France are paying the price for the events on the ground in the Middle East that are seen from morning to night here on satellite television," said Marc Aflalo, a printer who proudly wears a skullcap and whose three children go to Merkaz Hatorah, a private school of 800 elementary and high school students.
If a Jew goes into an Arab Muslim neighborhood, he says, "You have to carry an umbrella to protect yourself from the stones that fly."
This is not a revival of the old anti-Jewish hatred of the right that infused Europe before the Vatican reconciled with the Jews in the 1960's, but a playing out of the Arab-Israeli conflict in the streets and salons of France.
France is home to about 600,000 Jews -- the world's largest Jewish population except for those of Israel and the United States -- but also as many as 10 times that number of Muslims of Arab origin, the largest such population in Europe, many of them young, poor and unemployed.
Complicating matters, public opinion throughout Europe is broadly critical of Israeli policy toward the Palestinians. A recent public opinion poll of European Union countries found that most citizens believed that Israel was the greatest threat to world peace, followed by Iran, North Korea and the United States.
The poll itself added to the debate about anti-Semitism in Europe. But it is in France, where the burden of the wartime government in Vichy's collaboration with the Nazis still casts a shadow over the political landscape, that the debate is the shrillest and the charges of anti-Semitism the harshest.
Mindful of demographic realities and the strains of anti-Semitism in their country's past, French officials are struggling to denounce and punish acts of anti-Semitism without fueling racism toward France's ethnic Arab Muslim population.
Telling Parliament in November that the Middle East conflict "has entered our schools," Education Minister Luc Ferry said France was facing "a new form of anti-Semitism" that was "no longer an anti-Semitism of the extreme right," but one of "Islamic origin."
By contrast, Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy said in a television debate recently: "All those who explain the resurgence of anti-Semitism by the conflict in the Middle East say something that is false. Anti-Semitism existed before the existence of Israel."
For that reason he has called for a plan of affirmative action to help integrate Muslims into French society, a highly controversial idea in a country that officially does not identify its citizens according to race, religion or ethnicity.
Still, Mr. Sarkozy added that the horror of the Holocaust meant that anti-Semitism had to be treated differently than other forms of racism in Europe. That is a challenge when many of the young Arab Muslim youths who wander the streets have no understanding of the Holocaust. 
In a book called "The Lost Territories of the Republic" published last year, a group of French teachers said teaching of the Holocaust was impossible in some classes because students of Arab origin were so hostile toward the subject.
That us-against-them attitude is echoed by students at the school in Gagny, who have little regular exposure to Muslims except for the all-Muslim cleaning staff from countries like Mali and Senegal. 
The school is a sheltered place where boys and girls are taught separately, male administrators and teachers do not shake hands with women, and students learn that evolution is only one theory of creation.
"Outside of school, they call the boys in yarmulkes 'dirty Jew' and they tell us to go back to our country," said a 17-year-old student of Moroccan origin who identified herself only as Siona.
After the firebombing of the school on Nov. 15, the government set up a commission to investigate incidents and classified it as a hate crime under tough legislation passed unanimously by Parliament this year. Teachers have been told to combat anti-Semitism, and the police have stepped up surveillance of synagogues and Jewish schools. 
In Strasbourg a court sentenced six men in their early 20's to 18 months to three years in prison for setting off a homemade bomb in a Jewish cemetery last year. Yet even after the government initiative, swastikas were scrawled on tombs in a Jewish cemetery and on two Jewish-owned shops in Marseille.
Anti-Semitism, of course, existed before Muslims started immigrating to Europe and has continued at a low level for years despite laws all over the continent. But such incidents have not been limited to France.
Europe, broadly, has been struck in recent months by anti-Jewish acts, including arson at a synagogue near Manchester, England, in November, the defacing of headstones and the gate of a cemetery in Germany with Nazi slogans in October, a botched explosion of a vehicle loaded with gas canisters in front of a synagogue in Belgium in June and an attack on a Hasidic rabbi in Vienna as he walked home from prayers in May.
Indeed, an unpublished draft report prepared earlier this year for the European Union concluded that a wave of anti-Semitic acts had occurred since the Palestinian uprising started in 2000.
Underscoring the extreme sensitivity of the issue, the European Union group that commissioned the report said it had been poorly done and refused to release it, prompting charges among Jewish groups and the Berlin institute contracted to prepare it that the European Union was suppressing it.
Despite the findings, Interior Ministry figures show that physical and verbal attacks against Jews plummeted to 96 in the first 10 months of this year, compared with 184 during the comparable period last year. Justice Ministry investigations into alleged anti-Semitic offenses for the same periods fell from 129 to 29.
But the philosopher Alain Finkielkraut, author of "In the Name of the Other: Reflections on the Coming Anti-Semitism," for one, calls a statistical analysis of the problem an absurd way to measure it.
"There is a new, dangerous phenomenon of the Nazification of Israel that justifies hatred of Israel and therefore the Jews," he said.
One result has been a closing of ranks among some Jewish activists, which has made it more difficult for them to tolerate criticism of Israeli policies toward the Palestinians, polarizing the debate still further.
"Intellectuals who were not used to considering themselves Jewish are now doing so," said Olivier Nora, the publisher of the Editions Grasset et Fasquelle publishing house. "The tradition in the French Jewish community is to feel French first and Jewish second, but there is more and more pressure to define yourself and to take a position on Israel's policies. You're either in or you're out."
But Theo Klein, a lawyer and former head of the umbrella group of Jewish organizations known as the Representative Council of the Jewish Institutions of France, or CRIF, urged the Jews of France not to be carried away by emotion. He criticized the government's decision to define the school firebombing as an act of anti-Semitism in the absence of conclusive proof.
"The Jews are fully integrated into French society," he said. "They should reaffirm their rights as French citizens and not set themselves up as separate."
Indeed, when Israel's ambassador to France, Nissim Zvili, said after the school fire that French Jews were so "afraid of anti-Semitic attacks that many of them are thinking of emigrating," Roger Cukierman, the current head of CRIF, called the claim "really exaggerated" and an Israeli effort to attract immigrants.
Meanwhile, Jean-Marie Le Pen, the head of the far-right National Front, who has been accused by opponents of being anti-Semitic as well as racist against the influx of Muslim immigrants to France, said in a statement that the government had overreacted to the school fire. He called the new measures against anti-Semitism "laughable," adding: "There is no rise in anti-Semitism in France. There are the inevitable effects of an untamed immigration."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A policeman inspected the ruins of part of a Jewish school that was badly damaged by arson in Gagny, on the outskirts of Paris, last month. French Jews are increasingly voicing concern over their safety. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images); Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy shook hands with Jewish children as he visited the site of an attack on a Jewish school in Gagny last month. (Photo by Associated Press); In Gagny in early 2001, vandals covered a street sign with a sticker saying "Avenue Adolph Hitler." (Photo by Rabbi Moshe Lewin)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); RELIGION (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); IMMIGRATION (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ARSON (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (50%) JEWS; ANTI-SEMITISM; ISLAM; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ARSON; FIRES AND FIREFIGHTERS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PUBLIC OPINION; PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND MINORITIES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (55%); JACQUES CHIRAC (55%) ;SCIOLINO, ELAINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%) ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (98%); EUROPE (96%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) FRANCE; EUROPE; ISRAEL; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



73 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Australia Promoting Its Natural Gas in U.S. 

BYLINE:  By WAYNE ARNOLD 

 BODY:
Geoff Gallop, the state premier of Western Australia, is visiting the United States to help ChevronTexaco sell Australia's natural gas. Between meetings with oil executives in California and energy officials in Washington, he visited Baja California, Mexico, where ChevronTexaco hopes to build a terminal to receive liquefied natural gas shipped from a huge $7.9 billion gas project off the coast of Western Australia called Gorgon.
 That field plus a group of adjacent gas fields known collectively as Greater Gorgon, all operated by ChevronTexaco as part of a consortium it leads with Royal/Dutch Shell and Exxon Mobil, represent Australia's largest known gas reserve. With an estimated 40 trillion cubic feet, it is the equivalent of two-thirds of Canada's proven reserves. 
 The project is part of a new growth initiative by Australia's gas export industry, which hopes to take advantage of increased global demand. Most Australian gas exports to date have been to Japan, with almost none to the United States. But with a gas shortage looming in the United States, Australian gas concerns are betting they can ship gas competitively all the way across the Pacific Ocean to the West Coast. 
 ChevronTexaco and Australian officials emphasize Australia's advantages of security and stability, a message Mr. Gallop has used successfully to pitch Australian gas in China. "We can deliver for the Americans," Mr. Gallop said in a telephone interview from Perth, the capital of Western Australia, before departing for California with executives from Gorgon and other Australian natural resource companies. 
 Gas accounts for roughly a quarter of United States energy consumption, with most piped from domestic and Canadian fields. But as demand rises, new North American supplies are getting more expensive to drill. The National Petroleum Council, an industry body, warned in a report to the Energy Department in September that the country faced a gas shortage unless it developed new sources, including liquefied natural gas imports. 
 "Gorgon is a potential competitor for those new volumes," said Paul Oen, the North Dakotan who manages Gorgon for ChevronTexaco and its partners in Perth.
 Australia has only a fraction of the reserves of gas giants like Russia or Iran. Still, it has more gas than its 20 million people can use and is the world's fifth-largest gas exporter. "We're overrun with gas at the moment," said Ian Macfarlane, Australia's minister for industry, tourism and resources.
 Officials say the Gorgon project, with its estimated 2.5 billion Australian dollars ($1.8 billion) in annual revenue, would generate roughly 10,000 jobs, more than 17.5 billion Australian dollars in royalties for the federal government and 2 billion Australian dollars for Western Australia's economy over the life of the project. 
 In August, ChevronTexaco and Shell announced their intention to ship Gorgon's gas to Baja California by 2008. Shell has already received approvals to build a terminal there and ChevronTexaco hopes to do the same within the next six months. 
 The Gorgon field was discovered off Australia's northwest coast in 1981 but has long languished in the shadow of a nearby development, the North West Shelf, which has been exporting to Japan since 1989. In addition, its gas has little of the lucrative petroleum condensates often found with natural gas but is instead mixed with a relatively high proportion of carbon dioxide that must be removed at considerable expense.
 Shell has a 34 percent stake in North West Shelf's operator, Woodside Petroleum of Perth, and both Shell and ChevronTexaco hold direct stakes in North West Shelf. Gorgon gained momentum in late 2001 when Chevron's merger with Texaco gave it a controlling stake. ChevronTexaco has a four-sevenths interest, Shell has two-sevenths and Exxon Mobil one-seventh. 
 Abandoning plans to develop the fields as part of the North West Shelf and use North West's liquefaction plant on the Australian mainland, the Gorgon consortium decided to develop its fields alone.
 To cut costs, it decided to try to sell potential customers a stake. After failing to bring in a Korean investor, Gorgon teamed up with North West Shelf to woo China, with the help of Mr. Gallop and the Australian prime minister, John Howard. Last year, China chose North West Shelf over Qatar and Indonesia to supply it with 25 billion Australian dollars worth of gas over 25 years. And last month, the state-owned China National Offshore Oil Company signed an agreement outlining plans to sell Gorgon gas in China and to take an unspecified stake in the project.
 Gorgon still needs environmental approvals to build its liquefaction plant on land near the field, saying it is the only feasible site. But that land, Barrow Island, is a nature reserve. 
 Choosing Barrow was not only about saving steps; it was about disposing of Gorgon's carbon dioxide. ChevronTexaco has been drilling for oil on Barrow for nearly 40 years, filling reservoirs with water as it extracts crude. Gorgon cannot release the carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, but it could pump it into the reservoirs, trapping it inside.
 Environmentalists condemn the plan, saying that it will further disturb Barrow's ecology and will encourage the introduction of other gas-related industries. Western Australia's Environmental Protection Agency has advised against using Barrow. But in September Mr. Gallop gave Gorgon approval in principle to use the island, and last month, the state's Parliament passed legislation allowing Gorgon to do so. 
 If approvals and construction proceed as planned, Gorgon could begin shipping gas overseas in a few years. The trick will be to make sure it does so profitably.
 Big gas projects like Gorgon face a quandary: customers do not want to commit themselves until they are assured of supply, and developers do not want to build until they are assured of purchases. In Asia, this results in 20- to 30-year sales contracts. But the United States, with its vast pipeline network, has the world's largest spot market for gas. The only Australian gas sold in North America so far has been spare cargoes from North West Shelf. 
 Still, in what company officials say is an expression of their confidence, ChevronTexaco and Shell have signed memorandums of understanding to buy Gorgon gas for 20 years.
 "The partners in this project," Mr. Oen said, "have enough clout to create their own market opportunities in North America."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Natural gas from the Gorgon fields, in the Indian Ocean, is stored in these tanks on Barrow Island, closer to the coast of Western Australia. (Photo by Gorgon)(pg. W7) Map of Australia highlighting Gorgon gas fields: Natural gas from the Gorgon fields may be headed to the United States. (pg. W1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); OIL & GAS PLANT CONSTRUCTION (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); INTERVIEWS (69%); CONSUMPTION (68%) GAS (FUEL); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SHORTAGES 

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (90%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CHEVRONTEXACO CORP; ROYAL DUTCH/SHELL GROUP; EXXON MOBIL 

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (90%); RDSA (LSE) (84%); RDSA (AMS) (84%); RDS.B (NYSE) (84%); RDS.A (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (90%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (84%) SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES; 

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE; GALLOP, GEOFF 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERTH, AUSTRALIA (93%) WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); WEST USA (73%) AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (93%); CANADA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%) BAJA CALIFORNIA (MEXICO); JAPAN; AUSTRALIA

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



74 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Retreat a Bit as Investors Protect Earlier Gains

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Investors retreated modestly yesterday, collecting profits after a six-day advance in the Dow Jones industrials. Analysts called the pullback unsurprising, especially after the Dow's 116-point advance on Monday.
 The market also lacked the kind of galvanizing news that sent stocks surging in the previous session -- encouraging economic data and solid numbers from retailers about Thanksgiving weekend sales. 
 "After a run-up like we saw Monday, it's normal for people to say, 'I don't want to pay those prices, I'm going to pull back,"' said Barry Berman, head trader for Robert W. Baird & Company in Milwaukee. 
 According to preliminary calculations, the Dow closed down 45.41 points, or 0.5 percent, at 9,853.64. Over the previous six trading days, the blue chips gained 279.63 points. 
 The broader market gauges also closed lower. The Nasdaq composite index ended the day down 9.75 points, or 0.5 percent, at 1,980.07. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 3.50 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 1,066.62.
 Elsewhere, the dollar fell against the euro, which settled in New York at $1.2082 from $1.1976 on Monday. And crude oil for January delivery rose 83 cents, to $30.78 a barrel.
 Stocks rallied Monday after the Institute for Supply Management reported better-than-expected growth in the manufacturing sector and retailers said they had a relatively successful first weekend of the holiday shopping season. Many analysts were optimistic that the gains would hold despite the dip yesterday, and they noted that the end of the year is traditionally a time of strength.
 "I don't think investors are comfortable being on the sidelines at this point," said Richard E. Cripps, chief market strategist for Legg Mason of Baltimore. 
 Still, some investors remain skeptical about the strength of the recovery, and may be inclined to guard their gains closely.
 AT&T ended the day down 8 cents at $20.27 after Betsy Bernard stepped down as president to pursue other opportunities; the company named William J. Hannigan, chairman and chief executive of Sabre Holdings, to succeed her.
 PepsiCo declined 57 cents, to $48.14, after announcing it would cut 750 jobs and close a Frito-Lay plant in Louisville, Ky., as part of a plan to streamline its operations. The company reaffirmed its outlook through the end of the year and forecast double-digit growth in earnings per share for 2004.
 Vivendi Universal closed down 21 cents at $23.11; it reported third-quarter profits that beat expectations, but warned its end-of-year performance would not be as strong.
 Texas Instruments lost 7 cents, to close at $30.11, after selling its remaining stake in Micron Technology. Gains related to the sale were expected to raise Texas Instrument's fourth-quarter net income by $125 million. Micron declined 29 cents, to end the day at $12.76.
 Pharmacyclics rose $1.62, to $8.17, after regulators agreed to put the company's application for its cancer drug Xcytrin on a fast track toward approval. The drug has shown promise in treating cancer which has spread to the brain in patients suffering from non-small-cell lung cancer. 
 FAO fell 66 cents, to 24 cents. The company, the parent of the toy retailer F.A.O. Schwarz, plans to file for bankruptcy again this week, which would allow it to sell Schwarz and liquidate other business units. The company, which does not expect any recovery for common shareholders, is taking steps to delist its stock.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasuries Climb
(By Bloomberg News)
 Prices of Treasury securities rose yesterday as some investors said yields at the highest in three weeks already reflected the threat of faster inflation and a possible increase in the Federal Reserve's target interest rate. A late-day rally helped Treasuries avoid their fourth consecutive decline.
 Traders said the 10-year note's yield was nearing a level that had attracted buyers in October and November.
 "There's no imminent threat of inflation, which gives some support for Treasuries," said Christopher Sullivan, who oversees $2 billion in assets as chief investment officer at the United Nations Federal Credit Union in New York. "Selling in Treasuries was too heavy in the past couple of days."
 By late in the day, the price of the 10-year note rose 1/32 to 98 21/32; the note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.38 percent from 4.39 percent on Monday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week bills and 12-day cash management bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.925
High Rate: 0.935
Coupon Yield: 0.947
Low Rate: 0.915
Median Rate: 0.925
Total applied for: $49,159,404
Accepted: $23,150,104
Noncompetitive: $42,682

The four-week bills mature Jan. 2, 2004.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.968
Investment Rate: 0.976
High Rate: 0.975
Low Rate: 0.940
Median Rate: 0.960
Total applied for: $97,865,000
Accepted: $32,000,500
Noncompetitive: $0

The 12-day cash management bills mature Dec. 15.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. Graph tracks yields of selected Treasury securities from yesterday and one month ago. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); US DOLLAR (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); THANKSGIVING (71%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (67%); EURO (51%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE 

COMPANY: ROBERT W BAIRD & CO INC (70%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (67%); VIVENDI (61%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (56%); FRITO-LAY INC (56%); LEGG MASON INC (53%); PEPSICO INC (52%); SABRE HOLDINGS CORP (52%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (50%)

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (61%); VIV (BIT) (61%); MU (NASDAQ) (56%); LM (NYSE) (53%); PEP (NYSE) (52%); TXN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (70%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (61%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (61%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (61%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (56%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (52%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (52%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (56%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (72%); WISCONSIN, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



75 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Revived Economy Helped Lift Automakers' November Sales 

BYLINE:  By FARA WARNER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
Sales at General Motors, BMW and Honda's luxury division, Acura, all surged last month, largely because of the rebounding economy, automakers said Tuesday. DaimlerChrysler said its sales rose slightly in November from the month a year ago, while the Ford Motor Company's sales showed a decline.
 G.M. said its sales grew 22 percent in November, with truck sales up 30 percent and the Cadillac division up 43 percent. Honda reported record sales for Acura, a gain of 24.7 percent over last year. BMW said it had its best November sales ever; sales increased 6.4 percent over all, led by an 18 percent increase for the Mini. 
 The Chrysler Group, a division of DaimlerChrysler, reported a 3 percent increase in November sales and said in a conference call that it planned a year-end marketing and incentives push that could exceed $100 million.
 Ford was one of the few manufacturers reporting a decline last month, with sales off 2 percent. Ford's chief sales analyst, George Pipas, attributed the drop to a planned reduction in sales of Taurus sedans to rental car companies, intended to help increase trade-in values for Tauruses as well as for new models coming in the next six months. Ford had said it planned to replace the Taurus with a new family sedan called the 500 and a crossover vehicle called the Freestyle.
 Despite Ford's weak performance, Stephen G. Lyons, president of the Ford Division, said at a news briefing that an improving economy and new products, including the redesigned F-150 truck, would increase sales next year. "Clearly the economy is moving into high gear," he said. "It should be a sensational retail selling season this Christmas." 
 Over all, carmakers have rebounded strongly from a lackluster October, leading many executives to predict robust sales for December and for all of 2003. Several executives predicted that the industry would sell 16.6 million cars and light trucks this year, compared with 16.8 million in 2002. They forecast, however, that carmakers could sell at least 17 million in 2004 if the economy continues to rebound, adding jobs and raising incomes.
 Car sales are also growing outside the United States, said G.M.'s chief sales analyst, Paul Ballew. He said G.M. estimates that the industry may sell 58 million cars and light trucks worldwide this year, a record, and as many as 60 million in 2004. Much of the growth is coming in the booming Chinese market.
 Despite good news in the economy, however, the car industry still depends on incentives like rebates and low-interest loans to keep customers coming into showrooms. Such tactics are not likely to abate through the end of this year, car executives said.
 "We're going to have a powerful, hard message," Chrysler's vice president for sales, Gary Dilts, said during a conference call in describing his plans for an incentives and marketing push. He said the company would spend more than it did on its summer sales marketing campaign, which cost $100 million, but he declined to be more specific. 
 Such an emphasis on pricing by one manufacturer is likely to force others to follow, even though Mr. Ballew at G.M. said in a conference call that he believed that incentives might be flattening. "I do anticipate some relief on the pricing side," he said, noting that the rate of increase in incentives was slowing somewhat. 
 Apart from the incentives battle, companies are battling for sales in two of the most popular vehicle types, trucks and luxury cars. 
 Cadillac's strong performance was a surprise even to G.M. "It's a continuation of the momentum we've seen, but the levels are beyond even what we were expecting," Mr. Ballew said. He forecast that Cadillac would sell more than 200,000 cars and light trucks in 2003, the first time in a decade it will have exceeded that figure, led by its Escalade sport utility vehicle and its CTS sports sedan.
 Cadillac, however, will have to compete with BMW and a resurgent Acura. 
 Acura, which has struggled to find a place in the luxury category, had its best sales ever for a November, led by its MDX sport utility vehicle and a new TL midsize luxury sedan. 
 Honda also did well in the other hotly contested sector of the industry, trucks. Paced by the Element, Pilot and CR-V, Honda's light truck sales rose 9.4 percent last month. So far this year, Honda's light truck sales have risen 31.9 percent.
 Ford also reported strong sales of its redesigned F-150 pickup. Mr. Lyons said more expensive models like the Lariat and FX4 were accounting for more than 57 percent of the new truck's volume.
 Ford said it was hoping the new F-150 would return the truck to its historic best-selling status. At one time, Ford sold close to 900,000 F-150's a year. Once the truck is in full production, which Ford expects to happen next summer, Mr. Pipas said the company could sell "well over 800,000" a year.
 But it is becoming tougher for the Big Three, historically the best sellers in the truck market, to maintain their share of that market. Nissan, which will put its Titan full-size truck on sale this week, and Toyota are aggressively trying to win significant shares of the full-size truck market.
 The Toyota Motor Corporation's United States sales division posted a 12.7 percent increase in sales in November, with most of the gain coming from trucks and minivans. Sales of the popular Camry and Corolla sedans declined, although the company's executive vice president, James E. Press, said car sales were on track with Toyota's expectations.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Auto Sales in November" ANNUAL SELLING RATEFor cars and light trucks (includes minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickups) sold in the United States. Not seasonally adjusted. Graph tracks annual sales for light trucks and cars, measured in millions, since May 2002. INDUSTRY SALESFor vehicles sold in the United States. Cars2003: 557,7452002: 570,602CHANGE*: +1.7% Light trucks2003: 700,5752002: 632,554CHANGE*: +15.2 Total2003: 1,258,3202002: 1,203,156CHANGE*: +8.8 CAR SALESLeading U.S. sellers, ranked according to 2002 sales. G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 148,388CHANGE*: +12.3MARKET SHARE: 26.6% Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 79,613CHANGE*: -6.1MARKET SHARE: 14.3 ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 73,121CHANGE*: -1.3MARKET SHARE: 13.1 HondaNUMBER SOLD: 56,886CHANGE*: -2.0MARKET SHARE: 10.2 Daimler-ChryslerSNUMBER$ SOLD: 46,048CHANGE*: -1.9MARKET SHARE: 8.3 NissanNUMBER SOLD: 36,423CHANGE*: -5.3MARKET SHARE: 6.5 TOP-SELLING VEHICLESThe most popular vehicles and changes from a year earlier. Ford F-SeriesNUMBER SOLD: 64,737CHANGE: +14.2% Chevrolet SilveradoNUMBER SOLD: 47,599CHANGE: +21.8 Dodge RamNUMBER SOLD: 33,941CHANGE: +15.4 Toyota CamryNUMBER SOLD: 29,309CHANGE: -5.3 Honda AccordNUMBER SOLD: 27,843CHANGE: -3.7 Ford ExplorerNUMBER SOLD: 26,865CHANGE: -11.3 Toyota CorollaNUMBER SOLD: 20,751CHANGE: -4.5 Chevrolet TrailblazerNUMBER SOLD: 20,595CHANGE: +35.9 Jeep Gr. CherokeeNUMBER SOLD: 20,587CHANGE: +0.5 Honda CivicNUMBER SOLD: 18,965CHANGE: -10.5 Chevrolet CavalierNUMBER SOLD: 18,354CHANGE: +53.0 Ford FocusNUMBER SOLD: 16,866CHANGE: +0.6 LIGHT TRUCK SALESLeading U.S. sellers, ranked according to 2002 sales. Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 172,135CHANGE*: +5.2%MARKET SHARE: 24.6% G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 211,543CHANGE*: +30.5MARKET SHARE: 30.2 Daimler- ChryslerSNUMBER$ SOLD: 129,394CHANGE*: +4.0MARKET SHARE: 18.5 ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 74,610CHANGE*: +31.1MARKET SHARE: 10.7 HondaNUMBER SOLD: 39,673CHANGE*: +9.4MARKET SHARE: 5.7 NissanNUMBER SOLD: 27,531CHANGE*: +63.4MARKET SHARE: 3.9 *Based on average daily sales, including fleet sales, adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month. +Includes Volvo and Land Rover sales. SIncludes$ MercedesBenz sales. (Source by Wards AutoInfoBank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (92%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SEDANS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); SALES REBATES (79%); CONFERENCE CALLS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); FAMILY (73%); CHRISTMAS (63%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (52%) AUTOMOBILES; SALES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (95%); BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (91%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; BAYERISCHE MOTORENWERKE AG; HONDA MOTOR CO; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG; FORD MOTOR CO; TOYOTA MOTOR CO 

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (95%); HMC (NYSE) (95%); 7267 (TSE) (95%); BMW (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: WARNER, FARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



76 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Vehicle Sales Rose 8.8% In November From 2002
Sales at General Motors, BMW and Honda's luxury division, Acura, all surged last month, largely because of the rebounding economy, automakers said. Over all, sales of cars and light trucks rose 8.8 percent.
 Sales at Chrysler rose 3 percent. Ford, which was one of the few manufacturers posting a decline, said its sales were off 2 percent in November. PageC11. 

Strong Online Sales Expected
Online shopping is expected to grow faster this holiday season than it has since the peak of the Internet frenzy in 2000. Much of the sales growth is being driven by search engines like Google and by other sites like Amazon and the online marketplace eBay. A1.

FAO to File for Bankruptcy
FAO Inc., owner of the F.A.O. Schwarz toy stores, plans to file for bankruptcy protection a second time and break up the empire known not just for toys but also for a certain retail fantasy and style in selling them. Price wars with discounters, primarily Wal-Mart, have left FAO struggling for profits on the kinds of toys it specializes in. FAO said that it would immediately liquidate its 89 Zany Brainy stores and sell the leases. It is hoping to find buyers for its 53 F.A.O. Schwarz and The Right Start stores, but it would liquidate them if a sale is not completed by Dec. 15. C10.

Kerkorian Takes the Stand
Billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian, who is suing DaimlerChrysler for more than $1 billion in compensatory and punitive damages, testified that he never would have supported the deal creating DaimlerChrysler if it had not been portrayed as a "merger of equals." C2.

Disney Names a Board Member
John S. Chen, chief executive of Sybase, is joining the board of Walt Disney, bringing the total number of directors to 13, including Aylwin Lewis, who was elected in September. C15.

Vivendi Universal Reports a Profit
Vivendi Universal reported a third-quarter profit of 131 million euros ($158 million), compared with a loss of 1.23 billion euros a year earlier. World Business, Section W.

PepsiCo to Cut 750 Jobs
Shares of PepsiCo fell as the company announced that it would cut 750 jobs in its beverage and snack businesses, close a Frito-Lay plant in Kentucky and move the headquarters of its Tropicana unit to Chicago, which will become the hub for the company's juice and Gatorade business. The initiatives are expected to reduce earnings by 6 cents a share in the fourth quarter, but will be offset by 7 to 8 cents a share in gains from a tax settlement. C2.

Credit Lyonnais Talks Break Down
Discussions between the United States and France on an agreement to avoid criminal charges related to the Credit Lyonnais purchase of assets from a California insurance company have broken down. C4.

Testimony on Tyco Reimbursements
A former Tyco employee testified that the company reimbursed its former chief executive, L. Dennis Kozlowski, and its former chief financial officer, Mark H. Swartz, for their investment in a restaurant. C6.

Major Stock Gauges Fall Slightly
Investors took profits, sending stock gauges down. The Dow Jones industrial average dipped 45.41 points, to 9,853.64. The Nasdaq composite index fell 9.75 points, to 1,980.07, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 3.50 points, to 1,066.62. C11.

A Lakefront in Seattle Is Rebuilt
Vulcan, which is controlled by Microsoft's co-founder, Paul G. Allen, is completing 500,000 square feet of office, laboratory and apartment buildings in a lakefront district of downtown Seattle. Commercial Real Estate. C7.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,853.64 down 45.41Nasdaq composite -- 1,980.07 down 9.7510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.38% down 0.01The euro -- $1.2082 up 0.0106The dollar -- 108.78 yen down 0.63 Graph tracks the daily closing price of PepsiCo shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (90%); LAYOFFS (86%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TOYS & GAMES (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (73%); MERGERS (71%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (70%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (69%); SEARCH ENGINES (69%); LITIGATION (69%); DAMAGES (69%); BOARD CHANGES (68%); PRICE CUTTING (67%); SOFT DRINKS (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); EURO (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: F A O INC (83%); VIVENDI (65%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); GOOGLE INC (57%); ZANY BRAINY INC (55%); WALT DISNEY CO (53%); PEPSICO INC (52%); FRITO-LAY INC (51%); CREDIT LYONNAIS SA (50%)

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (65%); VIV (BIT) (65%); GM (NYSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); DIS (NYSE) (53%); PEP (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (83%); NAICS448130 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' CLOTHING STORES (83%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (83%); SIC5641 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' WEAR STORES (83%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (65%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (65%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (55%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (55%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (53%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (53%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



77 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Canada: Interest Rate Unchanged 

BYLINE:  By Bernard Simon (NYT) 

 BODY:
 The Bank of Canada left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 2.75 percent, citing expectations that the exceptional growth of the American economy will soon translate into higher Canadian exports and robust domestic growth. 
The decision was in line with expectations. Canada's growth rate has slowed since spring, and the bank held out the possibility of lowering interest rates if business and consumer spending failed to rebound, or if the recent surge in the Canadian dollar offset stronger demand for exports. Bernard Simon (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (84%); CURRENCIES (82%) CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF CANADA 

PERSON: SIMON, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



78 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Bush Is Urged To Maintain Import Tariffs For Steel 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON; Elizabeth Becker contributed reporting from Washington for this article. 

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
President Bush got a taste of the treacherous nature of trade politics on Tuesday, hearing last-ditch pleas from some of his own supporters not to proceed with plans to lift tariffs protecting the steel industry from international competition.
 What was supposed to be a quick trip here, to a town once proudly known as Steel City, turned instead into a series of low-key but high-stakes confrontations over the prospect that Mr. Bush will soon announce a decision to cut off the tariffs, potentially hurting steel makers, their employees and suppliers in Pennsylvania and other industrial states like West Virginia and Ohio that are closely divided politically. 
 One encounter was with Thomas J. Usher, the chairman and chief executive of the United States Steel Corporation, which has its headquarters here. Mr. Usher, who has been lobbying hard to keep the tariffs, is a major fund-raiser for Mr. Bush in Pennsylvania, and at a meeting between the president and a small group of top donors Mr. Usher raised the subject.
"I asked him point blank what was going on," Mr. Usher said later in a telephone interview. 
Mr. Bush listened attentively, saying that he was looking at various options and that he had not yet decided what to do, Mr. Usher said.
"He didn't indicate timing or which way he was leaning," Mr. Usher said. "He's a good poker player."
Scott McClellan, the White House press secretary, described the encounter in similar terms.
In another illustration of how local interests can trump ideology and party loyalty when it comes to trade, Mr. Bush also heard the case against lifting the tariffs from Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Specter, who like Mr. Bush is generally a supporter of free trade, flew to Pittsburgh from Washington with Mr. Bush on Air Force One, a symbol of the political backing the White House is providing the four-term senator as he prepares for what could be a tough re-election campaign next year. But while Mr. Specter took full advantage of the day's political theater, emerging from the plane waving for the television cameras alongside the president, he said he also used the trip to present Mr. Bush what he called "a whole series of strong reasons" why the tariffs should be left in place.
"We had a long ride," Mr. Specter told reporters afterward.
Mr. Bush imposed the tariffs in March 2002, saying they would remain for three years to give domestic steel companies a chance to consolidate and cut costs in the face of intense and unfair competition from abroad. But the move, which seemed to have the potential to help Mr. Bush win Pennsylvania -- which he lost to Al Gore in 2000 -- and hold onto Ohio and West Virginia, created at least as many economic and political problems as it solved.
Consumers of steel, like auto parts makers in Michigan, another populous state that is up for grabs in 2004, mounted a campaign to roll back the tariffs, saying they were raising costs and leading to job cuts. Spurred on by complaints from the European Union and countries from other regions, the World Trade Organization ruled against the United States on the issue, and said it would sanction retaliation in the form of tariffs against American goods from states with tremendous political value to the White House, including Florida. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%) STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; FINANCES; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES STEEL CORP 

TICKER: X (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (70%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ARLEN SPECTER (89%); AL GORE (59%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); USHER, THOMAS J; SPECTER, ARLEN (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) PITTSBURGH (PA)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



79 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Lieberman Proposes Paid Leave For Workers 

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL 

DATELINE: CONWAY, N.H, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
Seeking to appeal to parents caught between the pressures of work and family, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman is proposing a new payroll deduction to finance a program that would allow workers to take paid leave to care for themselves or family members, his advisers said.
 The proposal, which Mr. Lieberman, of Connecticut, plans to announce on Wednesday, would expand on the Family and Medical Leave Act, a hallmark of President Bill Clinton that guarantees employees up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave for family medical emergencies. 
 By offering a plan for paid leave, Mr. Lieberman, one of nine candidates seeking the Democratic presidential nomination, is taking a page from Mr. Clinton's efforts to stake out an agenda on family issues as a way to reach out to moderates.
"I'm presenting an agenda that values families, and makes it easier for parents to give children the values they want to give them," the senator said in an interview on Monday.
The new proposal is the centerpiece of a week in which Mr. Lieberman, campaigning in the crucial first-primary state, has been seeking to pitch issues toward families, offering ways to ease parents' financial burdens. The plan is politically risky because it involves some type of payroll deduction or tax at a time when President Bush is running hard on an antitax platform. 
Under the plan for paid leave, employees would have to contribute some part of their income to a fund that would finance leaves at half-salary for up to a month for workers needing time off to care for themselves or relatives. The payment would be capped at a certain level. Mr. Lieberman's aides said each state would be responsible for designing its own program.
The cost to each employee would be roughly $30 a year, said Mr. Lieberman's advisers, who outlined the proposal. Businesses with fewer than 50 employees would be exempt because of the potential disruption to small enterprises.
Karen Kornbluh, a former Clinton official who is director of the work and family program at the New America Foundation, a nonpartisan advocacy group, said Mr. Lieberman's proposal recognized that people were feeling pressure despite the improving economy.
"I've thought for a while that it's a politically rich issue that Clinton found a way to speak on," Ms. Kornbluh said, "and since the Family and Medical Leave Act there hasn't been much progress."
Business groups and many Republicans have traditionally opposed even unpaid leave -- the original bill was vetoed by President Bush's father -- and are unlikely to look favorably on Mr. Lieberman's idea for paid leave, even though the program would rely on employee contributions, not employers'.
Randel Johnson, a vice president at the United States Chamber of Commerce, said companies would have concerns about losing worker productivity.
In addition, Mr. Johnson said, the check on employee abuse of the family leave law was now that the leaves were unpaid. "But frankly when it's paid leave there's going to be an incentive to use it when they don't meet the requirements," he said. 
Under the current law, employees are eligible for up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave. Mr. Lieberman's advisers say that many eligible employees do not take it because they cannot afford to.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Joseph I. Lieberman took a tour yesterday at Kennett High School in Conway, N.H., with the school's principal, Jack Loynd. (Photo by Lloyd Jones/The Conway Daily Sun, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYEE LEAVE (94%); FAMILY LEAVE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (89%); SICK LEAVE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); VETO (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (62%) LABOR; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; FAMILY LEAVES 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (93%); BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) CARDWELL, DIANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW HAMPSHIRE

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



80 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: RUSSIA TO REJECT PACT ON CLIMATE, PUTIN AIDE SAYS 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN LEE MYERS and ANDREW C. REVKIN; Steven Lee Myers reported from Moscow and Andrew C. Revkin from New York. 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
A senior Kremlin official declared Tuesday that Russia would not ratify the international treaty requiring cuts in the emissions of gases linked to global warming, delivering what could be a fatal blow to years of diplomatic efforts.
 The official, Andrei N. Illarionov, said in remarks to reporters and in a subsequent interview that President Vladimir V. Putin had told a group of European businessmen on Tuesday that the treaty, known as the Kyoto Protocol, ran counter to Russia's national interests. 
 "We shall not ratify," said Mr. Illarionov, the senior Kremlin adviser on economic affairs and an outspoken critic of the treaty, apparently ending more than a year of uncertainty about Russia's position.
The treaty, completed in Kyoto, Japan, in 1997 after two years of intense diplomatic wrangling, would require major industrialized countries, as a group, to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping greenhouse gases. By 2012, the countries would have to reduce the gases by 5.2 percent from 1990 levels. 
While 120 countries have ratified the treaty, it can take effect only when approved by enough countries to account for 55 percent of 1990 emissions from the industrialized world. Without Russia or the United States, that threshold cannot be met. In 1990, the United States accounted for 36.1 percent of emissions, and Russia for 17.4 percent.
Russia signed the treaty in 1997, as the United States did under President Bill Clinton, and expressed support for it until about a year ago. The Bush administration rejected the pact, essentially giving Russia veto power over its enactment. 
Barring a reversal by Russia, the treaty appears all but dead, leaving uncertain the future of international cooperation on the question of global warming.
Russian officials had increasingly voiced concerns about the economic costs of curtailing such emissions, which come mainly from burning fossil fuels. They had also questioned whether the warming was caused by human activities and, even if it was, whether it posed any great risks.
But this was the first time a seemingly unequivocal statement rejecting the treaty has been made by a top official citing Mr. Putin. 
"A number of questions have been raised about the link between carbon dioxide and climate change, which do not appear convincing," Mr. Illarionov said in the interview. "And clearly it sets very serious brakes on economic growth which do not look justified." 
Echoing President Bush and many in Congress, Russia has also complained that major polluters like China and India are not bound by the treaty, giving them an unfair economic advantage. But mostly, experts say, Russia is bothered by its declining financial return from joining the treaty.
After the collapse of Soviet-era industry, Russia's emission of gases fell to an estimated 30 percent below 1990 levels. But its Kyoto target for 2012 was its 1990 levels -- meaning it already far exceeded its required reductions. Thus, Russia stood to gain financially from selling credits that would allow other countries to exceed the treaty's limits. Some major Russian industries lobbied for the protocol, seeing it as a way to use the credits to modernize aging plants.
Without the participation of the United States -- which would have been a major buyer of credits -- many officials here concluded that the potential economic gains were sharply reduced. With the Russian economy increasingly reliant on oil and gas production and exports, the officials concluded that the treaty's limits could become a drag on economic growth in the future. 
Some independent analysts agreed that there was now little economic incentive in the treaty for Russia. "Their stake has been transformed from tens of billions of dollars over five years to tens of millions, if that," said Prof. David G. Victor of Stanford University, an expert on the treaty.
The Russian statements reverberated on Tuesday in Milan, where hundreds of delegates from around the world were in the second day of a two-week meeting on the pact and an underlying 1992 climate treaty that contains no binding provisions.
Some participants said Russia's apparent retreat necessitated a re-appraisal of the Kyoto-style approach, which requires prompt emissions curbs in wealthy countries while excusing all developing countries from obligations.
But some environmentalists and European and United Nations officials said they remained hopeful that Mr. Illarionov's remarks did not reflect Russia's official position.
"This is just the latest statement in a long line of predictions by Illarionov which have failed to eventuate," said Aleksei Kokorin, the head of climate change programs in Russia for the World Wildlife Fund. "He opposed the Russian energy strategy, which was then adopted in May."
Jos Delbeke, who leads the climate change unit of the European Commission, noted that Russia stood to lose the chance for big new investments by Western European countries in improving its power plants, pipelines and other facilities as part of what are called joint implementation projects under the treaty.
"Our private sector is lining up for this," he said. "It seems against the interests of Russia not to go into these."
But it would be highly unusual for the government to have left Mr. Illarionov's remarks -- which were carried by the official Russian Information Agency, a state propaganda arm -- uncorrected if they were not representative of its position.
His statements brushed aside impassioned appeals from the United Nations and from countries, especially in Europe, that have embraced the protocol as the best way to reduce emissions that many scientists link to harmful climate change.
If Russia's rejection is indeed final, countries could proceed independently with projects to curb emissions or enter into new talks toward ways to spur international efforts, experts said. The European Union has said that, with or without the protocol, it will proceed in 2005 with a trading plan allowing member states to reach targets by investing in emissions-curbing projects in other states. But the overall effect would almost assuredly be to delay any significant new initiatives to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions.
Although the Russian statements appeared to align Russia with the American position on the treaty, Bush administration officials declined to comment Tuesday. Previously, administration officials have said they have not urged Russia to join in rejecting the pact. 
But senior administration officials have been using the new round of climate talks to strongly criticize the Kyoto treaty and promote their alternate vision of how to deal with climate change. In several statements in recent days, American officials said that the science pointing to risks remained murky and that the only way to solve the problem was with long-term research on new nonpolluting energy options.
Many climate experts have concluded that there is ample evidence that substantial increases in concentrations of the gases could disrupt ecosystems, storm patterns and agriculture in many parts of the world.
Despite having rejected the Kyoto Protocol, the administration sent more than 60 officials to Milan -- one of the largest American delegations ever to the climate-treaty talks -- to promote alternative approaches to curbing emissions growth.
The protocol is an outgrowth of the first international climate treaty, the 1992 Framework Convention on Climate Change, which committed industrialized nations to work voluntarily to avoid "dangerous" interference with the climate system, but never defined "dangerous."
After signers in 1995 recognized that emissions were continuing to grow, negotiations began toward a binding agreement, culminating in 1997 with the current protocol. The targets for individual countries varied depending on their contribution to the problem, and intensive bargaining was aimed at being sure no country was getting too great a competitive advantage.
As recently as last year, President Putin indicated Russia's willingness to ratify the accord. Since then, however, he and other officials have wavered and stalled, raising questions about whether the country stood to benefit from ratification, especially without the participation of the United States and without mandatory limits on developing countries.
At a climate conference in Moscow in September, Mr. Putin said Russia remained committed to addressing climate change, but he also shocked many conferees with a quip suggesting global warming could benefit a country hardened by its harsh winters. "We shall save on fur coats and other warm things," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 5, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Wednesday about Russia's likely rejection of the Kyoto treaty intended to curb global warming misidentified a cause of the warming. It is the emission of heat-trapping gases including carbon dioxide, not industrial toxic dust. The caption also referred incorrectly to 1990 data that were used to formulate the treaty. The data showed that Russia generated 17.4 percent of the heat-trapping gases released by industrialized countries, not 17.4 percent of the world's pollution. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vladimir V. Putin has raised questions about the Kyoto Protocol. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images); Nickel smelters in Norilsk, Siberia, were photographed on Sept. 27 emitting toxic dust, which is about a fourth of Russia's industrial pollution. In 1990 Russia accounted for 17.4 percent of the world's pollution. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. A12) Chart: "Meeting Goals for the Kyoto Protocol"TargetThe Kyoto Protocol can only take effect when ratified by enough countries to account for 55 percent of emissions by the world's industrialized countries. Each country is measured by: SHARE OF WORLD CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS, 1990 (Graph tracks emissions in percent) ActualTo date a goal of 44.2 percent of emissions has been met with 32 industrialized countries. What's NeededThree industrialized countries have not ratified the treaty. The United States, with emissions of 36.1 percent, has said it will not ratify. Australia has only 2.1 percent of emissions, not enough to meet the target.Russia has 17.4 percent of emissions. ConsequencesWithout Russia, the target will not be met and the treaty will not be ratified. (Sources by United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (95%); EMISSIONS (92%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); VETO (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); APPROVALS (67%) WEATHER; GLOBAL WARMING; KYOTO PROTOCOL; TREATIES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (59%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); REVKIN, ANDREW C; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); MYERS, STEVEN LEE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) KINKI, JAPAN (57%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%) RUSSIA; INDIA; CHINA 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



81 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Edwards Tries Personal Touch to Gain in Iowa 

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

DATELINE: COUNCIL BLUFFS, Iowa, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
Senator John Edwards of North Carolina barnstormed across Iowa on Tuesday at speeds topping 80 miles an hour, making eight stops in about 11 hours in a concerted effort to claim third place in the Democratic caucuses next month.
 On the third day of a five-day tour across the state, he raced from a pizza parlor in Corydon to a coffee shop in Glenwood, promising more jobs through "fair trade, not free trade" and making the kind of personal contact aides believe is vital to a strong showing in the Jan. 19 caucuses, the first presidential voting. 
 Seeking to sharpen his appeal here, Mr. Edwards has streamlined his stump speech, making almost all of it about the economy. 
Many Democrats see the race here as a contest between Howard Dean, the former governor of Vermont, and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri. Mr. Edwards's advisers said a third-place showing, along with a similar outcome in the New Hampshire primary on Jan. 27, would provide vital momentum going into the South Carolina primary on Feb. 2, a contest his aides said he must win.
While Mr. Edwards has broadcast several commercials here, his campaign is increasingly emphasizing personal appearances, on the theory that the more people see Mr. Edwards in their living rooms and coffee shops, the more they will be swayed.
With such a packed schedule -- including an hour or so in the middle of the day for a daily run -- Mr. Edwards did have some difficulties. He ran a half hour or more behind schedule at some stops on Tuesday; at one short stop at the Mount Ayr Public Library, he took only two questions.
It remains to be seen if he is getting through to voters. Mr. Edwards's support of the Iraq war is taking a toll, but several people who came to hear him said they admired his optimism.
Marian Killpack, an associate dean at Graceland University who heard Mr. Edwards speak there, said she would give him a second look, impressed with his focus on jobs. "People are looking to be captured by some vision," she said. "Dean has that, and he seems to have some of that, too." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); GOVERNORS (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (68%); IRAQ WAR (62%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004 

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (92%) EDWARDS, JOHN (SEN); ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) IOWA

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



82 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
In Seattle, aNew Life for a Once-Derelict Lakefront

BYLINE:  By HARRIET KING 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Nov. 27 

 BODY:
Final touches are being put on the interiors of some 500,000 square feet of office, laboratory and apartment buildings here that are to receive their first tenants in a few months. 
 They are the first new structures in what is eventually to be 10 million square feet of development in a rundown lakefront district long isolated by highways from the downtown area. 
 The developer is Paul G. Allen, the Microsoft co-founder whose Vulcan Inc. has spent more than $200 million to amass 53 acres, roughly 25 percent of the area, in parcels spread over 10 blocks and ranging from entire blocks to small holdings.
 The new construction is replacing 80-year-old factories, boarded-up warehouses, small stores and parking lots in the south Lake Union area. The area is a 15-minute walk from downtown, but it deteriorated because two freeways isolate it: Interstate 5 to the east and Highway 99 to the west. 
 Until the 1990's, the southern shoreline of the 6,718-acre lake to the north was unsightly, walled off from view and public use by rusting ships and factories. Today, the city is designing a small lakefront park in an area where restaurants will overlook marinas.
 The park is years away, but five new buildings being developed by Vulcan are filling up. "We did a big search on where to locate," said John J. King II, chief operating officer of Rosetta Inpharmatics, a biotechnology unit of Merck & Company. "South Lake Union is by far the best site. The key is that we are close to other research institutions for interaction." 
 Rosetta will move into a 133,000-square-foot structure that Vulcan is developing. In the spring, the Seattle Biomedical Research Institute and immunology and infectious disease researchers from Children's Hospital and Regional Medical Center will both move into a 112,000-square-foot complex that Vulcan is building a block away from Rosetta.
 Seattle already had concentrations of biotechnology research laboratories. The sprawling University of Washington Medical Center, a leader in infectious disease research, is north of the lake. The Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center is adjacent to Vulcan's holdings. 
 Two other biotechnology companies have their own projects under way. ZymoGenetics, which develops protein therapeutics to treat and prevent disease, moved to the Lake Union area in 1994 and is expanding its 200,000-square-foot research complex by 45,000 square feet. A mile west of the neighborhood along Puget Sound, the former Immunex, now owned by Amgen Inc., will consolidate offices and research labs scattered around the Seattle area into a new $650 million, 860,000-square-foot campus in January.
 Vulcan's biotech neighborhood will be anchored by the university's new medical campus. Its first 105,000 square feet are to open next fall, and a total of 800,000 square feet is planned by 2006. The campus will employ 12,000 when it is complete, increasing the medical center's total Seattle work force to 24,000, with a $2.2 billion payroll. This will rival Microsoft, based in Redmond, Wash., which employs 26,000 people locally.
 Mr. Allen focused on Lake Union in 1991 when plans were percolating for the Commons, a proposed $300 million, 74-acre park that would have stretched from downtown to Lake Union; 400 acres ringing the planned park were to be redeveloped as housing and offices. He lent the city $20 million to buy 10 acres for the park's initial parcels and planned to donate the money if the Commons were built. But voters rejected tax levies for the park plan, and by 1996 the Commons plan went under. 
 Many expected Mr. Allen to get rid of the property. Instead, consultants persuaded him to acquire land in Lake Union while it was cheap and develop a multiuse revitalization plan. 
 "For decades, south Lake Union was an underutilized backwater with the potential to be something more," Mr. Allen said in an interview. "At first blush the Commons outcome was not favorable. But what emerged is even more positive, an opportunity to create an economic focal point for the region." 
 With the October purchase of three acres across Valley Street from Lake Union, now occupied by a car dealership, Vulcan controls four blocks with water views, which will be the lake's gateway. The seller of the three-acre property was Mike Foley, who organized the battle that sank the Commons, saying he was outraged the city might seize his property for a low price and take prime commercial land off tax rolls. Mr. Allen paid him $21.3 million, or $157 a square foot. In 1995, land sold for $45 to $50 a square foot.
 Two-year sales data compiled by Trish McRae, a market research analyst with the Colliers International Seattle office, shows that land prices paid by Vulcan and others ranged from $110 to $280 a square foot depending on zoning, location and amenities. Vulcan and other developers, she said, "really want the land and are willing to pay whatever is necessary."
 Mr. Allen was previously known for building high-profile projects. In 2001 he invested $130 million of the $430 million cost of a stadium for his Seattle Seahawks football team; public funds were used for the balance of the stadium's cost. Vulcan was co-developer of a striking 292,000-square-foot office building, in which Mr. Allen has his office, across Fourth Avenue from the stadium. 
 His Experience Music Project, a $240 million museum inspired by the Seattle-born guitarist Jimi Hendrix, opened in 2000 across Highway 99 from his Lake Union property. Mr. Allen, who plays guitar, once had a recording studio on his Lake Union property and noted, "I wrote a whole bunch of songs there."
 In Portland, Ore., in 1995, Mr. Allen personally financed the $262 million construction of the Rose Garden, the home arena for his Portland Trailblazers basketball team.
 In 2001, when Vulcan's real estate arm had three employees, Mr. Allen hired Ada M. Healey, who managed a $3 billion real estate portfolio for Clarion Partners, part of ING, the giant Dutch financial services company, to create an asset investment strategy. "Vulcan had spent lots of time planning," Ms. Healey said. "I thought it was time to stop planning and start building."
 Vulcan now has 17 employees and plans to hire an equities portfolio manager, real estate finance director and social sector investment associate. In October, Vulcan hired Michael Kranda, a former president of Immunex, as director of its biotechnology venture investments. The company has mostly worked with development partners but in the future will go it alone more often, Ms. Healey said.
 Vulcan's primary focus is the Seattle area. It has restored the historic Union Station, now headquarters for the light rail agency Sound Transit; is conducting an environmental cleanup of 20 lakefront acres in suburban Renton, where no development plans have yet been announced; and owns a 575,000-square-foot business park in Issaquah. 
 Besides the three research centers that Vulcan is working on in south Lake Union, it has two other projects nearing completion in the neighborhood. One is an 88,000-square-foot office building that will become headquarters for Tommy Bahama, a clothing manufacturer and retailer. The other is the 160-unit Alcyone apartments for people earning $30,000 to $60,000 a year.
 Vulcan plans to start work in the summer on a 362,000-square-foot mixed-use office and residential development and next winter on a 550,000-square-foot complex with retail and residential components, as well as a luxury hotel.
 City officials strongly support Lake Union development and plan to invest in road improvements and additional parks. Tim Ceis, the deputy mayor, said a crucial component would be to run a streetcar line to Lake Union. "Bus service is bad there now," he said. "Some 20,000 jobs may occur, so we need a way to move people in and out."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ada M. Healey, a Vulcan executive, in front of a building that will soon house Rosetta Inpharmatics in the south Lake Union area of Seattle. (Photo by Doug Wilson for The New York Times) Map of Seattle, Washington highlighting South Lake Union and surrounding areas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); TEST LABORATORIES (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); LAKES (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (87%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (87%); CITY LIFE (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (74%); SHIPBUILDING (74%); ONCOLOGY (73%); IMMUNOLOGY (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); CANCER (69%); BIOMEDICINE (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (64%); PROTEIN BASED DRUGS (64%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (62%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; HOUSING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (83%); AMGEN INC (82%); VULCAN INC (72%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); ZYMOGENETICS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: VULCAN INC 

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (83%); MRK (NYSE) (83%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (82%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%) SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING; 

PERSON: PAUL ALLEN (71%) ALLEN, PAUL G; KING, HARRIET 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (98%) WASHINGTON, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) SEATTLE (WASH)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



83 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: British Universities Increasingly Look Abroad for Leadership 

BYLINE:  By KATE GALBRAITH

DATELINE: LONDON, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
When she left the University of California at Berkeley to become dean of the London Business School nearly two years ago, Laura D'Andrea Tyson was struck by her new colleagues' penchant for meetings.
 "There's a lot of minute-writing, and minute review," she said. 
 For David VandeLinde, arriving in Britain meant adopting a new terminology.
"Some of my colleagues in the states were surprised that I was taking the No. 2 job in a British university," recalled Mr. VandeLinde, the vice chancellor of the University of Warwick and former vice chancellor of the University of Bath. Few Americans realize that the vice chancellor is actually at the top of Britain's academic hierarchy, whereas the chancellor is essentially a figurehead. 
Adjusting to the quirks and foibles of a different system is the easy part of the job for the small but growing set of academic leaders in Britain who, like Ms. Tyson and Mr. VandeLinde, got their training in the United States.
Kings College London will get an American head next September, and in October, Alison Richard, formerly Yale's provost, became vice chancellor of the University of Cambridge, Britain's top university by most counts. Ms. Richard is British and holds her undergraduate degree from Cambridge. But she has spent the last 30 years at Yale, where she established a reputation for careful budget management -- good news for Cambridge, which predicts a deficit of $8.3 million for this academic year.
Today, more and more foreigners are securing the top administrative posts at Britain's best universities. The United States is not the only source of recruits; the future vice chancellor of the University of Oxford, John Hood, is from the University of Auckland, in New Zealand.
"Twenty years ago I think the attitude was probably, 'We want to have a domestic person,' " Mr. VandeLinde said. Now, British universities and their boards "are saying, 'O.K., fine, we'll look wherever we can find the talent.' "
Gillian Evans, a history professor at Cambridge, cites a "talent vacuum" for administrators in Britain, possibly compounded by the wish to bypass internal politics, which can be fierce at ancient institutions like Cambridge. "If they had appointed people from inside the U.K., we would all have known too much about them; we'd have read them in Who's Who," she says.
But most of all, experts say, the importing of top administrators may signal a growing sense of the need to keep pace with their global counterparts, especially in the United States.
Even institutions like Oxford and Cambridge are awakening to the fact that many Britons are ending up in highly paid academic posts across the Atlantic.
"British universities are starting to face competition, more than they have before," says Nicholas Barr, an economics professor at the London School of Economics and Political Science. "It would therefore not be surprising if they were to look for vice chancellors who have experience of competitive environments."
As British universities join the worldwide battle for talent, experience in fund-raising is increasingly a factor. American candidates are considered particularly savvy on this issue. 
"There does seem to be a sense in the U.K. that obviously the U.S. understands this magical world of fund-raising in some way and that the British institutions have to take strides to close the gap," said Ms. Tyson of London Business School, which is planning a capital campaign. The school also wants to burnish its image as an international school, she said, "so having a dean who was not British is a very important signal to send."
Britain's new administrators will need financial skills, because universities here may soon face what Mr. Barr calls their "biggest shake-up" in 40 years.
At issue is a policy proposal, backed by Tony Blair's Labor government, that would move the heavily state-subsidized universities closer to an American-style system as students pay more for their education. The proposal would allow universities (in England only, as opposed to Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland) to raise tuition fees for English students from their current limit of $1,900 to $5,000, starting in 2006. Legislation on fees is expected to be debated in Parliament in the coming months.
Students vigorously oppose the proposal, fearing that higher fees will increase their debt and deter applicants from poor families.
Others see increased fees as the universities' only recourse. Without it, Mr. Barr said, "we will be a declining industry under central planning, and Britain can kiss goodbye forever to having any pretense of world-class universities."
Separately, the government plans to raise spending on higher education in England from $12.6 billion in 2002-03 to nearly $16.7 billion in 2005-06.
The cash-flow problem at British universities is stark. Between 1989 and 2002, government spending per student fell 37 percent in real terms as the number of students increased by 94 percent, according to Universities UK, an association of university heads. Faculty-student ratios have worsened. The United States spent 2.7 percent of its gross national product on higher education in 2000; Britain spent 1 percent. 
Even London Business School, which sets its own M.B.A. fees, is a poor cousin to its American rivals. Its net assets, which include its endowment, total $84.6 million -- compared with the $215 million endowment of its partner and rival, Columbia Business School. British institutions, Ms. Tyson notes, face challenges like those of public universities in the United States: they are trying to make headway against the private universities, with their great fund-raising prowess.
Even if the proposal goes through and British universities adopt a more market-oriented financial structure, will the new crop of foreign administrators be able to reverse the slide? "Running a university in Britain is an appallingly difficult task," cautioned Mr. Barr of the London School of Economics, citing financial pressures.
Bringing Britain's strong-willed professors to heel will also be tough. "There is, in most universities, a suspicion amongst many of the faculty members about increasing levels of management," said Kenneth Edwards, a former vice chancellor of the University of Leicester and a Cambridge professor. "Therefore, a lot depends upon the individual, at how skilled they are at actually managing this change and keeping people on board."
That is especially true of Cambridge, where Ms. Richard has taken the helm at a time when the relationship between the administration and the faculty is strained.
"This is a small, very closely knit, highly politicized community of very clever and articulate people who are used to being able to say no to anything they like," says Ms. Evans, the history professor. Ms. Richard's first order of business, Ms. Evans says, will simply be getting faculty members to like and trust her. "It's like taming a wild animal."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alison Richard, a former provost at Yale, where she was known for smart budget management, is now the vice chancellor of the University of Cambridge. (Photo by Andrew Parsons) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); HISTORY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); BUDGETS (70%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (50%) Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%)

PERSON: Kate Galbraith

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED KINGDOM (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW ZEALAND (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



84 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: 2 Chinatown Stores Raided In Counterfeit-Goods Sweep 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WILSON

 BODY:
Not only was a raid in Chinatown yesterday timed to grab the attention of tourists and holiday shoppers, but it also involved enough fake Louis Vuitton clutch bags, bogus Kate Spade calfskin totes and faux Fendis to keep hundreds of low-rent supermodels happy through all 12 days of Christmas. 
 The raid on what the police called a counterfeit purse warehouse took place just after 1 p.m. at 415 Broadway, at Canal Street. The stylish shops were suddenly awash in blue vinyl windbreakers of four different law enforcement agencies. Several men and women scrambled from two stores, each one pursued and overtaken by a detective and led back to the corner. Tourists gaped. 
 Investigators said they seized more than $2 million worth of counterfeit goods, although that was an almost arbitrary number, based on the prices of the counterfeits, a number that can greatly vary from one back room or one customer to the next.
"We wanted to send a message" to sellers and buyers alike, said Capt. Kevin McGowan of the police division of the Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor, his teeth chattering in the cold wind. "It looks like this was the distribution center. We've got nine rooms; they were all secreted under there. We've got a lot of stuff to bring out." The items were to be loaded onto a tractor-trailer.
The counterfeit industry is a perennial target of law enforcement and Fortune 500 corporations alike. Private detectives on the Louis Vuitton payroll, for example, comb the bodegas and gift shops of Chinatown. The sellers use "watchers" with walkie-talkies to scan for undercover experts posing as customers, and alert the shops to close the metal gates. The shops at 415 Broadway seemed to be caught unaware yesterday, but others across the street quickly closed their gates.
"Yep," an officer said. "They're bagging up."
Last year, the International Chamber of Commerce said that counterfeiting accounted for an estimated 5 to 7 percent of global trade, and that it continues to grow. A 1994 study by the city estimated the cost of unpaid taxes on counterfeit goods to be $350 million.
Seven men and four women were detained and released yesterday in what the police described as a continuing investigation to determine whether the workers are in the country illegally and who is behind the large shipments of goods from overseas.
"I'm not saying these people are associated with terrorist organizations," Captain McGowan said, "but some counterfeit rings are. It's a great way to destroy our economy."
The police did not identify the Asian workers yesterday, interviewing them slowly through an interpreter.
Stairs beneath the two small showrooms led to twisting hallways and cramped rooms stacked with handbags wrapped in white tissue, from the large leatheresque bags marked with Gucci labels to the tubular Burberry Hobo purses in trademark plaid. Officers bagged enough Montblanc pens for a large school's graduation, and stacks of Gucci belts curled in coils, complete with their own signature boxes.
"Anything that has a trademark on it is bad," Kevin Dougherty, a private counterfeit expert and founder of Counter-Tech Investigations, said to several officers conducting an inventory. "The only thing you have to worry about is anything that doesn't have a name on it." Some of the items arrive in the country as generic, their labels stamped or sewn on later, he said.
Officers from the New York Police Department, the United States Labor Department, the New York State attorney general's office and the waterfront police participated in the raid.
"We'll find out if there are additional shipments, possibly on the high seas," said Chief Philip C. Spinelli of the Waterfront Commission. "Find out where the importers are, where the goods are manufactured overseas."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Knockoffs of designer watches were among the goods seized at 415 Broadway yesterday in a raid by four law enforcement agencies. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERFEITING (94%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); RETAILERS (78%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (78%); CHRISTMAS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); GLOBALIZATION (61%); SHIPMENTS (60%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Counterfeit Merchandise

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (94%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (94%); LVMH (BIT) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (94%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (94%)

PERSON: Michael Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City; Chinatown (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



85 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Hevesi Says Subway Fares Could Rise In Two Years 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority's financial problems could be much worse than projected by the agency, meaning another fare and toll increase may be needed in just two years, according to a report by the state comptroller's office. 
 The comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, called the report an early warning and urged lawmakers to devise a solution before commuters have to shoulder the burden for the transportation authority once again. 
 "We now know they're in deeper trouble than we thought they were in," he said yesterday. 
Already this year, subway and bus fares rose to $2 in an increase that was contested in court. Even with the 33 percent increase, the authority projected budget gaps of $840 million in 2005, $1.3 billion in 2006 and $1.5 billion in 2007 in a four-year financial plan released in late October. The yawning deficits are largely a result of interest payments on a mountain of debt incurred by the authority to pay for its current capital plan, which finances maintenance and expansion projects. 
Even so, transportation authority officials have said they have no plans for another fare increase until at least 2007. As a last resort, they said, they would consider reducing MetroCard discounts. Critics said that this would essentially be an increase.
But Mr. Hevesi said the situation could actually be more dire than previously thought. For its revenue projections from fares and tolls, he said, the authority arbitrarily added on 5 percent in 2005 and 2006 and 10 percent in 2007 to estimates made by its own agencies, like Metro-North and New York City Transit, based on economic projections. The authority also added a growing chunk of savings during those years but does not specify where they will come from, making them questionable, he added.
If these factors are eliminated, the projected gaps could total $1.1 billion in 2005, $1.7 billion in 2006 and $2.1 billion in 2007, the report said.
Even if the MetroCard discounts are eliminated, Mr. Hevesi said, the transportation authority will still face a gap of at least $840 million, requiring aid from the state or the city in the form of a tax increase, or a fare and toll increase in 2005.
"The people concerned have to start thinking about it," he said.
A crucial factor in the crisis faced by the transportation authority, said Mr. Hevesi, is Gov. George E. Pataki's decision in 2000, in the face of the state's own financial difficulties, to reduce the state's contribution to the transportation authority's capital program from about $800 million a year -- or 7 percent -- to nothing. As a direct result, the authority has had to borrow larger and larger sums of money. Interest payment on debt is expected to double from $797.2 million in 2003 to $1.7 billion in 2007.
"It's the state going out of the business of supporting this transit system," Mr. Hevesi said. "And there's no way this system can deal with its problems without government involvement." 
A call yesterday to a spokeswoman for the governor was not returned.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The No. 7 train moving through Queens yesterday. Alan G. Hevesi, the state comptroller, said subway fares could rise within two years as a result of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's financial problems. (Photo by Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); TAX LAW (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%) Transit Systems; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Subways; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: Michael Luo; Alan G Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



86 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
An Illness Alters a Family's Life Forever

BYLINE:  By ALEXIS REHRMANN

 BODY:
Alfred Ferrer, 9, is a little like a one-man band, heavy on the percussion. He smacks his thighs, stomach, cheeks and head, producing a steady beat. He shakes a nearly empty soda bottle, adding a sloshing counterpoint. His vocals are delicate: gulps of air, fluttering lips and sing-song calls, punctuated with shouts.
 The effect is unnerving. "It gets me panicked," says his mother, Ana Ferrer. 
 In his first four months, Alfred was "a regular baby; he used to smile all the time," said Ms. Ferrer, 26. But all that changed with the onset of a 105-degree fever, a frantic rush to the hospital, and a diagnosis of infant meningitis. 
Alfred survived, but now faces many more illnesses and obstacles. He is autistic, mentally retarded, hypoglycemic, asthmatic and suffers from two neurological disorders, epilepsy and Tourette's syndrome.
Alfred's most extreme symptoms may be caused by his autism. "Autistic kids make a lot of noise," Ms. Ferrer said.
Alfred lives in a world of sound and rhythm. He likes the sound of jangling keys and the clanking of loose change at the bottom of a plastic jug. He is intent on a keyboard that plays tinny Christmas songs. "This is him," Ms. Ferrer says. "Don't touch him, don't look at him, and he's happy."
And yet there are moments of communication. Behind all the symptoms, Alfred understands a lot. "He knows certain things," his mother says. When she shows him a diaper, she says, "he understands and lays down."
Alfred sets the pace in this home. The small, two-bedroom apartment is dim: the bulbs have been unscrewed from the overhead lights because Alfred likes to turn them on and off.
Joshua Martinez, 5, is Alfred's younger brother. They share a slim build and dark brown eyes. But while Alfred makes a racket, Joshua chats. He explains a picture he drew. He drags out a family photo album and questions his mother about the relatives in its pages. He cuddles.
Joshua has a hard time understanding his brother. "Alfred doesn't give back your toys," he says. "And he makes that noise."
Alfred's soundtrack suggests a home on the verge of chaos. In reality, though, Ms. Ferrer's family is much more stable then it was.
Three years ago, Ms. Ferrer and her two sons found themselves homeless. After their Brooklyn apartment was robbed, Ms. Ferrer said, she felt it was no longer safe to live there. So they left, only to spend several months renting a room from a friend, and then sleeping in motels.
They found temporary beds at Thorpe Family Residence, a transitional shelter in the Bronx affiliated with Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York. Catholic Charities is one of seven charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Fund.
InApril 2001, on the strength of a recommendation from the shelter, Ms. Ferrer and her family got an apartment at Park Avenue Thorpe, which provides permanent housing for homeless mothers and their children and is run by Thorpe Family Residence.
Alfred's school situation has also changed. He had been attending a Bronx public school, where Ms. Ferrer said she was pressured to institutionalize her son. She refused. "He was little," she said. "Just because they don't want to deal with him doesn't mean I'm going to give up on him."
It took four people -- a mother, a lawyer, a social worker and a nun -- to get Alfred enrolled at Hawthorne Country Day School, a private school in Westchester County. "It was incredible to see what she had to go through to get that kid in the right school," said Sister Barbara Lenniger, executive director of Thorpe Family Residence, who was instrumental in the school arrangements. "I can't imagine someone doing that on their own."
At the school, where he started in the spring of 2002, Alfred receives physical, speech and occupational therapy, and Ms. Ferrer sees improvement. "He says no, he says yes, he's not as self-abusive as he was before," she said.
But Alfred's need for constant supervision means there are still challenges ahead. Though she volunteers regularly in the Thorpe office, Ms. Ferrer is unable to work full time because she needs to be home when Alfred returns from school at 3 p.m.
Ms. Ferrer receives $218 monthly in welfare benefits and a $576 disability payment for Alfred from Social Security. But every two or three months her case is closed because of her unemployment, she said, adding that she takes Alfred along on the regular trips to reapply, to demonstrate why she is not able to work.
Nelson Garcia, Ms. Ferrer's current welfare caseworker, said that he did not know of her past experiences, but that her case "opened up on time when she came to my attention." Ms. Ferrer is grateful for that, but worries that the situation could easily change.
Ms. Ferrer is looking for an after-school program for Alfred, which she hopes will enable her to work.
Meanwhile, Joshua, sunny and bright at home, is acting out at school, "hitting and talking back, not staying still," Ms. Ferrer says.
She has visited Joshua's classroom to help keep him on track, and he will be evaluated for hyperactivity disorders.
Ms. Ferrer said she hoped to spend more time with Joshua if Saturday child care for Alfred could be arranged.
Amid all these uncertainties, the family did get some good news this Thanksgiving. Catholic Charities is providing $200 through the Neediest Cases Fund to buy a communication device for Alfred. The computerized device has images accompanied by a voice recording. If Alfred points to an image of a cup, the computer says "drink." Ms. Ferrer looks forward to teaching Alfred to communicate by using the device so "he wouldn't have to scream that much."
"Oh," she says affectionately to her son during a lull in his whirlwind of noise. "I hate that. You open your mouth to say something, but you don't say nothing."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $2,728,421.60
Recorded Monday: 10,045.00

Total: $2,738,466.60
Last year to date: $2,896,637.61

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ana Ferrer with her sons, Joshua Martinez, 5, left, and Alfred Ferrer, 9. Meningitis in infancy left Alfred retarded, autistic and epileptic. (Photo by Barbara Alper for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); AUTISM (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); CHARITIES (84%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (83%); MUSIC (78%); EPILEPSY (74%); NEUROSCIENCE (74%); MENTAL RETARDATION (73%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (72%); MENINGITIS (69%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (67%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (63%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (61%); RELIGION (61%) 

ORGANIZATION: New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

PERSON: Alexis Rehrmann; Ana Ferrer; Alfred Ferrer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



87 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns; 
In School and Out, Lessons About Becoming American

BYLINE:  By RICHARD LEZIN JONES

DATELINE: SOUTHAMPTON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
HIS class numbered all of eight pupils, so when L. Joachin Mendez's fellow teachers asked him if there was a real need to continue offering English as a Second Language courses in Southampton's schools he could only shrug.
 "The question was, 'Is this population here to stay?' " said Mr. Mendez, a teacher at Southampton High School, recalling a conversation he had a dozen years ago about the town's emerging Latino immigrant population. "I said, 'I just don't know, I just don't know.' " 
 He and everyone else soon found out. Immigrants of all stripes, particularly Latinos, continued to stream toward the string of tony communities on Long Island's South Fork, drawn by the pull of steady work in service industries -- laboring in the region's vineyards, doing landscaping jobs, filling in on construction sites. 
In all, according to census figures, Suffolk County's Latino population nearly doubled from 1990 to 2000. The increase is even more pronounced in Mr. Mendez's English classes: he now teaches about 50 students.
"People joke that I must have been out recruiting," said Mr. Mendez, 46, who is of Dominican descent.
With the growing population has come some inevitable frictions, both in school and outside. And Mr. Mendez is trying to ease the transition for recent arrivals and established residents, both at the school as a teacher and guidance counselor and in the community at large as a member of Organizacion Latino Americana, an advocacy group for Latin immigrants.
The latest flash point here is the creation of a so-called hiring hall, a place where immigrants, mostly Latino men, can be hired as day laborers.
A grassy lot near a local 7-Eleven convenience store is already serving as an informal spot where laborers gather early each morning to be selected for work. And while almost no one disputes the need for the workers, some here argue that the creation of a formal hiring hall might serve as a tacit endorsement of those immigrants who are in the United States illegally.
This fall, as elections neared in communities all along the South Fork, hiring halls were hotly debated. Those who opposed the halls cited concerns about illegal immigrants. Advocates of the halls, like Mr. Mendez, contended that they were an effective way to manage an influx of immigrants -- legal and not -- who would continue to flow to the region looking for work.
WHILE the debate raged intensely, many communities here put off any formal action on the hiring halls. But now, nearly a month after the elections, Mr. Mendez and others here hope that the climate has cooled enough for them to renew a discussion between immigrants and established residents about the creation of the halls with an eye toward more genuine dialogue and less rhetoric.
"The hiring hall is just a practical solution," Mr. Mendez said. "You have guys who are being paid $100 a day and they're working 14 hours straight and moving this mountain of earth. They're serving the economy of Southampton."
As Mr. Mendez drove through town yesterday, he described how the laborers are drawn from small towns in their native countries by accounts from other immigrants who have already come to the South Fork and sent back reports of opportunity, jobs, money.
"It's a combination of fate, luck and material conditions," he said of the forces that draw immigrants to the region. "The allure is strong." 
Mr. Mendez says he is hopeful that town officials and advocates for Latinos can find a middle ground on the issue. For their part, members of the town's council say that the hiring hall issue is a priority for officials. 
"The door is definitely not slammed shut," said Dennis A. Suskind, a councilman, referring to the hiring hall debate. "It's a complicated question because of the undocumented population."
On one level, Mr. Mendez said, what Latinos here and other immigrants around the region are facing from established groups is simply the 21st century's echo of similar conflicts experienced by immigrant groups in the past.
But beyond an immigration dispute, Mr. Mendez said, the conflict speaks to something more basic. "This is a reflection of our humanity," he said. "And how we deal with people who are less fortunate than we are." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); CENSUS (72%); REFUGEES (71%); CONVENIENCE STORES (62%) Immigration and Refugees; Latin-Americans; Illegal Aliens; Labor

COMPANY: 7-ELEVEN INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (53%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (53%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (53%)

PERSON: Richard Lezin Jones

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Southampton (NY)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



88 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: They'll Take Manhattan: Republicans Drop Ship Idea 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL SLACKMAN

 BODY:
Representative Tom DeLay of Texas will not go ahead with his plan to use a luxury cruise liner as a floating entertainment center for members of Congress, lobbyists and contributors during the Republican National Convention next summer, an aide said yesterday. 
 Mr. DeLay, the House majority leader, had insisted earlier this week that he was still planning to use the 2,224-passenger Norwegian Dawn in the Hudson to accommodate Republicans who will be in the city for the event, from Aug. 30 to Sept. 2. 
As criticism mounted, particularly from Republicans concerned that they would appear elitist if they stayed on a ship away from the heart of the city and its people, he backed off, saying it was not worth the fight. 
A spokesman said, "Tom DeLay fights for what he believes in, but where we have an event at the convention is not something that he particularly cares about." The aide, Mr. DeLay's communications director, Stuart Roy, added: "He will stand and fight on principle for things he believes in, like Medicare, things that matter. Whether you have an event on a boat is irrelevant."
The decision may put to rest a conflict that had threatened to overshadow the very purpose of the convention, the renomination of President Bush. However, Democrats as well as Republicans also suggested that more troubles could lie ahead, since so many people said the dispute left them angry and distrustful.
A Republican strategist close to Mr. DeLay who spoke on the condition he not be identified said, "A lot of disingenuous people made a mountain out of a molehill, and DeLay just decided to let the moles win." 
In New York, there was a sense of bewilderment among Democrats and Republicans that Mr. DeLay let the dispute go on as long as he did, and that he seemed not to understand how it would appear if the Republican delegation and their guests slept, dined and relaxed on a cruise ship instead of in a hotel.
There was such a gap in perception that late yesterday, some Republicans in Washington who supported the cruise liner idea were still saying that it would not have taken much money away from the city and that perhaps there are some Republican members of Congress who want to take their families to the convention but do not want them to stay in Manhattan, a point that offended many New Yorkers.
The cruise liner has 10 restaurants, 14 bars and lounges, and a 1,000-seat theater. Docked here, it would draw millions of dollars in business away from city shops, restaurants, hotels and theaters, critics said. Representatives of the hotel industry estimated that it would take $40 million in revenue away from hotels alone.
The economic arguments did not seem to persuade Mr. DeLay. The majority leader at first thought the criticism of the cruise ship plan was just the result of bad blood between him and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who had singled him out in October as a lawmaker who has been bad for New York and therefore not worthy of campaign contributors' checks, according to people familiar with the events that led to his decision to back down. 
He was persuaded to change his mind, they said, as William D. Harris, the convention chairman, and other Republican strategists worked on Mr. DeLay's staff to press him to abandon the idea.
Gov. George E. Pataki, the three-term Republican who recently organized a fund-raiser for Mr. DeLay in Manhattan, did not ask him to drop the plan but instead asked Republicans in the state delegation to ask him to back off, according to the governor's office. 
Mr. Bloomberg, too, had been careful in wording his responses to the DeLay plan. But on Monday, the mayor, who also was under increasing pressure from local labor unions and political leaders in New York, telephoned Mr. DeLay. He and Mr. DeLay then spoke by telephone about 4 p.m. yesterday, and shortly thereafter Mr. DeLay said through a spokesman that he would not go through with his plan.
Mr. Bloomberg then called Colin Veitch, the president and chief executive of Norwegian Cruise Lines, which owns the ship, to try to avoid hard feelings with a company that docks a cruise liner here year-round and brings a lot of business to the city.
The company issued a statement late yesterday saying that it was not going ahead with the convetion plan with the proposal because it no longer made economic sense, although the statement was prepared after Mr. DeLay had said he was ending the fight.
Mr. Harris, the convention chairman, did not return a call to his Washington office, and the Republican National Committee press office also did not return a call for comment. 
Mr. DeLay, along with Representative Vito Fossella, Republican of Staten Island, first presented this idea to the Republican delegation in early November. Mr. DeLay would not pay for the ship but was the driving force behind making it available for Republican members of Congress and their guests, all of whom would pay their own bills.
As critics began to attack the proposal, Mr. Fossella began to move away from the plan, saying that he was merely passing along information. Mr. DeLay stuck with it, even as union leaders in New York were saying that they felt the Republicans negotiated terms of the convention in bad faith. Some of the union leaders said they would abandon an agreement not to strike during the convention, a deal they signed because they were eager to bring the business of the convention to the city.
With the decision last night, New York City businesses should receive the full benefit of the conventioneers, while the cruise ship will lose out on a high profile week docked in New York harbor. That, however, is not likely to mean a loss of business for the cruise ship, which remains popular.
In fact, there remains at least one well-known New Yorker planning to take a room on the ship: Rosie O'Donnell. A travel company run by her partner, Kelli Carpenter, has chartered the ship for a gay and lesbian family holiday cruise in July, and Ms. O'Donnell plans to be on board with her children, the company said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Norwegian Dawn, the liner that Representative Tom DeLay has decided not to use. (Photos by Getty Images left ; Willie J. Allen Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CRUISES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); LODGING (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (77%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); DRINKING PLACES (60%); LOBBYING (59%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Hotels and Motels; Restaurants; Labor; Organized Labor ; Ships and Shipping

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Michael Slackman; Tom (Rep) Delay

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Hudson River; New York State

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



89 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
Mets View All Options As Market Changes

BYLINE:  By RAFAEL HERMOSO

 BODY:
Curt Schilling buoyed the hopes of the Red Sox last week by accepting a trade to Boston from Arizona. The Yankees, seeking a major deal of their own, have been hoping to sign the slugger Gary Sheffield, although negotiations have stalled this week. Second baseman Luis Castillo re-signed with the World Series champion Marlins Monday night, rejecting the Mets.
 Through it all, the Mets remain on the prowl for value. This week or next, they could make a modest move, announcing that John Franco, the 43-year-old left-handed reliever, will return for his 15th season at Shea. It would be the Mets' first move of the off-season involving a major league player. 
 The Mets were deeply involved in negotiations with Castillo's agents Monday night before Castillo took less money from the Marlins, a three-year, $16 million contract with a vesting option. The Mets seemed resigned to missing out on Castillo, considered the top free agent second baseman on the market, and General Manager Jim Duquette had already moved on to other business.
Duquette met with the free agent outfielder Reggie Sanders and his agent, Michael Powers, in New York yesterday morning. Last week, Duquette met with the free agent outfielder Jose Guillen.
The Mets will continue discussions with Arn Tellem, the agent for the Japanese shortstop Kazuo Matsui, but they are unsure if Matsui wants to play in New York and they have reservations about moving Jose Reyes from shortstop to second to accommodate him.
The Mets believe they can afford Matsui's asking price, expected to be around $21 million for three years, but with their payroll dropping to as low as $90 million from $120 million, they are considering using that money to fill their outfield needs.
Even though Duquette plans to monitor the market for outfielder Vladimir Guerrero, the Mets believe his demands are too rich for them, and they are now more inclined to acquire two second-tier outfielders and seek a more economical option at second base than Matsui.
Those outfielders may not include the free agent Mike Cameron. The Mets have not made an offer for Cameron, and one baseball official familiar with the Mets' plans said this week that Cameron's demands did not fit into the Mets' budget. The Mariners are believed to be interested in re-signing Cameron, and his agent, Mike Nicotera, while not discussing specific teams, said, "Nobody has been eliminated yet."
The Mets' yearlong attempt to trade Roger Cedeno continues, and their search for a strong defensive center fielder is likely to involve a trade or waiting for the Dec. 20 non-tender deadline, when players who are not offered contracts by their teams become free agents.
Even if the Mets don't get Cameron, they might look to the Mariners for a center fielder. If Seattle retains Cameron, it will look to trade or forgo tendering an offer to Randy Winn. The free agent market for center fielders drops off after Cameron, with Doug Glanville, Kenny Lofton and Tom Goodwin also available. 
The Mets' focus on outfielders now centers on Sanders and Guillen, each being considered for right field. Sanders hit .285 with 31 home runs and 87 runs batted in for the Pirates last season, while Guillen hit .311 with 31 home runs and 86 R.B.I. for the Reds and Athletics.
Guillen met with Duquette last week at the offices of the Mets' owner, Fred Wilpon. Guillen's agent, Adam Katz, said this week that Guillen was excited about the possibility of playing in New York and that discussions with the Mets were "moving beyond the preliminary."
The second basemen market includes Mark Grudzielanek, Fernando Vina, and Pokey Reese, each of whom would be expected to earn considerably less than Matsui. Grudzielanek hit .314 with 38 doubles and 73 runs scored for the Cubs last season while earning $5.5 million. Vina posted a .309 on-base percentage in 61 games while missing most of last season with a hamstring injury before the Cardinals opted for a $1 million buyout on his $8 million salary next season. Reese hit .215 in 35 games for the Pirates before tearing a thumb ligament. The Pirates declined his $5.1 million option for next season.
The Mets' search for a closer apparently won't conclude with Keith Foulke, the free agent from Oakland. While the Mets have maintained an interest, they have not made an offer and do not feel they can match what Boston and Oakland are offering. The Mets' preference is to sign a closer for one year and hope that prospects, among them Royce Ring, are ready a year from now. They like the free agent Ugueth Urbina and hope they afford him, something that can be said of most of the players the Mets are pursuing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jose Guillen, a free-agent outfielder who played for the Reds and A's last season, met with the Mets last week. (Photo by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); ATHLETES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); FLORIDA MARLINS (90%); BOSTON RED SOX (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); SEATTLE MARINERS (59%) New York Mets; Florida Marlins; Seattle Mariners

PERSON: Rafael Hermoso; Jose Guillen; Kazuo Matsui; Mike Cameron

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (91%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



90 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: In Dumbo, Remaking a White Elephant; 
Brooklyn Waterfront Landmark, Long Abandoned, Awaits New Life

BYLINE:  By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
It is called the Empire Stores, and for more than 50 years the cavernous, forbidding warehouse has been abandoned, a magnificent ruin between the Brooklyn and Manhattan Bridges along the East River.
 A signature of the Brooklyn skyline for at least 130 years that has transfixed residents and, to an extent, defined the waterfront, it has nonetheless resisted all efforts of developers, public officials and community stewards to reclaim it. 
 Now, Empire State Development Corporation, owner of the warehouse, has, through a subsidiary, signed an agreement with Boymelgreen Developers to transform it into a $100 million gateway to Brooklyn from the East River. 
According to this plan, the echoing spaces, cobwebs and rusting iron shutters of the 400,000-square-foot structure, a city and state landmark in the neighborhood known as Dumbo, are to yield to a Chelsea Market-ish conglomeration of restaurants, retail shops, art galleries and performance spaces. Its opening is scheduled for 2007. 
The proposal has been met by skepticism from another builder, and watchfulness from the community, but the development corporation has expressed only jubilation. "We are taking back the waterfront, and this building, with two bridges as bookends, is a Brooklyn showcase," said Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the development corporation and of its state-and-city-run subsidiary, the Brooklyn Bridge Park Development Corporation, which will lease the property to Boymelgreen for 39 years. 
Mr. Gargano said that 63 firms expressed interest in the renovation, but in the end three submitted bids. "Boymelgreen had the most to offer, in terms of the proposal and the maintenance that will be involved," which, he said, amounted to "several million a year." 
The Brooklyn-based Boymelgreen is hardly an unknown, with 20 projects under development in the five boroughs, which represent an investment of more than $1.5 billion, including 23 Wall Street and 15 Broad Street in Manhattan. 
Both Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg have issued huzzahs. "Not only will these wonderful buildings be restored, they will be the prototype for supporting a park with community-friendly economic development," Governor Pataki said.
And Mayor Bloomberg gushed: "The mix of office, retail, restaurant and gallery space in this historic structure will really make the waterfront park a destination, and enhance the growing Dumbo neighborhood." 
But the deal has been questioned by David C. Walentas, the developer who, years ago, launched the real-estate transformation of Dumbo -- the acronym means Down Under the Manhattan Bridge Overpass -- and whose control of millions of square feet of mixed-use space there has won him the sobriquet Mr. Dumbo. 
"I would be delighted if someone would do this, and quickly, because it would make my neighborhood more valuable," Mr. Walentas said of the development. "But it will sit there. And nothing will happen." 
Mr. Walentas, who was one of three developers vying for the Empire Stores revivification, contended that Boymelgreen had overbid for the right to develop the project. "My offer was substantially less," Mr. Walentas said, explaining that high rents at Empire Stores were unrealistic.
However, James F. Moogan, president of the Brooklyn Bridge Park Development Corporation, defended the deal. "This is a realistic bid, and we have realistic expectations," he said, adding that Boymelgreen made a nonrefundable $1 million payment on signing the agreement. "That shows us they believe it's viable. This proposal underwent substantial financial analysis by city and state agencies." 
T. William Kim, the Empire Stores project developer for Boymelgreen, said that "this is one of our priorities, and there is no question that it will be completed." He said Boymelgreen, in partnership with an Israeli businessman, Lev Leviev, will put $40 million into the project and finance the rest of the $100 million with its customary investment partners. 
Empire Stores sits on landfill deposited in the late 18th century and early 19th century, which extended the reach of the Village of Brooklyn, the future borough's first civic settlement.
A report written by the architectural firm Beyer Blinder Belle, said that the first warehouse buildings at the site, called the Empire Stores (as in storehouses) even then, date back to the 1850's. By 1869 or so, larger private warehouses built by a merchant, James Nesmith, and his son Henry already hugged the shoreline. The finishing touches came in 1886, three years after the Brooklyn Bridge was completed. 
Once a storehouse for spices and green coffee beans, the monolithic warehouse is actually composed of seven structures, and has load-bearing, two-foot-thick walls of brick masonry and interior walls of fieldstone. It was framed with massive first-growth lumber from America's primordial pine forest.
In the 1880's, Herman Melville, toiling on Wall Street in the New York Customs House, would have seen the warehouse complex right across the harbor. But he never could have predicted that it would become Brooklyn's 21st-century counterpart of Moby Dick. The Empire Stores remained the great white whale of New York architectural preservation, since, as an industrial building, it flew below the radar of history. 
The warehouse declined with the pre-eminence of trucking and railway transportation, and was mostly abandoned in the 1950's. After brief ownership by Con Edison, Empire Stores was taken over by the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation in 1978. 
During the Lindsay administration there were proposals to transform it into a wholesale meat market. During the Koch administration, there were plans for a festival marketplace akin to the South Street Seaport, not to mention a lawsuit by Mr. Walentas against the city. Another development proposal was made in 1991, but went unheeded. In 1999 Mr. Walentas announced a plan to make the Empire Stores a centerpiece of a $300 million cultural and retail complex, but this galvanized community groups into opposing what they said was overdevelopment. 
These days, the Empire Stores, on Water Street between Dock and Main Streets, endures in Stygian darkness behind its iron shutters. The buildings still yield the perfume of spices and coffee-bean remnants still crunch underfoot; a flashlight reveals disintegrating floors and onetime workers' graffiti on the walls. 
The warehouse was declared a landmark inside and out by both the state and the city in the 1970's. "We want to keep as much of the historic interior as possible," said Jay Valgora, the design principal for Boymelgreen's restoration architect, WalkerGroup, part of the WPP advertising holding company. 
It is the largest preservation redevelopment attempted by WalkerGroup, which has developed projects in New York, Tokyo, and Bilbao and Salamanca, Spain. Mr. Valgora's design calls for a ground-floor grand arcade on the side overlooking the Manhattan skyline and the Brooklyn Bridge; a terrace and esplanade would allow access to cafes and retail stores, a mix somewhat like that at Chelsea Market, the successful arcade in Manhattan created from a former Nabisco cookie factory. 
He would also construct several glass-and-steel atriums coexisting with the old walls, creating courtyards spanned with glass bridges. Unlike the South Street Seaport, Mr. Valgora said, the space would "not be an evocation of Ye Olde New York." Instead, he said, "we're hoping for destination retail stores, such as unique Brooklyn design and furniture companies." 
Above the warehouse, atop a new public park on the roof, would be a curving sculptural structure that would be lit at night. "We hope," Mr. Valgora said, "it can become another symbol for Brooklyn."
All of Mr. Valgora's architectural additions must be approved by the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation. And beyond that, the project must undergo an environmental impact study. 
The mixed-use proposal for the warehouse is part of a community-generated master plan from 2000, guiding the economic development of Brooklyn Bridge Park, a 67-acre stretch of waterfront between Atlantic Avenue and Jay Street that would be turned into a riverside promenade with recreational and cultural amenities and limited commercial development. 
The plan will thus be closely scrutinized by the community. Residents have opposed traffic-clogged streets and other threats they saw in more grandiose proposals. Mr. Moogan, president of the development corporation, said that Community Board 2 had been briefed on the Boymelgreen plan. He said, "We are committed to sustained public involvement," through the development corporation's 25-member citizen's advisory council. 
Marianna Koval, executive director of the Brooklyn Bridge Park Coalition, an alliance of some 60 community groups, said that the Empire Stores was "the jewel in the crown of this park." Having seen elements of the Boymelgreen plan, she said the coalition would monitor the development, but "is cautiously optimistic." 
Others in the neighborhood are more openly enthusiastic. "I would welcome other restaurants," said Buzzy O'Keeffe, who became a pioneer in the transformation of the Brooklyn waterfront after fighting for 12 years to be able to open the River Cafe in 1977. "My basic feeling is that any improvement down here is good for the area."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Empire Stores on the Dumbo waterfront in Brooklyn, as it would look after renovations. Restaurants, shops, galleries and performance spaces are proposed for the space, an abandoned 19th-century warehouse. (Photo by Boymelgreen Developers); Yojany Ramirez, a New York State park ranger, examines a hoist inside the Empire Stores warehouse. Some of the old equipment, including the hoist, remains more than a century after the building's heyday. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. B8); The Empire Stores warehouse, at left, faces a classic view of the Brooklyn Bridge and Lower Manhattan's skyline. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (88%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); RETAILERS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); RENTAL PROPERTY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%) Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Empire State Development Corp

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) Glenn Collins

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003 



91 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Rich in Oil, Poor in Everything Else; 
Making Sure The Money Goes Where It's Supposed To

BYLINE:  By Anthony Richter and Svetlana Tsalik; Anthony Richter is director of the Central Asia and Middle East Initiatives of the Open Society Institute. Svetlana Tsalik is director of its Revenue Watch program.

 BODY:
America has always lusted after a secure energy supply. Against a background of deteriorating relations with the Arab world, which holds the largest oil reserves, the United States is casting about for new sources of oil in countries like Venezuela, Nigeria, Sao Tome and Azerbaijan. With Saddam Hussein gone, Iraq could also become a major supplier.
 So intense is the need for oil that the United States often turns a blind eye to problems of governance in those countries -- whether the leaders are corrupt, abuse human rights or block any moves toward democracy. This inaction amounts to complicity. It undermines, rather than enhances, American energy security, since repressive regimes are prone to being violently overthrown by people who resent the United States for supporting their oppressors. 
 It is one of the great paradoxes that countries rich in natural resources tend to have lower growth rates, more debt, worse governance and greater political unrest than their energy-poor neighbors. Vast petroleum profits without oversight allow corruption to flourish. Nigeria, for instance, has earned more than $250 billion for its oil in the last 25 years, yet remains mired in poverty. In Turkmenistan, gas revenues are deposited into a foreign account controlled by the president for life, Saparmurat Niyazov, international financial officials say. These kinds of governments do not make for stable energy suppliers.
As the United States seeks security by diversifying energy suppliers, it risks new vulnerability. Recent events in Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan, identified as important new suppliers by Vice President Dick Cheney's energy task force, highlight some of these risks. In October, President Heydar Aliyev of Azerbaijan handed over power to his son, Ilham, after the son prevailed in elections widely seen as rigged and marred by widespread beatings and arrests of opposition figures. As for Kazakhstan, American prosecutors say they are investigating the role of ExxonMobil in a scheme in which an American oil consultant is accused of paying $78 million in bribes to senior Kazakh officials. There is a similar investigation involving Azerbaijan.
It's easy to see how the Caspian Basin could follow the path of so many oil-producing countries in the Middle East and Africa, where a corrupt elite, not the population, benefits from oil resources. But Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan, where the oil wealth is just beginning to flow, and Iraq, where an oil regime is not yet established, could still get it right.
Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan have taken a positive first step by establishing oil funds, in which a portion of oil revenues are set aside for national development projects. Oil funds, however, succeed only with a system of checks and balances, coupled with transparency of information about oil revenues. Oil funds in Venezuela and in the Middle East are controlled by presidents or monarchs and have dwindled because of corruption and mismanagement.
Iraq's oil fund -- called the Development Fund for Iraq -- also has room for improvement. Established by the Americans and their allies, and endorsed by the United Nations in May, the fund has disbursed $1.5 billion. There is little information on where this money went, and American management of the fund has bred mistrust among Iraqis as well as America's allies.
In Iraq, as elsewhere, it is now up to the people to ensure that such oil funds are run transparently. Citizens' advisory councils modeled on those in Alaska's Prince William Sound might be a good forum to address the economic and environmental impact of petroleum development. Freedom of information laws should be passed and people trained how to use them. Any contracts about producing oil and gas should be disclosed. To demonstrate their commitment to fiscal transparency, oil funds should report information as recommended by the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, a British proposal whose tenets were endorsed by the Group of 8 countries earlier this year. The initiative aims to increase the transparency of payments made by energy companies to host governments by standardizing the templates used to report such payments.
The private sector must also do its part. The Publish What You Pay Campaign, which is sponsored in part by the Open Society Institute, has called on oil, gas and mining companies to reveal the extent of their payments to resource-rich countries. If this initiative is adopted widely, civic groups can track the allocation of their national income.
Adding more unstable regimes to the pool of oil suppliers will not give the United States energy security. It cannot be guaranteed by regimes that are on the verge of being toppled or that rely on repression to stay in power. American energy security can come only through partnerships with legitimate, elected governments that are able to translate oil wealth into better lives for their citizens. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); BRIBERY (75%); POLITICS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); ETHICS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (59%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) RICHTER, ANTHONY; TSALIK, SVETLANA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AZERBAIJAN (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); NIGERIA (93%); SAO TOME & PRINCIPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); TURKMENISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



92 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: If Geology Is Destiny, Then Russia Is in Trouble 

BYLINE:  By Moises Naim; Moises Naim is editor of Foreign Policy magazine.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Russia's future will be defined as much by geology as by ideology. Unfortunately, while leaders can pick their ideology, they don't have much of a choice when it comes to geology.
 Russia has a lot of oil, and this inescapable geological fact will determine many of the policy choices available to it. Oil and gas now account for roughly 20 percent of Russia's economy, 55 percent of all its export earnings and 40 percent of its total tax revenues. Russia is the world's second largest oil exporter after Saudi Arabia, and its subsoil contains about 30 percent of the world's gas reserves. It already supplies 30 percent of Europe's gas needs. And Russia's oil and gas industry will only become more important. No other sector has the potential to be as internationally competitive, or as profitable. 
 Yet such growth is also dangerous. Russia risks becoming, and in many respects may already be, a "petrostate." In the debate set off by the arrest of Mikhail Khodorkovsky, the former chief executive of Yukos Oil and Russia's richest man, over what kind of country Russia is becoming, its characteristics as a petrostate deserve as much attention as the Kremlin's factional struggles.
Petrostates are oil-rich countries plagued by weak institutions, a poorly functioning public sector, and a high concentration of power and wealth. The gulf between a petrostate's rich natural resources and the chronic poverty of its citizens often leads to political unrest and frustration. Nigeria and Venezuela are good examples.
That Russia is rich in oil is old news. What's new are the changes in politics, technology and markets in the petroleum sector. Throughout the 1990's, privatization and innovations in exploration and drilling brought into production oil fields that had hitherto been underperforming or off limits. To energy companies worried about growing domestic instability among the major oil exporters of the Middle East, Russia became an attractive hedge.
Regardless of its political turmoil, Russia will continue to appeal to oil companies. They know how to operate profitably in countries with weak property rights and unstable politics, and sooner or later Russia's beguiling geology will attract companies that cannot afford to be left out of some of the world's richest oil reservoirs.
But what's good for the energy markets is not necessarily good for Russia. When oil revenues flood a nation that has a weak system of democratic checks and balances, dysfunctional politics and economics ensue. A strong democracy and an effective public sector help explain why oil has not distorted Norway the way it has Nigeria or Venezuela. A lot of oil, combined with weak public institutions, fuels poverty, inequality and corruption. It also undermines democracy.
The economic effects are more noticeable. A country whose economy relies mostly on oil exports inevitably has an exchange rate that encourages imports and hinders exports. Such an imbalance favors oil at the expense of other sectors, like agriculture and manufacturing, as their products become more expensive abroad.
And while oil generates export revenues and taxes for the government, it creates few jobs. Despite its enormous economic weight, Russia's oil and gas industry employs just two million workers out of an economically active population of 67 million. Also, since the price of oil is volatile, petrostates suffer constantly from boom-bust cycles. The busts leave in their trail banking crises and public budget cuts that hurt the poor disproportionately.
Even the tax revenue generated by oil is a mixed blessing. Petrostates commonly suffer from a narrow tax base. In Russia, for example, the 10 largest companies account for about half of total tax revenues.
The political consequences of all this are corrosive. Thanks to the inevitable concentration of the industry into a few large firms, owners and managers acquire enormous political clout. In turn, corruption often thrives, as a handful of politicians and government regulators make decisions that are worth millions to these companies.
Nationalizing the oil industry fails to solve these problems: state-owned oil companies often become relatively independent and are rife with corruption, inefficiency and politicization. Privatizing the industry without strong regulatory and tax agencies is also not a solution, as private monopolists are no better than public ones.
In petrostates, bitter fights over the control and distribution of the nation's oil revenues become the gravitational center of political life. It is no accident that the current crisis in Russia hinges on control of the country's largest oil company and the political uses of its profits.
But Russia is not Nigeria. It is a large, complex country with a highly educated population, a relatively strong technological base and an economy that is still somewhat diversified. A strong and independent public sector, tempered by the checks and balances of a truly democratic system, will help Russia to compensate for the economic and political weaknesses that plague all countries where oil is the biggest industry and the most potent political force. Such institutions are essential if Russia is to overcome the crippling effects of its ideological past and its geological present. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRIVATIZATION (71%); TRENDS (68%); CORRUPTION (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (56%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (68%)

PERSON: NAIM, MOISES 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); NIGERIA (93%); NORWAY (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) RUSSIA; VENEZUELA; NIGERIA; NORWAY

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



93 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Rich in Oil, Poor in Everything Else; 
Can Profits Promote Democracy in Africa?

BYLINE:  By Daphne Eviatar; Daphne Eviatar is a Pew journalism fellow at the Johns Hopkins School for Advanced International Studies.

DATELINE: LUANDA, Angola 

 BODY:
The United States is expected to import 25 percent of its oil from Africa by 2015. Whether it will export democracy and stability in return is another question -- one that will most likely be answered by the way in which American oil companies and the United States conduct business with countries like Angola.
 Although Angola is finally at peace after decades of catastrophic civil war, its oil riches don't appear to be doing the country much good. Despite the production of almost a million barrels of oil a day, the vast majority of Angola's 10.7 million people live in grinding poverty. Government officials and oil executives live in villas behind security walls and barbed wire. But most Angolans -- even here in Luanda, the capital -- stay in crumbling cement-block huts without electricity or running water. Along the streets, children pick through mountains of roadside garbage while their parents hawk sundries from car to car or sell produce in the dirt alongside open sewers. The average life expectancy is around 40; the country has one of the highest infant mortality rates in the world. 
 The United States, eager to strengthen its ties with Angola, last year spent more than $100 million on the country's humanitarian emergency. It is expected to add $40 million more for 2003. But that's nothing compared to the oil revenues that disappear from government coffers each year. The International Monetary Fund has found that about $1 billion went unaccounted for each year in Angola from 1997 to 2001.
That kind of money could go a long way toward providing emergency food, water and medicine to help the country heal from a civil war that left half a million dead and millions more homeless and ravaged the country's economy. It could also help revive Angolan agriculture, which before the war produced enough maize, beans and cassava to feed the country. (That war, it should be noted, was financed in part by the United States during the cold war. The Reagan administration supported the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola, or Unita, in its effort to overthrow the country's Marxist, Soviet-backed government.)
While the State Department condemns Angola's "persistent fiscal mismanagement and corruption," the United States has, at least publicly, stayed quiet about the uses of Angola's oil money.
American officials say it is not their job to tell Angola what to do. "It's more a process of persuasion, trying to defend a commonality of our relationship," said an embassy official who spoke only on the condition of anonymity. "It's a partnership." 
That partnership was underscored last year when President Bush welcomed President Jose Eduardo dos Santos to the White House, and when Secretary of State Colin Powell made an official visit to Angola. The United States is cementing its ties with a mammoth new $40 million fortified embassy perched high on a hill above Luanda. 
It is a growing partnership that gives the United States unfettered access to Angola's oil. Sixty percent of Angolan oil is now pumped by ChevronTexaco; the United States buys more than half of all the oil Angola produces. And Angola is expected to expand its exports. Recent discoveries of deep-water reserves off the coast will probably double production within five years.
But will anything change? Will oil wealth in Africa spread beyond a powerful few? In a recent report, the Central Intelligence Agency was not optimistic, predicting that "the pattern of oil wealth fostering corruption rather than economic development will continue."
In Angola, the United States has the opportunity to prove the agency wrong -- if it takes several concrete steps. First, the United States should insist that its aid contributions be matched by funds from Angola's treasury. Angola has to invest in its own future. 
Second, the United States should promote accountability in Angola by restoring aid to local pro-democracy and independent media organizations. (This aid, administered through the United States Agency for International Development, was reduced significantly three years ago.) 
And third, the United States should compel American oil companies to make public what they pay to Angola for its oil. Right now, those payments are secret -- as they are elsewhere in the world. As a result, no one really knows what the government earns from oil. That makes it impossible for Angolans to respond to their leaders' claims that oil revenues are being spent wisely. The Securities and Exchange Commission should therefore insist that publicly traded oil companies publish their payments to governments. If that happened, it could encourage real democracy. 
As the United States searches for ways to promote its professed values the world over, it could do far more to see to it that oil profits enrich an entire country, not just a chosen few. Angola would be a good place to start.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); ETHICS (77%); CHILD SOLDIERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); POLITICS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TRENDS (66%); INFANT MORTALITY (52%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ETHICS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%) CHEVRONTEXACO CORP 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) EVIATAR, DAPHNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANGOLA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (94%) ANGOLA

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



94 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: On North Africa Trip, Powell Is Soft On Allies With Rights Blemishes 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS 

DATELINE: ALGIERS, Dec. 3 

 BODY:
Ending a two-day sweep of North Africa on Wednesday, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell offered praise and rewards for allies that he acknowledged were still moving toward full democracy, taking a cautious approach to concerns about human rights abuses. 
 The nations visited by Mr. 
Powell are eager to deepen their ties with the United States, and two -- Morocco and Tunisia -- have suffered bombing attacks attributed to international terrorists. The secretary's goal appeared in part to be to fortify those nations, along with Algeria, and avoid giving anti-Western terrorists more of a foothold in North Africa. 
 Mr. Powell announced a fourfold increase in economic aid to Morocco, a close partner among Muslim nations, which has received $42.1 million since 2000. He invited the Tunisian president, Zine el-Abidine ben Ali, to visit President Bush at the White House in February, and he expressed support for free trade agreements. 
Mr. Powell praised Mr. ben Ali's government for improving health care and literacy and incorporating women into economic life. He offered a gentle prod to the president, whose ruling party has smothered opposition parties and who won 99.4 percent of the vote that re-elected him in 1999. 
"The world is looking for more political pluralism and openness and a standard of openness that deals with journalists being able to do their work," Mr. Powell said. 
Human rights groups were more outspoken. 
"Tunisian President ben Ali must end the systematic harassment and repression of all those who criticize the government," the group Human Rights Watch said in a letter to Mr. Powell. 
Mr. Powell touched down for several hours in Algeria, before heading to Brussels on Wednesday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); BOMBINGS (71%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%) POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); MARQUIS, CHRISTOPHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOROCCO (94%); TUNISIA (94%); AFRICA (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ALGERIA (92%) TUNISIA; MOROCCO

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



95 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Into Thin Air: Kyoto Accord May Not Die (Or Matter) 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
Since it was negotiated in Japan in 1997, the Kyoto Protocol, the first treaty that would require countries to curb emissions linked to global warming, has lingered in an indeterminate state, between enactment and outright rejection.
 On Tuesday its prospects were dealt what may have been a fatal blow when a top Russian official said his country would not ratify it. But some experts on climate and diplomacy say that the fate of the Kyoto treaty itself is rapidly becoming less important than the longer-term processes it set in motion. 
 Even without approval by the United States and Russia -- first and fourth on lists of the world's largest emitters of heat-trapping "greenhouse" gases -- the treaty has already changed the world in small but significant ways that will be hard to reverse, these experts say. 
From Europe to Japan and the United States, just the prospect of the treaty has resulted in legislation and new government and industry policies curbing emissions.
The treaty's future impact is limited by deep flaws, many experts say, including its lack of any emissions limits on China and other big developing countries and its short time frame, with terms extending only to 2012. As a result, they add, new approaches must be developed now if atmospheric levels of the gases are to be stabilized.
The protocol has been approved by 120 countries but was rejected by President Bush in 2001. Without the United States, the only way to reach the threshold for enactment under the treaty's terms was with Russian participation. If enacted, it would give industrialized countries until 2012 to reduce their combined emissions of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases more than 5 percent below 1990 levels.
The possibility remains that the statement on Tuesday by the Russian official, Andrei N. Illarionov, the top economic adviser to President Vladimir V. Putin, was just a negotiating ploy, aimed at extracting as many concessions as possible from the European Union and Japan, the treaty's main supporters.
On Wednesday a lower-level official, Mukhamed M. Tsikanov, a deputy economics minister, sounded a note of hope for the treaty, declaring, "There are no decisions about ratification apart from the fact that we are moving toward ratification." Mr. Putin, meanwhile, remained silent.
Regardless of which way Russia steps, the process of moving the world toward limiting releases of the gases after more than a century of relentless increases has clearly begun, said David B. Sandalow, a guest scholar at the Brookings Institution and an assistant secretary of state during the Clinton administration who worked on the treaty.
"The standard of success isn't whether the first treaty out of the box sails through," he said. "The standard is whether this puts the world on a path to solving a long-term problem. Other multilateral regimes dealing with huge complex problems, like the World Trade Organization, have taken 45 or 50 years to get established."
Mr. Sandalow and other experts noted that the European Union had already passed a law requiring a cap and credit-trading system for the gases starting in 2005. It will follow the pattern laid out in Kyoto no matter what happens to the treaty.
Even in the United States, where Mr. Bush and the Republican-controlled Congress strongly oppose the treaty, legislation that would require milder restrictions on emissions than those in the Kyoto treaty has gained some momentum.
Opponents of the treaty acknowledge that it has already made a difference, though they say it is a harmful one.
"Kyoto is dead and has been dead, but that doesn't mean that it hasn't done some real damage and won't continue to do some real damage," said Myron Ebell, a climate policy analyst for the Competitive Enterprise Institute, an industry-backed group that opposes regulatory solutions to environmental problems.
"If global warming turns out to be a problem, which I doubt, it won't be solved by making ourselves poorer through energy rationing," he said. "It will be solved through building resiliency and capability into society and through long-term technological innovation and transformation."
Critics of that view say the one feature of the Kyoto treaty that cannot be jettisoned is a ceiling on emissions. Without limits, they say, there will be no incentive for industry to innovate and find the cheapest, most effective ways to limit the human impact on the atmosphere, said David D. Doniger, the climate policy director of the Natural Resources Defense Council, a private environmental group.
"If the United States had invented the catalytic converter but not passed clean air laws," he said, "it would still be sitting on a shelf and we'd still be choking in smog." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); APPROVALS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%) WEATHER; TREATIES; KYOTO PROTOCOL; LAW AND LEGISLATION; GLOBAL WARMING 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%) REVKIN, ANDREW C 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



96 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: LETTER FROM DULUTH; 
It Did Happen Here: The Lynching That a City Forgot

BYLINE:  By Monica Davey 

DATELINE: DULUTH, Minn. 

 BODY:
On an afternoon when a howling wind and early dusk gave promise of the northern Minnesota winter to come, two yellow buses pulled up to an empty downtown intersection and a swarm of bundled seventh and eighth graders poured out.
 They glanced up at the new monument on the corner, at the silhouettes of three men who, though frozen in bronze, seemed to be emerging from their sandy-colored wall. Then, it was right back to the buses, where students pronounced the monument good and returned to their chatter. Nothing beats a field trip. 
 The monument memorializes a lynching that took place at the intersection 83 years ago, but to the students, it might as well have happened a million years ago, on some other downtown hill, in some other universe. 
Racism is not a problem here, Matthew Johnson, 13, told a visitor on his bus. Not in 2003. His fellow students, white like him, nodded solemnly.
Just across First Street, the Kozy Bar was filling with regulars. From the worn tavern's front door, the view outside was of the memorial, shiny and unavoidable. That left some on those bar stools tossing out epithets.
"Why should we spend the money on that?" Barbara Haataja, 56, said. "The kids in our schools are still going without, and I don't know what it's going to do to give those people this, 80 years after. Besides, those men wouldn't have been killed if they hadn't done nothing, would they? Come on."
Back when the Kozy Bar still looked out on an empty lot, few people here knew what had happened to those men: three black circus workers who were hanged from a light pole on June 15, 1920, as a crowd of 10,000 looked on. Many white people had never heard of the lynching; older generations had chosen not to pass the memory down. Many African-Americans here -- just 1,415 black people are counted among the population of 86,000 -- had heard of it, but spoke about it quietly, among themselves.
Then Heidi Bakk-Hansen, who works downtown, read a book about the lynching. Every time she passed the empty corner at First Street and Second Avenue East, it haunted her. The men had been accused of assaulting a white woman, but a mob pulled them from jail before a trial and before anyone could see that the charges seemed dubious. In 2000, Ms. Bakk-Hansen, who is white, told their story in a local newspaper.
To many here, the memory was painful and inexplicable: how could a lynching, the legacy of Southern towns, have happened in a gritty but placid port city beside Lake Superior, nearly in Canada? And wasn't Duluth too small, too overwhelmingly white, for racial strife anyway?
For a small group of people, including Henry L. Banks, who is black, and Catherine Ostos, who is Latina, the story became a mission. They arranged a vigil. They started a committee to plan some small remembrance, perhaps a wall plaque somewhere. 
There were doubters in Duluth, a city more openly divided by economics than race: mansions on the east side, smokestacks and old factories on the west. Why dredge up the past in a city desperately trying to remake itself for tourists, with rows of quaint shops peddling canoeing gear and wild rice?
But the committee pressed on. It secured land and some city financing. It asked for donations and, along the way, found scars. One woman gave $10,000, anonymously. A relative had been working in the jail the night of the lynching, she said, and grieved over it the rest of his life.
In the end, it was far more than a plaque -- it was a 53-by-70-foot sculpture, costing $267,000.
Thousands filled the intersection this fall for the unveiling. Officials spoke. So did Warren Read, a fourth-grade teacher from Kingston, Wash. While doing genealogical research, Mr. Read discovered that his great-grandfather had been among those leading the mob. Mr. Read, who had never met his great-grandfather, flew to Duluth to apologize: To Elmer Jackson. To Elias Clayton. To Isaac McGhie. 
"As a family, we have used the discovery of this as a tool for continued discovery of ourselves," Mr. Read told the crowd. "This means our past, present and future selves, and a lesson that true shame is not in the discovery of a terrible event such as this, but in the refusal to acknowledge and learn from that event."
People wept. They praised Mr. Read's candor. They studied the memorial. They went home, perhaps concluding that an old racial divide had at last been patched. But then cracks emerged.
In recent weeks, at the University of Minnesota Duluth, the college on the hill, tensions have flared. At the library, two black students said they had asked a group of white students to quiet down, and were greeted with racial epithets. Another confrontation, a snowball fight, may have been provoked by a racial dispute, school authorities said. And a similar fight arose at a soccer game between students of different races. 
The details of these incidents are fuzzy. Students seem reluctant to talk about them. A school official, who is still investigating, said she could not discuss anything in detail.
Stickers of the Confederate flag, a peculiar icon so far north, have grown popular among some younger students here, Ms. Ostos said.
There have even been jokes about the memorial -- about modern-day lampposts and how many people might hang on one now.
"I think we all come up here to this predominantly white community and we don't expect to find racism, in part because we don't expect to find minority individuals," said Steve Hoag, the senior associate dean for the University of Minnesota's Duluth campus college of pharmacy, which has 5 black students, out of 52. "But once it happens, you begin to think that maybe we are so far north, so white, so isolated from many communities' experiences that we are complacent."
Some view the new tensions as a backlash to the monument. Others say the monument simply unearthed something bigger that has always been there, just out of sight. The city that had been so willing to atone for a racist sin had little experience with race at all.
"It's going to be something that this community will have to face in a thoughtful and proactive manner in order to catch up with the rest of the world," said Deborah S. Petersen-Perlman, director of the university's office of equal opportunity, who is investigating the recent incidents reported by black students. Just 118 of the university's 9,800 students are black. 
There is an old joke about diversity in Duluth: There is plenty of it, compared with some of Minnesota's blond Scandinavian and German towns. Thanks to the city's history with the Iron Range, which drew workers from all over Europe, brown hair is abundant here.
Since the memorial went up, Ms. Bakk-Hansen said, numerous white acquaintances here have approached her, quietly, to talk about race. "They have questions about African-Americans, and now they're not afraid to ask," she said. "There are still a lot of myths about African-Americans, and at least this has opened up the discussion." Not long ago, too, university leaders put on a forum -- "Eracism" -- where students and others talked about ways to sort out racial divides.
Back at the windy intersection outside the Kozy Bar, Kevin Ross looked over the sculpture and shrugged. "That's not going to change the attitudes of people around here," he said. He is 46 and black. He has heard the lamppost jokes. "This happened 80 years ago," he said. "It's kind of late to put that up. What does it change now?"
The images of the three bronze men were not drawn from life. Aside from a single gruesome photograph -- as the men were hanging and the crowd looked impassively at the camera -- Jackson, Clayton and McGhie left no images behind.
Carla Stetson, the artist, solved the problem by picking three young black men from Duluth as her models. "This way, it connects what happened in 1920 to today," she said. 
The faces of the three young men from Duluth, one in high school and two now in college, are sealed in bronze at First Street and Second Avenue East.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The new memorial in Duluth, Minn., to three black men lynched there in 1920. Not everyone in town welcomes it. (Photo by Ben Garvin for The New York Times); The lynch mob stormed this police station and jail to seize the three accused men. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (75%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (75%); RACE & RACISM (74%); DRINKING PLACES (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%) LYNCHING; BLACKS; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (59%) UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA-DULUTH 

GEOGRAPHIC: DULUTH, MN, USA (96%) MINNESOTA, USA (96%); LAKE SUPERIOR (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (65%) DULUTH (MINN)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



97 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Chrysler President Testifies in Kerkorian Suit 

BYLINE:  By RITA K. FARRELL 

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Del. Dec. 3 

 BODY:
A former president of Chrysler told a judge Wednesday that even if he had known Chrysler would become a division of DaimlerChrysler rather than an equal partner in a merger with Daimler-Benz, he would still have favored the deal.
 "I would still say Chrysler needs a bigger partner going forward and Chrysler needs an identity within that organization," James P. Holden, the former president, said in response to a question by Federal District Court Judge Joseph J. Farnan Jr. here after more than three hours of testimony in the fraud trial of DaimlerChrysler. 
 At issue is whether Chrysler shareholders were misled by the former Daimler-Benz chairman, Jurgen E. Schrempp, who said in 1998 that the two companies would merge as equals. Two years later, however, he told a reporter that he had always planned to make Chrysler a division. 
The billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian, who said his agreement to vote his 13.74 percent Chrysler stake for the deal was instrumental in its success, says he was defrauded by Mr. Schrempp. After reading Mr. Schrempp's comments in The Financial Times of London in 2000, Mr. Kerkorian sued Mr. Schrempp and the merged company for $1.2 billion. .
Mr. Holden offered an insider's view of the auto industry and Chrysler's struggle to regain its footing.
"You can't have an economy that makes you look good forever," Mr. Holden said, noting that since the deal the American auto industry had encountered more foreign competition, increased costs for buyer incentive programs, buyers conditioned to discounts and a glut of used cars.
Mr. Holden said that when he told DaimlerChrysler's management board that Chrysler profits for 2000 would be $2 billion instead of the $5 billion of previous years, he was told to go back, rework the figures and essentially give the board a $5 billion projection. 
Mr. Holden also testified that his severance contract prohibited him from disparaging the company. 
He met with DaimlerChrysler lawyers for two day before he testified, and was surrounded by them as he left the courtroom. 
Mr. Kerkorian's cross-examination finished the way it began Tuesday, with the lawyer for DaimlerChrysler, Jonathan Lerner, trying to prod him into admitting his lawsuit was not about a merger versus an acquisition. Instead, he argued, it had everything to do with the fact that DaimlerChrysler rejected his request for a share buyback and that while the former Chrysler chairman, Robert J. Eaton, returned Mr. Kerkorian's calls, Mr. Schrempp did not.
Mr. Lerner repeatedly suggested that Mr. Kerkorian would not have sued had "Eaton been there to have lunch with you and listen to your complaints."
Mr. Kerkorian replied, "I looked at this merger for honesty and fairness and not for deceit and fraud, which was there." 
Mr. Kerkorian said at the end of the day: "We were told by counsel that if we call them, we would go to settlement talks. I will not go into settlement. This is not about money. We will go to trial and win or lose."
A DaimlerChrysler spokesman, Han Tjan, said: "There are absolutely no talks going on and I don't know where they got the illusion that we would want to talk about a settlement. It's absolutely false." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (90%); MERGERS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); JUDGES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (77%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (76%); WITNESSES (76%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%) AUTOMOBILES; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (68%)

ORGANIZATION: DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%)

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (79%) HOLDEN, JAMES P; FARNAN, JOSEPH J (JUDGE); SCHREMPP, JURGEN E; FARRELL, RITA KATZ 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (59%) DELAWARE, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



98 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Automakers to Redesign S.U.V.'s and Trucks
The auto industry agreed to make design changes to sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks sold in the United States so they become less dangerous to occupants of passenger cars.
 Fifteen companies from four nations said they would redesign their light trucks, mostly S.U.V.'s and pickups, to reduce the likelihood they would skip over the front bumpers of cars in collisions. They also are expected to make side airbags standard. Page A1. 

Bush to Rescind Steel Tariffs
The Bush administration plans to announce today that it will rescind tariffs it imposed last year on imported steel, saying the temporary trade protection allowed American steel makers to get themselves in shape to survive against intense global competition, administration and industry officials said. A1.

Productivity Up 9.4% in Quarter
Productivity grew at a 9.4 percent annual rate in the third quarter, the largest quarterly increase since the second quarter of 1983, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said in its final revision. Also, it said, gross domestic product rose at a 10.3 percent annual rate in the nonfarm business sector. A separate report showed that an index of the service sector grew slightly in November. C11.

Stocks were mixed, with the Dow gaining 19.78 points, to 9,873.42. The Nasdaq dropped 19.82 points, to 1,960.25, and the S.&P. 500 was off 1.89 points, to 1,064.73. C11.

OPEC May Consider Output Cut
Energy and oil ministers from several members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries signaled that they might consider reducing oil production again by early next year, even though they did not see much justification for an immediate cut in light of current demand and prices. C10.

No Offshoot for Northwest Airlines
Northwest Airlines will not form a low-cost carrier, said its chief executive, Richard H. Anderson. He warned that airlines would cannibalize their existing businesses if they flew discount carriers on similar routes. C4.

Tech Industry Pressed on Security
Federal officials made it clear that private industry must make progress in voluntarily complying with the Bush administration's national cybersecurity plan or face new legislation forcing compliance. C8.

Top Editor Returns to Random
Phyllis Grann, who was chief executive of Penguin Putnam and vice chairwoman of Random House, is returning to Random as a senior editor of Doubleday Broadway Publishing. E1.

10 Charged in Online Drug Sales
Federal prosecutors have indicted 10 people and 3 companies that they say made $125 million from illegally selling controlled substances over the Internet. C11.

Europe Overturns Volkswagen Fine
A European Court has overturned a 2001 decision by the European Commission to fine Volkswagen in a price-fixing case. The ruling is expected to complicate future antitrust cases in Europe. World Business, Section W.

The Power of Endorsement
A chance endorsement by the actress Rene Russo, left, gave a lift to an old company -- the one that makes stick-on facial pads called Frownies and Wrinkies to smooth out facial wrinkles. The actress told Good Housekeeping she used Frownies to smooth out the crease in her forehead. The 114-year-old product became a success. Small Business. C6.

The Ties That Blind
When doing business involves dealing only with a small circle of like-minded colleagues, it's called relationship capitalism -- and it may be the biggest threat to open markets. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,873.42 up 19.78Nasdaq composite -- 1,960.25 down 19.8210-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.41% up 0.03The euro -- $1.2104 up 0.0022The dollar -- 108.12 yen down 0.66 Graph: "U.S. Productivity"Graph tracks the quarterly change at annual rate of U.S. productivity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); STATISTICS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); AIRLINES (89%); CARTELS (88%); PRICE FIXING (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (86%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); PROTECTIONISM (75%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (69%); OIL EXTRACTION (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (63%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (63%); INDICTMENTS (63%); EXECUTIVES (62%); EUROPEAN UNION COURTS (62%); LEGISLATION (61%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); PENGUIN GROUP (USA) INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: RICHARD H ANDERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



99 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: 2 Reports Indicate Recovery Is Taking Hold 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
The growing American economy has produced two statistics reinforcing the impression that a typical recovery is finally taking hold two years after the last recession.
 In such a recovery, the initial surge in economic growth settles into a more moderate expansion, and the nation's employers, gaining confidence, slowly step up hiring. That was the message from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, in its final revision of the productivity growth rate in the third quarter, and from the Institute for Supply Management in its November survey of corporate activity outside manufacturing. 
 "The numbers we are seeing all seem to be suggesting that the ice is breaking in the job market, that employment is picking up," said James Glassman, senior domestic economist at J.P. Morgan Chase & Company. 
Productivity grew at a 9.4 percent annual rate, the largest quarterly increase since the second quarter of 1983. Productivity measures the average output per hour of the nation's workers. The more they produce per hour, the more revenue there is from the sale of their output to fatten wages as well as profits.
During the third quarter, the output of goods and services, or gross domestic product, rose at a 10.3 percent annual rate in the nonfarm business sector, the bureau reported yesterday. That was slightly more than the overall improvement of 8.2 percent in the G.D.P., including the public sector as well as agriculture. The surge in third-quarter growth was enough to produce the first increase in hours worked -- 0.8 percent -- since the start of the recession in the opening months of 2001. 
All the increase in hours came among the self-employed, however. For the nation's wage earners, hours fell slightly, evidence that employers managed to increase output in the third quarter without reversing the labor cost-cutting that has characterized corporate management over the last three years. 
"The improved productivity could be coming from better capital equipment in place or people working harder or organizational changes or all three," said Marilyn Manser, an associate commissioner at the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Whatever the reasons, an eight-year improvement in efficiency appears to have lasted long enough to lift the nation out of the slump in productivity that started in 1973 and lasted until 1995. Through those years, productivity rose at only a 1.4 percent annual rate. Over the eight years since the third quarter of 1995, productivity has grown at an annual rate of 3.3 percent. 
Efficiency, in sum, outpaced demand. That helps to explain why nearly three million jobs disappeared from the start of the recession until August of this year, when the nation's employers began to add to their payrolls, and then stepped up the hiring in September and October. Now the Institute of Supply Management suggests that the hiring continued into November. 
The institute conducts two monthly surveys of corporate purchasing executives -- one for those in manufacturing and the second for those in the service and retail sectors as well as other nonmanufacturing companies.
The manufacturing survey, released on Monday, showed a sharp improvement in manufacturing activity and the first positive hiring plans since September 2000. The second survey, reflecting a survey of 300 purchasing executives at nonmanufacturing companies, showed that overall activity was rising, but not as quickly as in October. The index of overall activity fell to 60.1 from 64.7 in October. But the employment index rose to 54.9 from 52.9.
Readings above 50 indicate growth, while those below indicate contraction. Among the five subcategories in the overall index -- new orders, employment, supplier delivery, inventories and prices -- only employment grew faster than in October.
"What we are seeing here is that the growth rate of the economy is settling down to a more normal pace for a recovery," said Ralph Kaufman, who oversees the institute's survey of nonmanufacturing companies.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "U.S. Productivity"Index of output per hour of all workers in nonfarm businesses. 1992 = 100, seasonally adjusted. Graph tracks the index of output per hour of all workers in nonfarm businesses since 1999. 3rd Qtr. Revised -- Change at annual rate (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); PRODUCTIVITY (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY; LABOR; WORKING HOURS; HIRING AND PROMOTION 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (70%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%) LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (70%); JPM (LSE) (70%); 8634 (TSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (70%)

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



100 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: With Oil Prices High, OPEC Is Ready to Defer Supply Cut 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: VIENNA, Dec. 3 

 BODY:
Delegates to a gathering here of OPEC nations signaled on Wednesday that they might consider reducing oil production again by early next year, even though they did not see much justification for an immediate cut in light of current demand and prices.
 Energy and oil ministers from several members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said they were pleased for now with the results of a 3.5 percent output reduction in September, which jolted markets and drove the price of oil above OPEC's desired upper level of $28 a barrel. 
 But Ali al-Naimi, the oil minister of Saudi Arabia, OPEC's pivotal and most productive member, called on oil-exporting nations to remain vigilant, citing the decline of the dollar, the currency used in buying and selling crude oil, against other major currencies like the euro and the yen. The falling value of the dollar has made it costlier for some OPEC members to invest and make purchases in Europe and Japan. 
Mr. Naimi told reporters that "proactive action" needed to be taken and "anything is possible," stirring speculation that Saudi Arabia could be pushing for further production cuts, even as he described the market now as being in "balance." He made his comments on entering the hotel here where the meeting is being held.
Still, the OPEC talks, which are to begin formally on Thursday, are not expected to alter the current ceiling on output of 24.5 million barrels a day. OPEC's 11 members, which together account for about one-third of the world's oil production, agreed in September to reduce production by 900,000 barrels a day.
Since then, prices have climbed above $30 a barrel, leading some OPEC members to exceed their quotas in efforts to benefit from the high prices, analysts said. Petrologistics, a company that tracks oil tanker movements, estimated that OPEC nations in November produced about a million barrels a day more than the agreed-upon output ceiling.
Alvaro Silva-Calderon of Venezuela, OPEC's secretary general, earlier this week ruled out production increases, reflecting what appears to be a consensus view among the members that OPEC needs to preserve prices toward the higher end of its desired range of $22 to $28 a barrel. He said the organization could meet as early as next month to discuss any production cuts.
"OPEC has an abject fear of a price collapse occurring next year," said John Kilduff, senior vice president for energy risk management at Fimat Futures in New York. "There is real concern among the members of the system's ability to keep up with demand."
Perhaps most troubling to OPEC are projections that Russia -- which, though not a member, is the second-largest oil exporter after Saudi Arabia -- could increase production by as much as 5 percent next year. 
Algeria's oil minister, Chakib Khelil, said he expected demand to decline by 2.5 million barrels a day by the second quarter, in part because of the end of winter in the largest economies, prompting the discussion of holding another meeting in January or February.
Those worries could explain the sentiment of some OPEC countries now. Although the International Energy Agency recently called on OPEC to raise production quotas to reduce the price of oil, representatives from four members -- Libya, Indonesia, the United Arab Emirates and Algeria -- said that no immediate production changes were needed.
"We don't have strong reasons for changing the ceiling," Obaid bin Saif al-Nasseri, petroleum minister of the United Arab Emirates, said on arriving in Vienna.
Analysts said such views were to be expected since OPEC members were going into this meeting with different concerns than in September, when prices had been declining for several weeks. On Wednesday, though, futures prices continued to move higher, with oil for January delivery up 32 cents a barrel, to settle on the New York Mercantile Exchange at $31.10.
Higher prices could be starting to weigh on demand for oil in some countries. The United States Energy Information Administration, an Energy Department agency, said that in the week ended Nov. 28, American crude oil stocks fell 4.8 million barrels, to 284.3 million barrels, with imports declining by 23,000 barrels a day to an average of 9.13 million barrels a day.
"OPEC's oil price is close to its highest level of the year," said Julian Lee, senior energy analyst at the Center for Global Energy Studies in London. "They might choose to make a small cut now, but it's highly unlikely."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Noting the decline of the dollar, the Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, stirred speculation on supply cuts in months ahead. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); EXECUTIVES (60%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRODUCTION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: PETROLOGISTICS LP (53%); NEWEDGE GROUP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

TICKER: PDH (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424720 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS) (53%); NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%)

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON; NAIMI, ALI AL- (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (51%) SAUDI ARABIA (94%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); UNITED STATES (51%) SAUDI ARABIA

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



101 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Are open markets threatened more by a pro-business or by an antibusiness ideology?

BYLINE:  By Virginia Postrel; Virginia Postrel is the author of "The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness," published by HarperCollins. E-mail: vpostrel@dynamist.com.

 BODY:
IN the good old days, your local bankers knew you. You saw them in person, and maybe played golf with them or attended the same church. They didn't need a credit report to decide whether to give you a loan. Your character wasn't reduced to a numerical score. Trust didn't require computers or background checks.
 If those good old days sound humane, consider what those lending practices mean to the outsider -- to the upstart who doesn't belong to the right country club, isn't from the right family, isn't of the right race -- or to the insider whose entrepreneurial idea threatens established businesses. 
 Financing based on reputation quickly turns into financing based on connections, a closed system where what matters isn't what you know but whom. That system pleases incumbent businesses, which can get the funds they need without worrying about pesky new competitors. Controlling finance is a way to control the whole economy.
In their recent book "Saving Capitalism From the Capitalists" (Crown Business), the economists Raghuram G. Rajan and Luigi Zingales, both of the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business, argue that the biggest threat to open markets today, and their greatest rival, isn't an antibusiness ideology. It's the pro-business but anticompetitive system they call "relationship capitalism."
"Relationship capitalism is basically where a lot more is done through contacts -- who you know, how you know them -- rather than through arm's-length contracts, more transparency, more open dealing and so on," says Professor Rajan, who is now serving as the International Monetary Fund's chief economist. In relationship capitalism, "we do less through contracts and more through handshakes."
The system sometimes arises as the best way out of a bad situation. Personal relationships can replace an unreliable legal system in which formal institutions don't enforce contracts and the law doesn't require the information disclosure on which competitive finance depends. Extended families, close ethnic groups, or local social sets substitute reputation and social sanctions for courts and contracts. These arrangements are particularly common in developing countries.
But relying on reputation means keeping the group small. And keeping the group small conveniently limits competition. So relationship capitalism tends to survive when it's no longer needed, hampering economic growth.
Professors Rajan and Zingales argue that financial markets make the biggest difference between open, market capitalism and closed, relationship capitalism. Free financial markets allow outsiders with good ideas to raise funds, even when their businesses will compete with insiders.
"Free financial markets are the elixir that fuels the process of creative destruction, continuously rejuvenating the capitalist system," they write. "As such, they are also the primary target of the powerful interests that fear change."
In the United States, state laws used to limit banks to a single branch or, at the very least, to block out-of-state banks from doing business. As a result, many farmers could barely obtain financing, since small local banks were reluctant to risk their limited capital on unpredictable weather.
Farmers wound up paying exorbitant interest rates to the few lenders available and often sank hopelessly in debt -- giving financiers and markets a bad reputation.
Only in the last couple of decades has this closed system opened up. Technology allowed out-of-state banks to compete in places where they had no branches, and under pressure from that competition, states gradually lifted their restrictions.
"Rather than seeing their small, inefficient local champions being overwhelmed by outsiders, they withdrew the regulations limiting branches," the economists write. "With the exception of a few inefficient banks, studies show that everyone benefited. The withdrawal of these regulations typically led to a significant increase in the growth rate of per capita income in the state and a reduction in bank riskiness."
Closed financial systems live on in much of the world, stifling economic development, blocking upward mobility and giving markets a bad reputation. Natives of India and Italy, Professor Rajan and Professor Zingales note that the American economy is far more open, and in their view fairer, than many around the world.
"Generally in markets around the world, access is very limited," Professor Rajan explains. "When people complain about markets, they aren't really complaining about the principle that you and I cherish and see, but really about the way markets function in practice in their corner of the world."
From 1936 until well into the 1990's, for instance, Italy's major companies and the banks that financed them were entangled in a complex system of quasi-public, quasi-private ownership that made both hostile takeovers and large-scale start-up financing virtually impossible. The system provided government subsidies for inefficient companies and gave politicians a way to reward supporters.
"First the Fascists and then the Christian Democrats used finance as a clientele system," Professor Zingales says. "Control of the bank has always been a major source of control of the country." Only the external pressures of EuropeanUnion requirements got Italy to break up its closed corporate system.
India's big businesses similarly enjoyed access to government-controlled financing. They paid high interest rates but didn't mind because they got the money they needed and were protected from competition. But when India began to open its economy to foreign trade, the locals suddenly found themselves at a disadvantage, paying more for financing than their new competitors.
They started to push for financial reforms they would once have opposed. And, Professor Rajan says, once powerful incumbents "swing behind reform, reform moves so much more quickly." India reformed its stock market, improved corporate governance, instituted an electronic stock exchange and developed derivatives markets. Many new banks entered both the corporate and retail markets.
The challenge, Professor Rajan argues, is to "get the elite, the incumbents, to move from standing in front of the markets to moving behind them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ah, the good old days when you actually talked with your banker -- as in this scene from the 1936 movie "Old Hutch." Or then again maybe those days weren't so good. (Photo by Photofest) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); FUNDRAISING (78%); GOLF (78%); TRENDS (77%); FAMILY (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (72%); LITERATURE (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); CONTRACTS LAW (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); ETHNIC GROUPS (50%); ETHNICITY (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; CAPITALISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

PERSON: POSTREL, VIRGINIA; RAJAN, RAGHURAM G (PROF); ZINGALES, LUIGI (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN); SAVING CAPITALISM FROM THE CAPITALISTS (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



102 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Pressing Industry On Technology Security 

BYLINE:  By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 3 

 BODY:
Federal officials made clear Wednesday that private industry must make progress in voluntarily complying with the Bush administration's national cybersecurity plan or face new legislation requiring compliance. 
 "The private sector has to step up to its responsibility," said Bob Liscouski, assistant secretary for infrastructure protection in the Department of Homeland Security, at the first National Cyber Security Summit, a two-day meeting in Santa Clara, Calif., sponsored by the department and more than a dozen technology companies and industry trade groups. 
 "There are a lot of people who are willing to legislate," Mr. Liscouski said. "If that's what you want, I can promise you that's what you're going to get." 
Although the administration issued the National Strategy for Secure Cyberspace last year, efforts to improve the security of computer networks have been slow, Silicon Valley executives say. Richard A. Clarke and Howard Schmidt resigned from the post of cybersecurity chief this year and federal spending to improve computer and network infrastructure security has taken longer than expected.
Several of the 350 industry executives at the meeting called it the coming-out party for Amit Yoran, a former vice president at Symantec, a computer security company in Cupertino, Calif., who was appointed the nation's cybersecurity chief in September.
Industry executives said the administration's message had been unambiguous.
"There's already lots of legislation," said F. William Conner, chief executive of Entrust Inc., a Dallas computer security company and a co-chairman of one of the five committees established at the meeting to pursue specific industry computer security objectives. "Clearly the message was that if private enterprise doesn't start embracing this, more is to follow." 
In a speech Wednesday morning, Mr. Amit acknowledged that no major cyberattack had occurred, but warned that such an event was inevitable.
"Attacks so far have not inflicted major impact on our economy or ways of our lives," he said, but added that "our lives are filled with the invisible presence of cyberspace."
"Invisible that is until it isn't there."
In a brief speech at the start of the conference, Tom Ridge, secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, described the results of a simulated cyberattack in October called Livewire. 
The attack, set up by computer security researchers at Dartmouth College, was intended to assess national preparedness, Mr. Ridge said.
"On the whole we gave ourselves a pretty good grade," he said. He noted, however, that the cyberwar game had revealed some weaknesses in communications among government agencies. He cited the department's Computer Emergency Response Team, formed in March, as evidence of progress in creating the infrastructure for warning the public about potential cyberthreats.
"It only takes one vulnerable system to start a chain reaction that can lead to devastating results," he said.
Industry executives said that the meeting showed that progress was finally being made on the administration's cybersecurity plan.
"I think this is a good step forward," said Scott Charney, a former Justice Department computer crime official who is now Microsoft's chief security strategist. He noted that Microsoft had argued that the government plan was short on specifics. He also acknowledged that many of the challenges industry and the government face would take years to address. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CYBERCRIME (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); APPOINTMENTS (69%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SECURITY 

COMPANY: SYMANTEC CORP (92%); ENTRUST INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (84%) HOMELAND SECURITY DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: SYMC (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (66%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (66%)

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); LISCOUSKI, BOB; YORAN, AMIT 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



103 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Microsoft Eases Policyon Licensing Its Technology

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
Microsoft announced yesterday that it would adopt a more liberal policy for licensing its intellectual property, opening the doors to its storehouse of patents and copyrights to outsiders.
 The initiative is another step in Microsoft's effort to improve relations with other companies and to show regulators in the United States and Europe that it is a responsible company rather than a predatory monopolist. 
 For years, industry rivals and antitrust investigators have accused Microsoft of restricting access to its technology as a way to hobble competitors and restrict consumer choice. Recently, competitors have said that Microsoft has not lived up to the settlement terms in the federal antitrust suit in the United States that required it to provide reasonable access to its technology so that competing products can work smoothly with Microsoft's Windows desktop operating system. 
A pending antitrust complaint by the European Commission accuses Microsoft of limiting the technical information that it shares with the makers of operating systems for server computers, like Sun Microsystems and Novell. Those companies say they need more technical information from Microsoft for their products to work well -- or interoperate -- with Windows.
Though not focused on specific antitrust complaints, the Microsoft licensing program is clearly intended to deflect the criticism that the company is an uncooperative bully in its dealings with the rest of the industry. 
"A general theme has been that they would like to see Microsoft share more technology," said Brad L. Smith, a senior vice president and general counsel of Microsoft. "This is a step that will enhance and promote interoperability."
At another point in a conference call with reporters yesterday, Mr. Smith said, "This is the kind of step that will result in greater consumer choice."
Microsoft executives said that the program would include more royalty-free licensing, especially to industry groups setting software standards for machine-to-machine communication and data sharing, known as Web services. The Web services standards are regarded as essential building blocks for the further development and growth of Internet commerce.
"We'll stoke up our royalty-free contributions, especially in Web services," said Marshall C. Phelps, Microsoft's deputy general counsel for intellectual property. 
As part of the announcement, Microsoft also introduced two licensing initiatives for technologies that will presumably serve as a model for others. One is for its ClearType software for presenting near-print-quality text on a liquid crystal display computer screen, and another is for file storage technology called FAT, for file allocation table. Like most of the technology Microsoft intends to make available, Microsoft will collect royalties on ClearType and FAT, negotiated with the licensee.
Microsoft executives said they would be willing to talk to companies, including competitors, about most of its intellectual property. "We are open for business in terms of licensing our intellectual property," Mr. Smith, the general counsel, said.
Just how far Microsoft will go in licensing remains to be seen. Analysts note that Microsoft has a self-interest beyond forging better relations with the industry. Licensing fees, they note, can generate sizable revenues and profits, as they do for companies like I.B.M., and licensing elements of Windows software, like the FAT file storage technology, for use in equipment like digital cameras helps Microsoft strengthen its market position even further. 
"The more complementary products, the larger the Windows ecosystem," said Al Gillen, an analyst at IDC, a research firm.
But Microsoft executives say they do not expect a sizable revenue stream from licensing fees anytime soon. "That's not why we're doing this," Mr. Phelps said. "It's more to build relationships and part of the maturation of the company."
Microsoft has been developing the new licensing program for most of this year, meeting with older technology companies like I.B.M., Intel, Hewlett-Packard, Philips and Fujitsu to study their practices. In June, Microsoft recruited Mr. Phelps, who had been vice president for intellectual property and licensing at I.B.M. for about a decade. 
Mr. Smith described the licensing program as "another step in Microsoft's development as a company." 
"We're joining the ranks of other important technology companies," he said, "that have opened up their intellectual property portfolios." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (91%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); PATENTS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (89%); LAWYERS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (79%); ROYALTIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); NETWORK SERVERS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (61%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; COPYRIGHTS; INVENTIONS AND PATENTS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (97%); NOVELL INC (55%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%) MICROSOFT CORP; EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (97%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (97%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



104 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
WINDMULLER, JOHN PHILIP

 BODY:
 WINDMULLER--John Philip. The Martin P. Catherwood Professor of Industrial and Labor Relations Emeritus at Cornell University, died on December 2, 2003 at Kendal in Ithaca, NY following a long illness. John Windmuller was born on December 4, 1923 in Dortmund, Germany, son of Solomon and Bertha (nee Kahn) Windmuller. He left Germany on a children's transport in December 1938 after having been held for four days by the Gestapo. He was a passenger on the ill-fated voyage of the St. Louis and came to the United States in 1942. He served in the U.S. Army from 1943 to 1946, was active in postwar relief work on behalf of children in war-devastated European countries, and graduated with a B.A. degree from the University of Illinois in 1948. He then undertook graduate work in the School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University, receiving a doctoral degree in 1951 when he was appointed to the Cornell faculty. In 1983 he became the first holder of the Martin P. Catherwood Chair in Industrial and Labor Relations, and in 1987 he was named Professor-emeritus. He continued to teach for several years after his retirement. As a teacher, he had the satisfaction of seeing several of his students embark on careers in international industrial relations. Throughout his academic career Professor Windmuller was actively engaged in research, usually on subjects with a significant international or comparative aspect. He took a special interest in the operation of labor organizations, employers associations and collective bargaining systems. 
He also served on several editorial boards of academic journals and the Cornell University Press. For a book on Labor Relations in the Netherlands (1969) the Dutch government awarded him a medal. For many years, Professor Windmuller contributed to the development of international programs and activities in Cornell's School of Industrial and Labor Relations, and from 1961 to 1964 he served as its Director of International Activities. He also served as Associate Dean of the School from 1975 to 1977. On two occasions he held senior positions in the International Labor Organization in Geneva, Switzerland, chiefly to prepare a study of Collective Bargaining in Industrialized Market Economies. John Windmuller is survived by Ruth, his wife of 56 years; a daughter Betsey Roberts (Neil) of Los Angeles; a son, Thomas (Cathy Overly) of Geneva, Switzerland; and a grandson (Jonathan) also of Geneva. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); DEATHS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); CHILDREN IN ARMED CONFLICT (76%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); ARMIES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%) 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (93%)

PERSON:  WINDMULLER, JOHN PHILIP 

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) GERMANY (91%); NETHERLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); SWITZERLAND (90%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



105 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: On Eve of Trade Talks, Group Reports Salvador Labor Abuses 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
A study by a prominent human rights organization has found widespread abuse of labor rights in El Salvador just as final negotiations are to begin for that country and four Central American neighbors to create a free trade agreement with the United States. 
 The study, conducted by Human Rights Watch and scheduled to be released today, documented many examples of violations of workers' rights in El Salvador's manufacturing, textile and transport industries. The 110-page report also criticized the enforcement of labor laws and what it called the inability of many Salvadoran workers to fight labor abuses through the legal system. 
 The study was released ahead of talks scheduled next week and aimed at forming a Central America Free Trade Agreement, or Cafta, and could raise pressure on negotiators to strengthen provisions in the agreement on workers' rights.
Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, is hoping to conclude talks with El Salvador, Honduras, Costa Rica, Nicaragua and Guatemala. Mr. Zoellick also said last month that he would negotiate to bring a sixth country, the Dominican Republic, into the agreement.
Carol Pier, a researcher with Human Rights Watch, who prepared the report, said the organization was not opposed to the creation of Cafta. But she said the current proposal did not encourage stronger protection of workers' rights in El Salvador, a country of 6.5 million that has closely aligned its fortunes with those of the United States since adopting the dollar as its currency in 2001.
The study recommended that Cafta insist on labor laws that meet international norms.
The study mentioned constraints to enforcing labor laws in El Salvador, where 37 inspectors cover a work force of about 2.6 million. 
Based on investigations conducted in February in two Salvadoran cities, San Salvador and Santa Ana, and follow-up interviews and research from February to September, the study included interviews with workers, union officials, labor lawyers, representatives of industry groups and labor ministry officials.
In one example described in detail, employees at Confecciones Ninos, a textile factory with about 300 workers that sold products to American companies like Wal-Mart and J. C. Penney before closing in March 2002, said management had failed to pay overtime, provide paid vacations, grant permission for doctor visits and allow regular use of restrooms. 
Government officials in El Salvador have been awaiting the release of the report for weeks. Miguel E. Lacayo, El Salvador's economy minister and the country's chief negotiator in the Cafta talks, said his government was already taking steps to address labor rights abuses. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); OVERTIME (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); TEXTILE MILLS (76%); FABRIC MILLS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); TEXTILE MFG (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (67%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (60%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (91%) HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH 

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (72%) ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: EL SALVADOR (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); COSTA RICA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); HONDURAS (79%) CENTRAL AMERICA; EL SALVADOR

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



106 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Kyoto Protocol in Peril 

 BODY:
The news from Moscow on Tuesday was not good -- Russia, a senior official said, had decided not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol on climate change. Combined with President Bush's decision two years ago to abandon the pact, Russia's rejection would have effectively killed it. Then yesterday came word that it might have been a false alarm, a negotiating tactic to strengthen Moscow's leverage in economic talks with the European Union, and that Russia was indeed "moving toward" ratification.
 Let us hope this is the case. The 1997 protocol has many flaws. It is, however, the only international response to the global warming problem thus far devised, and at the very least it provides a plausible framework for collective international action. 
 One would never know this by listening to the Bush administration. Indeed, it can be argued that Russia would not be having second thoughts about the Kyoto accord had Mr. Bush himself decided not to bail out. Under the terms of the agreement, Russia -- whose economy collapsed in the 1990's, and whose global-warming emissions were thus well below the limits imposed by the treaty -- would have profited handsomely from selling unused emissions credits to countries with booming economies. But the market for these credits, and Russia's potential economic gains, diminished sharply when the United States, which would have been a major buyer of credits, pulled out. 
Meanwhile, the Bush administration continues to bad-mouth the treaty at every opportunity, the most recent example being an amazingly slippery piece of demagoguery by Paula Dobriansky, the under secretary of state for global affairs and the lead American delegate to a follow-up meeting on the Kyoto agreement that is now taking place in Milan. Writing in The Financial Times, Ms. Dobriansky begins by trashing the climate agreement as an "unrealistic and ever-tightening regulatory straitjacket." She then goes on to praise the Bush administration's alternative -- a mix of research and development into "breakthrough" technologies and voluntary emissions controls by American companies -- as much the better plan.
Ms. Dobriansky fails to mention two key points. The first is that the Bush administration's program would allow greenhouse gasesto keep building up, even though atmospheric concentrations are already alarmingly high and the name of the game is to stabilize and then reverse them. Mr. Bush's approach would translate into an actual increase in emissions of 14 percent over the next decade.
The second is that voluntarism will not work. While some companies seem willing to do something about global warming on their own, history has shown that the private sector as a whole will neither create new technologies nor, more to the point, put them into broad use without strong financial incentives. The Kyoto framework provides just such incentives because it combines mandatory limits on emissions with substantial, market-based rewards for operating more efficiently and then asks all companies to do their part. Ms. Dobriansky's belief that companies will spend heavily on breakthrough technologies if their competitors are not doing likewise is sheer fantasy.
The Kyoto Protocol has been ratified by 120 countries, including nearly all of the industrialized nations. Most have pledged to soldier on with their own efforts to reduce emissions, despite Mr. Bush's negativism and regardless of what Russia ultimately does. But it will not be easy for these countries to make major investments in cleaner power plants, alternative fuels and all the other things that must be done to reduce emissions while the United States, in effect, gets a free ride. The battle against global warming will never be fully joined unless America joins it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (66%) WEATHER; EDITORIALS; KYOTO PROTOCOL; GLOBAL WARMING; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) DOBRIANSKY, PAULA (UNDER SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



107 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: A Billionaire Wants to Be Moscow's Mayor 

BYLINE:  By ERIN E. ARVEDLUND 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 3 

 BODY:
In a bulging metropolis peopled by the elite and the destitute, a billionaire businessman is waging a come-from-behind campaign for mayor. Running against a wildly popular incumbent, the challenger is calling for an end to corruption and saying he will run the city as a transparent business and end the chokehold of bureaucracy. 
 On Sunday, Muscovites will elect a mayor, and Aleksandr Lebedev, 43, is startlingly optimistic -- for a man lagging in the polls. As a long-shot candidate with no political experience but deep pockets, he likes to compare himself to New York City's mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg, although he notes that "Bloomberg had much more time than me to catch up." 
 Mr. Lebedev is calling for more financial accountability in the city government's finances and less micromanagement by the incumbent mayor, Yuri Luzhkov. Mr. Lebedev says he wants to end the kind of cozy deals that he says Mr. Luzhkov cut for himself, his wife or their friends in real estate, banking and construction. "One-third of the city is misappropriated," Mr. Lebedev says. 
Mr. Luzhkov wants to build a new home for Moscow City Hall and the lower house of Parliament.
"Why? We don't need them," Mr. Lebedev said in an interview. He said he would sell or privatize television and other city media outlets, and stop the practice of stuffing local councils with appointees, to allow "true elections for city borough representatives."
Mr. Lebedev started out in the old Soviet security services, studying foreign languages and living abroad. From 1988 to 1992, he was posted as a "diplomat," code for a foreign intelligence officer, in Britain and developed financial expertise with emerging market debt. He founded National Reserve Bank in 1995 with the backing of Gazprom, the country's natural gas monopoly. 
National Reserve Bank had its brushes with scandal. In the 1998 devaluation and default, the bank lost more than $150 million in state bonds, and still ended up having to pay back creditors. Only this year did Mr. Lebedev's bank settle with Credit Agricole for an undisclosed sum. 
Today, Mr. Lebedev's bank controls $1.5 billion worth of assets, all pieces of Russia's industrial gems: 4 percent of the electricity monopoly UES, 1 percent in Gazprom, 30 percent of Aeroflot, 42 percent of the Ilyushin Finance aircraft leasing company, and other businesses. 
"I want to use what I learned in foreign intelligence in the company," he said. "And as for the city, to make it so every citizen is a shareholder." He said the mayor was not building affordable housing. "Only for the 'elite' is there construction. It's laughable." 
Mr. Lebedev insists he is not an oligarch, which he defines as "someone who made money unlawfully and unfairly." 
What does he think of the Yukos oilman Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, to whose arrest Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, supposedly gave the nod? "As a human being, I'm in favor of him. But as an actor, we should wait for the court's decision. Business can serve the government fairly and justly. And it can play a strong role in politics." Mr. Khodorkovsky is awaiting trial after his jailing on Oct. 25.
Mr. Lebedev's party, Rodina, or Homeland, is an oddball mix of nationalists, economists and businessmen, including the former central bank head, Viktor Gerashchenko, and the former commander of Russia's airborne troops, Georgi I. Shpak. With hard-liners and leftist politicians on the federal candidate list, Homeland alighted on Mr. Lebedev to top the bloc's Moscow list. So far, polls show Homeland has 7 percent of the vote in Moscow and 4 percent in Russia.
Mr. Lebedev's campaign literature is an odd mix of nationalism and quotations from liberal politicians like John F. Kennedy. "If a free society cannot help the many who are poor, it cannot save the few who are rich," reads one handout. 
So why does a man run when he thinks -- nay, knows deep down -- he will lose? Mr. Lebedev pauses before knocking on the car door, which his bodyguards swiftly open: "It's not just who wins. The bureaucrats are scared each time I say something about them."
Even with 10 million Muscovites, he says wryly, "It's actually a very small city, you know." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (94%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); EXTERNAL DEBT (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); ETHICS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (73%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); MISAPPROPRIATION (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); LEASING INDUSTRY (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); EMERGING MARKETS (68%); NATIONAL PARKS (67%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (64%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (64%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (62%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (50%); DEVALUATION (50%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ETHICS 

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (66%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (52%); AEROFLOT RUSSIAN AIRLINES OAO (51%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (66%); GAZP (RTS) (66%); ACA (PAR) (52%); ACA (BIT) (52%); AFLT (RTS) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (66%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (66%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (66%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (66%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (66%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (72%) LEBEDEV, ALEKSANDR; LUZHKOV, YURI M (MAYOR); ARVEDLUND, ERIN E 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) RUSSIA; MOSCOW (RUSSIA)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



108 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: BUSH SET TO LIFT TARIFFS ON STEEL 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3 

 BODY:
The Bush administration plans to announce on Thursday that it will rescind tariffs it imposed last year on imported steel, administration and industry officials said on Wednesday. The administration will argue that the temporary trade protection allowed American steel makers to get themselves in shape to survive against intense global competition. 
 Details of the announcement were still being worked out on Wednesday evening, and one administration official said the timing could still change. President Bush will not make a formal public appearance to announce the decision, officials said, though he may answer questions from reporters about it during the day. Instead, he will send members of his cabinet, including Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans, to confirm the shift in policy, which the White House has been signaling is likely to come this week. 
 Although the decision to drop the tariffs represents a rare turnabout in policy by the Bush White House, and could give the president's re-election campaign trouble in crucial states like Ohio, West Virginia and Pennsylvania, the administration plans to make a case that the tariffs are being lifted because they have accomplished their goal.
The change came after the World Trade Organization ruled against the United States over the matter last month and authorized retaliatory tariffs by European, Asian and South American nations against American exports. It also followed a lobbying campaign by domestic consumers of steel, many of them manufacturers in Midwestern states also vital to Mr. Bush's political fortunes, asserting that higher steel prices were hurting the economy more than the tariffs were helping steel makers.
The decision is likely to be packaged with promises by the administration to monitor imports to protect steel makers from any surge in competition from abroad,industry officials said. The administration is also likely to reiterate previous vows to press other nations to reduce their overcapacity in steel production and to help domestic steel companies with pension costs that the companies say they can no longer afford.
Mr. Bush imposed the tariffs in March 2002 when the weak economy and global overcapacity among steel producers had raised doubts about the ability of any of the old-line steel makers in the United States to survive. He said they would remain in place for three years, although he said he would re-examine the decision at the halfway point. 
Since then, the industry has made some progress in consolidating and cutting costs, but not enough, industry executives said, to justify rescinding them before the full three years.
Steel workers unions, many American steel companies and elected officials from both parties in steel-producing states lobbied hard to keep the tariffs in place until 2005. 
The decision to lift the tariffs was no doubt made easier for Mr. Bush by the improving economy. In particular, signs that the economy is starting to create jobs provided the administration more flexibility in addressing the issue.
Still, the decision is sure to bring condemnation from labor unions and the Democratic presidential candidates, who say the incipient recovery is largely bypassing manufacturing workers in the industrial states where steel remains a force. The administration's turnabout on the issue is a rare case in which either party has moved away from trade protectionism in the last few years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (92%); LOBBYING (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); JOB CREATION (60%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); ELECTION ISSUES; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%) MIDWESTERN STATES (US); OHIO; WEST VIRGINIA; PENNSYLVANIA

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



109 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: How Well Are We Doing? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 I would like to add one more statistic to your "Index of Missing Economic Indicators" (Op-Ed, Nov. 30): a true welfare measure. 
Gross domestic product and its cousin gross national product have long been used as proxies for how well we are doing as a nation, even though they had never been intended for this purpose. 
 Gross domestic product per capita is a good proxy for economic prowess, but as long as environmental degradation, increased military budgets and other "defensive expenditures" add dollars to the gross domestic product, equating it with societal well-being is woefully misleading.

GERNOT WAGNER
Cambridge, Mass., Nov. 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (88%); BUDGETS (88%); DEFENSE SPENDING (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (52%) United States Economy; Gross Domestic Product

PERSON: Gernot Wagner

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



110 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: In the Capital of the Car, Nature Stakes a Claim 

BYLINE:  By KATE STOHR

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
PAUL WEERTZ lives less than 10 minutes from downtown, but the view from his window is anything but urban. On a warm day this fall, the air was ripe with the smell of fresh-cut hay and manure. In the alley behind his house, bales of hay teetered and listed where garbage cans once stood. Chickens scratched in the yard, near a garage that had been turned into a barn. Mr. Weertz drives a Ford -- not a sleek sedan but a rebuilt 1960 tractor.
 "My sisters and brothers gave me a pig for my birthday," Mr. Weertz said, referring to his newest barnyard resident. "I am not sure what I am going to do with it." 
 After decades of blight, large swathes of Detroit are being reclaimed by nature. Roughly a third of this 139-square-mile city consists of weed-choked lots and dilapidated buildings. Satellite images show an urban core giving way to an urban prairie.
Rather than fight this return to nature, Mr. Weertz and other urban farmers have embraced it, gradually converting 15 acres of idle land into more than 40 community gardens and microfarms -- some consuming entire blocks.
Mr. Weertz, a science teacher, turned to farming 10 years ago to give his students a hands-on understanding of the food chain. Other Detroit farmers work for food banks, churches and community organizations hoping to sow seeds of urban renewal.
Staking claims on abandoned lots, they produce about six tons of produce a year, said Ashley Atkinson, head of the Detroit Agriculture Network, a loose coalition of 230 growers and volunteers.
"People really don't believe it until they see it," Ms. Atkinson said. "I have friends who say, 'You are joking me, right? This doesn't really exist in the city.' " 
Actually, it exists in nearly every major city. The population here has dropped to less than a million today from nearly two million in 1950. After the 1967 riots destabilized the city, families left in droves, leaving 40,000 lots vacant. The Department of Public Works says it spends $2.2 million a year clearing debris and weeds from the lots, which are periodically auctioned for as little as $250. 
"Detroit has been abandoned by everything, including grocery stores," Ms. Atkinson said, suggesting that in a city where many do their shopping at "party stores," liquor stores that sell some convenience items, community farms are more than a symbol of environmental awareness. 
Mr. Weertz has scattered his farm over 10 acres in seven locations. It churns out not only hay but also alfalfa, honey, eggs, goat's milk, produce and the occasional side of beef, which is butchered at a vocational school. About 100 students work as volunteers. 
On three vacant lots in northern Detroit, 500 volunteers are helping the Capuchin Soup Kitchen to plant, pick, pack, can and distribute a ton of produce a year: tomatoes, kale, cabbage, wax beans and more than a dozen other vegetables, leafy greens and herbs. Proceeds from sales, roughly $2,000, barely cover irrigation and other expenses, said the Rev. Rick Samyn, who coordinates the operation.
Urban farmers face a number of challenges, from finding water (renegades tap into fire hydrants, Brother Samyn said) to eliminating broken glass, concrete and unsavory contaminants like lead from the soil. Hayfields, mistaken for "ghetto grass," have been mowed down by the Department of Public Works just as they are ready to be cut and baled. Greenhouses are sometimes claimed by the homeless, and pilfering is a fact of life.
None of the farms are profitable, and all depend on students and volunteers -- more than 1,000 citywide, Ms. Atkinson said. Members of her network have received about $300,000 in grants and donations, she estimated, including a few grants from the United States Department of Agriculture normally aimed at rural growers. 
Advocates often say profits are secondary to building a sense of community. "It's a means for people to take control of their neighborhoods and get tangible results that they can see and eat," said Yamini Bala, coordinator of Detroit Summer, a youth gardening group. 
In 2000, frustrated by stadium-building and other traditional means of drawing business downtown, a group of growers, architects, urban planners and activists collaborated on an alternative city plan focused on neighborhoods called Adamah (Hebrew for "of the earth"). Drafted by architects and students at the University of Detroit Mercy, it proposed converting four and a half square miles on the east side into a self-sustaining village, complete with farms, greenhouses, grazing land, a dairy and cannery. For irrigation, Adamah proposed tapping an underground creek (now used as a sewage main).
Some of Adamah's elements are already taking shape in northeast Detroit, where John Gruchala, an electrician, and his neighbor Tris Richardson, a carpenter, began farming nearly an acre of vacant land six years ago. 
Today, working with neighbors, they produce a ton of tomatoes, cabbage, kale and peppers a year. They are converting an auto body shop into a community center with a cafe, a cannery and a greenhouse.
Mr. Gruchala says such a center could encourage other small businesses to invest in the neighborhood. "Growing vegetables is just a vehicle for other kinds of change," he said.
He and others would like farming to become a permanent part of the Detroit landscape. But much of what they do falls below city officials' radar. The chief city planner, George Dunbar of the Planning and Development Department, was surprised to learn that some farmers had claimed plots as large as an acre.
"Outstanding," he said. "If that's the case, then I commend the individuals who do that, but I tell you, if we advertise the property and it's city-owned land that we can get a housing development on, then I'll take that. I am always trying to increase the tax rolls to keep city services going."
In fact, earlier this year the city tried to use eminent domain to build an athletic field on nine lots farmed by Mr. Gruchala and Mr. Richardson, only six of them owned by Mr. Gruchala. The farmers worked out a compromise that will enable them to continue farming on all nine of the lots.
Others have been less fortunate. Three years ago Kami Pothukuchi, an assistant professor in urban planning at Wayne State University, dug a garden at a busy corner in southwest Detroit owned by a community group. A year ago, the group sold the lot to a developer. A convenience store is now planned for the site, Ms. Pothukuchi said.
In the absence of a citywide vision of a new kind of Detroit, of farms perhaps entwined with new businesses, nature continues to run its course. 
As frost settles on Mr. Weertz's farm, it's not uncommon to see rabbit warrens or pheasants. "It's a totally surreal experience," Mr. Weertz said. "You are in this urban area, and you are seeing this whole natural transformation that you'd normally have to go miles away to see."

GRAPHIC: Photos: MOTOR CITY? -- Nature is reclaiming large swathes of Detroit, with empty lots so prevalent that residents are taking up farming. Left, John Gruchala and Tris Richardson, foreground, harvesting peppers this fall; Paul Weertz, below right, who farms 10 acres with the help of students, keeps livestock just 10 minutes from downtown. His old Ford tractor, below left, helps bring in the hay. Far left, one of his goats. (Photographs by Tom Pidgeon for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARDENING (90%); HAY FARMING (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (88%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (87%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); POULTRY (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); FOOD CHARITIES (70%); VOLUNTEERS (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (66%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (66%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (66%); RELIGION (65%); RIOTS (61%); BEEF (60%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%) Agriculture; Gardens and Gardening

PERSON: kate stohr

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



111 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: HOCKEY; 
Empty Feeling for the Devils at Home

BYLINE:  By DAVE CALDWELL

DATELINE: WEST ORANGE, N.J., Dec. 3 

 BODY:
The Devils just went on a four-game Western trip. Befitting defending Stanley Cup champions, they generated a box-office rush in all four places. Two games sold out. Only 1,753 tickets went unsold for the other two.
 "And we're not even rivals of these guys," goaltender Martin Brodeur said of playing Los Angeles, Anaheim, Dallas and Colorado. 
 Then the Devils played the Phoenix Coyotes at home Tuesday. The announced attendance at Continental Arena was 13,204, or about 6,000 short of capacity. It was the seventh time in 13 home games that the Devils played before fewer than 14,000.
The Devils' overall home attendance is actually up by about 2 percent from last season, to 14,289 from 13,978, but the average was bolstered by sellouts in the home opener and on Nov. 15 against the Rangers. The players are mystified.
"We've given as good of a decade as you can give to anyone," Brodeur said Wednesday after practice at South Mountain Arena.
The Devils (12-5-6-0) cannot put a much better product on the ice. They have won the Stanley Cup three times in nine years and are a talented, dominant team in a league that has never been more competitive.
But the Devils are 23rd in the 30-team National Hockey League in reported attendance. They have played before home crowds of fewer than 11,000 three times this season. They played before fewer than 11,000 only three times all of last season.
"It's certainly disappointing, but by no means discouraging," Lou Lamoriello, the Devils' chief executive, president and general manager, said Wednesday.
The Devils have always been challenged to pack their arena. They are part of an entertainment market that includes two other N.H.L. teams, the Rangers and the Islanders. Continental Arena is not easy to reach by mass transit.
Lamoriello said the team had done plenty of marketing surveys, and he said, "There's no one concrete reason that keeps coming back."
The Devils' ticket prices, which range from $20 to $90, are considered about average by league standards. Moreover, Lamoriello said, they were not raised after the Devils won the Cup last season.
"It's not the ticket prices," said Ed Bogaert, the president of the Devils' independent fan club, the largest of its kind in the N.H.L. "I've seen the ticket prices in other places, and I think the Devils' prices are competitive throughout the league."
Lamoriello said the organization was determined to try harder. He said it had increased the advertising budget. Billboards with a photograph of the Devils' captain, Scott Stevens, hoisting the Stanley Cup seem to be on every bus in North Jersey. "It's not that we have done everything," Lamoriello said. "There's more we can do."
Early-season Devils games against a nonrival seem to lack sizzle. Often, half the seats in the lower deck are unfilled for midweek games.
The Devils hold youth hockey games and puck-shooting contests between periods, as many other teams do, but they do not do some of the things other teams do. The Islanders, for example, have hired a crew of young women on skates and wearing sequined outfits to shovel snow off the ice during stoppages in play; the Devils do the job with men wearing white coveralls.
"Everybody likes to play in a full rink," Devils defenseman Scott Niedermayer said. "The fans are a big part of this game. They bring a lot of energy, and it's fun to play."
Devils Coach Pat Burns said of the players: "They are the actors in the play. If you're playing before a not-very-large crowd, the acting's not very good."
It would not seem to be the team itself. The Devils are 7-4-2-0 at home, and their 3-1 loss Tuesday to Phoenix ended an eight-game home unbeaten streak. The Devils have not had the kind of malaise that previous Stanley Cup champions have had.
"Our job is to play hockey," Brodeur said. "We can't do anything about it but show up and play the game."
But they notice as early as the pregame warm-ups if a crowd will be big and enthusiastic. Often, it has not been.
After the Devils drew a season-low 10,008 on Nov. 19 against Buffalo, center Scott Gomez playfully suggested that the team had perhaps become too successful. "New Jersey fans are a little spoiled," he said, smiling. "They wait for the big moments."
According to the N.H.L., average attendance in the league is within 100 fans a game of what it was at this point last season. Burns would like to think the problem is leaguewide and generally caused by the economy. He has noticed that there have been empty seats at Canadiens games, and Montreal is the epicenter of hockey.
But Burns sees trouble when he sees so many empty seats. The N.H.L. is without a collective-bargaining agreement after this season. He intimated Wednesday that tickets cost too much to cover salaries that are too high.
Asked if players should consider that as they head into an uncertain off-season, Burns said: "I would. Where are we going?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Stanley Cup championship has not made the Devils winners at the turnstiles, and the players wonder what more they can do. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (63%); MARKET RESEARCH (62%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (61%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); BUDGETS (60%); MARKETING SURVEYS (50%) Hockey, Ice; Stanley Cup; Finances

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (94%); DALLAS STARS (83%); PHOENIX COYOTES (57%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%) New Jersey Devils

PERSON: Dave Caldwell

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



112 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 390 words

PERSON: George Arthur Murphy 

HEADLINE: George A. Murphy, 97, Irving Trust Chairman and N.Y.U. Trustee 

BYLINE:  By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
George Arthur Murphy, former president and chairman of the Irving Trust Company and a civic leader who headed the board of trustees of New York University in the 1960's, died on Sunday at his home in Washington, Conn. He was 97.
 Mr. Murphy spent his banking career with Irving Trust, working in its landmark building at 1 Wall Street for nearly 40 years. He rose as an officer in the personal trust and lending divisions to become a vice president in 1947, president in 1957 and, from 1960 to 1970, chairman. 
 Irving Trust, the smallest of the city's large banks, became part of the Bank of New York after a hostile takeover bid that was completed in 1988 after a yearlong battle.
During his tenure at Irving Trust, Mr. Murphy held directorships in various other businesses, including Otis Elevator, Continental Can, General Cable, General Telephone and Electronics and Warner-Lambert Pharmaceutical.
He also served as president of the advisory council of the Federal Reserve System, president of the New York State Bankers Association, and a manager and eventually chairman of the billion-dollar United Nations pension fund, an appointment made by the secretary general of the United Nations. He was a chairman of the Better Business Bureau of New York.
He was elected a trustee of New York University in 1959. He became vice chairman of the board in 1960 and served as chairman -- and the university's chief fund-raiser -- from 1963 to 1968.
Notably, he shepherded a gift from Elmer Holmes Bobst, the vitamin magnate, that went toward building the library now carrying Mr. Bobst's name; it was completed in 1972. He also persuaded Irving Trust to provide money for the library's economics and commerce collection. The Murphy Room on the Bobst Library's 10th floor was named after him.
George Murphy was born in Morrow, Ga., and graduated from Oglethorpe University in Atlanta in 1927. He received an M.B.A. from Harvard in 1931 and started at Irving Trust as a trainee.
In World War II, he became a lieutenant commander in the Navy. His connection with N.Y.U. alumni dated to 1942, when he received an L.L.B. from the law school.
Mr. Murphy is survived by his wife of 65 years, Ruth B. Milliken Murphy; two daughters, Louise A. Johnson of Concord, Mass., and Jean R. Smith of Cambridge, Mass.; seven grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: George A. Murphy (Photo by New York University, 1984) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); WORLD WAR II (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

Wolfgang Saxon

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



113 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: Bottom Line Club Is Given 5 Days To Pay Landlord 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
The Bottom Line, the venerable Greenwich Village nightclub where musicians from Bruce Springsteen to Miles Davis once played, was given five days to pay its back rent or face eviction from the corner of West Fourth and Mercer Streets, where it has been since 1974. 
 The ruling yesterday, by Judge Donna G. Recant in Manhattan Civil Court, seemed to be the final chapter in a long-running legal battlebetween the club and its landlord, New York University. The club owes $190,000 in back rent. 
 "No one is happy to be at this junction," said John Beckman, a spokesman for the university. But, he said, "over the course of many months, we gave them innumerable chances to try and resolve this, and they just didn't." 
The club had fallen behind on rent payments over the past several years because of what Allan Pepper, a co-owner of the club, called economic malaise that deepened after the Sept. 11 attack. The university took the club to court and demanded that it pay back rent and negotiate a new lease. It presented a new lease to the club in September. Its terms would have raised the rent and required the club to make renovations. 
In that month, several supporters of the club stepped in to help. Among them was a young Manhattan-based company, Sirius Satellite Radio. The company placed $185,000 in a bank account and said it could be applied to rent as soon as the club and the university agreed on a new lease. 
They never did. Mr. Beckman said the club never responded to the lease proposal. He said the university has three other similar retail spaces in the area, each of which pays $65 a square foot, far more than the $25 a square foot the club pays.
Mr. Pepper said he tried to negotiate, but that ultimately, university officials were not willing to consider terms he felt the club could afford. Now the club has five days to pay, a deadline Mr. Pepper said he did not expect the club could meet. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EVICTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MUSIC (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); VERDICTS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); SATELLITE RADIO (65%) Nightclubs and Cabarets; Renting and Leasing; Decisions and Verdicts

COMPANY: SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Bottom Line (NYC Nightclub); New York University

TICKER: SIRI (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (54%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%)

PERSON: Sabrina Tavernise; Donna G (Judge) Recant

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



114 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Deal Provides Final Approval For Complex In Meadowlands 

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: NEWARK, Dec. 3 

 BODY:
New Jersey will receive $160 million from developers for the rights to develop a mammoth entertainment complex that will transform the New Jersey Meadowlands, under the terms of an agreement approved on Wednesday.
 The agreement gives final approval to the $1.3 billion Meadowlands Xanadu project. It will be one of the most ambitious construction developments the state has seen in recent years -- a family entertainment complex with indoor ski slopes, a surfing pool and a mini-Formula One racing oval. Plans for the 104-acre complex call for the eventual addition of stores, restaurants, offices, hotels and a stadium for minor league baseball. 
 The agreement follows 10 months of negotiations that have taken place since the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority selected the Xanadu project from a list of six original bidders.
The project is slated to rise in the shadow of Giants Stadium and around the current home of the New Jersey Nets and Devils at the Continental Arena, which will remain standing after Xanadu is completed.
The development is being built by a partnership of the Mills Corporation, a real estate investment trust based in Arlington, Va.; the office developer Mack-Cali Realty Corporation of New Jersey; and the KanAm Group, an investment company based in Munich. Construction could begin as early as next spring if the developers can quickly obtain environmental permits and other clearances from state agencies.
Progress on the Meadowlands project was swift compared with that on the proposed Newark arena that was to be the new home for the Devils and the Nets. The prospect of the two teams moving from the East Rutherford location prompted the state last year to start seeking alternative uses and economic development projects for the Meadowlands, to silence critics who saw Newark benefiting from state help and Bergen County losing out. But in the last six months the proposed $355 million Newark arena plan has foundered over disputes within the ownership group of the Devils and Nets, in which there is some question whether the teams will remain in New Jersey at all.
George R. Zoffinger, the president and chief executive of the state's sports authority, said that taxpayers and the region would benefit from the outcome of the Xanadu project. The $160 million will be immediately available to pay off the authority's debt on the Continental Arena and save taxpayers $90 million in future interest payments. He said the project would probably create 20,000 construction jobs at the site and 19,000 permanent jobs after the development's completion in six to eight years.
"Most importantly, it positions the region for greater economic expansion in the future," Mr. Zoffinger said. "As more people come here for entertainment, they will come from longer distances, fill up hotels and use other amenities in the region."
Officials project that the development will eventually provide $133 million annually in state and local taxes and that the developers will invest $65 million in road improvements.
Laurence C. Siegel, chairman and chief executive of the Mills Corporation, said that it was "a defining event for any real estate company" to have the opportunity to develop the site. Noting that the Meadowlands site is easily accessible to more than 20 million people in the region, near three sports venues and only minutes from the Lincoln Tunnel, he said it it had "huge advantages."
The signing of the deal capped a decadelong effort by Mills to locate in the region. That effort envisioned a mega-mall built on some 500 acres of environmentally sensitive wetlands near the current Xanadu site. In shifting its vision and allying with a partner last year to win the chance to develop the planned family entertainment complex, the company turned potential for controversy and defeat into a victory.
"It is somewhat fortuitous," Mr. Siegel said. "I guess good things happen to people who persevere and are patient."
One potential roadblock remaining is a pending lawsuit brought by Hartz Mountain Industries, a large office developer and one of the unsuccessful bidders for development rights at the site. Pretrial hearings on that lawsuit, which challenges the fairness of the selection process, are scheduled to begin next month.
Still undetermined is whether the Nets and the Devils will be playing at the Continental Arena in the next few years, said Mr. Zoffinger. Under the lease agreement, the Mills and Mack-Cali partners get first refusal on the arena site if it becomes available, and they would put a convention center there.
But Mr. Zoffinger said he was prepared to talk with the teams if they wanted to stay. He said he was also prepared to use some of the money realized from signing the lease with the Xanadu developers to make improvements in the arena if that would keep the teams in New Jersey.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An accord yesterday approved plans for Meadowlands Xanadu, to include indoor ski slopes, a surfing pool, a racing track and eventually a stadium for minor league baseball. Construction could begin next spring. (Photo by Mills Corporation)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); APPROVALS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (76%); BASEBALL (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (75%); RESTAURANTS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); SKIING (71%); FORMULA ONE RACING (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); EXECUTIVES (61%) Meadowlands Xandu Comlex; Restaurants; Stadiums and Arenas ; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Hotels and Motels; Labor; Taxation; Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: MACK-CALI REALTY CORP (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (83%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (56%); NEW JERSEY NETS (56%) Mills Corp; Mack-Cali Realty Corp; KanAm Group; New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority

TICKER: CLI (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (68%)

PERSON: Ronald Smothers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Jersey; East Rutherford (NJ); New Jersey; Meadowlands (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



115 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1600 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGE FOOTBALL; 
Academics and Athletics, Army's Way

BYLINE:  By BILL PENNINGTON

DATELINE: WEST POINT, N.Y., Dec. 2 

 BODY:
It was two minutes past 8 in the morning when Rob Davis, a sophomore Army football player, put down his pencil next to his physics exam. The test had asked him, for bonus points, to calculate the terminal speed of an object of a certain mass and cross-sectional area moving through a precise fluid of density due to a constant force of a specific magnitude.
 Davis's day had begun in predawn darkness, as wind blew snow across the gothic, gray stone garrison campus at the United States Military Academy. He rose early to clean his room for daily inspection -- making sure not just that his shoes were shined and aligned beneath a taut bed blanket but also that each of his six coat hangers was canted to the right and spaced equally apart. 
 He then stood at attention in formation outside the barracks before filing into the mess hall to eat breakfast with roughly 4,000 other West Point cadets. He also scrutinized the room of the freshman, or plebe, under his watch for lapses of academy protocol. He walked to physics, pausing to salute an officer or two along the way. 
His exam ended at exactly 08:02:47, a deadline written on the classroom blackboard by the instructor, Capt. Ronald Hasz.
At a time when the major college football environment seems awash in academic scandal and adrift in a sea of commercial semiprofessionalism, this is how Davis, a starter for a Division I-A football team, spent the first two hours of a typical 18-hour day.
Perhaps tellingly, Army is 0-12 this season. With a loss Saturday in the 103rd meeting of Army and Navy, the cadets from West Point could become the first National Collegiate Athletic Association football team to finish a season 0-13. Navy is 7-4 and headed for the Houston Bowl. The other service academy, Air Force, has a 7-5 record. Army searches for a first victory.
"I don't want anybody feeling sorry for us," Davis said. "We have the talent on our team to win and we will get things straightened out. But it is tough on a Thursday, which is a heavy academic workday around here, when I know my teammates have been up half the night finishing papers because they are often due on Fridays.
"And then we go play somebody like Temple, and they might not even have gone to class Thursday. Maybe they watched film of us all day. Well, I wish I had more time to watch film. Or sleep."
At many big-time football powers, the players have academic tutors, and even guides who assist and escort players with poor attendance records to their classes.
At West Point, missing one class without an excuse can bring a penalty of 10 hours' marching in the central area, in full regalia with one's rifle. Repeatedly missing class may yield an official disciplinary review.
"I wouldn't want it any other way; this is why we came here," Davis, a free safety and Army's fifth-leading tackler, said Tuesday. "We are counted on to maintain certain standards. I think that's why some people probably want us to win -- because we are doing it the hard way. That's not asking too much."
Tuesday was actually an easy day for Davis because a two-hour economics lab scheduled for the afternoon had been postponed. Still, by 11 a.m., besides formation, inspection and physics, he had attended a philosophy class -- the topic was "Just and Unjust Wars" -- and had taken notes furiously during a one-hour session with his calculus teacher. Military science instruction was next on the docket for Davis, who has a 3.6 grade point average this semester.
It was also his 20th birthday, something no one at the academy or around the football team seemed to know.
"Sir," Davis said to a visitor, smiling. "There is nothing to be gained by letting that get out. Not in this setting."
West Point cadets universally seem an engaged, vigorous lot, and their classes full of discussion, although the end of most sessions in Davis's schedule brought about an epidemic of yawning. Demerits are issued for falling asleep in class, so cadets are allowed to stand instead. It was not uncommon to have a handful standing in the final minutes of a class, which never numbered more than 18 cadets.
Davis remained awake, and seated, throughout the day, including a 25-minute film session with his defensive coach, which was arranged to take place in a tiny room six floors above the mess hall minutes after lunch. He then watched more film at the football complex, taking advantage of the postponed economics lab, though he did briefly interrupt that film study to nap.
Another 40-minute film session with coaches followed, preceding the two-hour practice set to start at 4 p.m.
Davis, who is from Charlotte, has moments when he ponders what life would be like if he had attended William and Mary or Wake Forest, institutions that either had expressed interest in him or had offered a full athletic scholarship.
"I'll be sitting in my room at 11:30 at night studying and one of my buddies from North Carolina will call me on my cellphone," Davis said. "They'll be out in some college bar having a good time. I can hear girls in the background. Obviously, that's not my life here. But you know, it makes me feel proud of myself.
"If I had gone somewhere else, I would be a football player. I'm a part of so much more here. I have a goal, a mission, and I'll leave with a profession."
Davis, upon graduation, will also leave with a five-year military commitment. Whenever a service academy football team suffers through a difficult season, and Army has lost 23 of its last 24 games and recently fired the head coach, Todd Berry, the postgraduate military commitment is usually blamed. It is difficult, everyone acknowledges, for the service academies to attract top high school players when they know they would have to, at best, postpone a professional career for five years.
Pete Dawkins was captain of the last undefeated Army team, in 1958, a season in which he also won the Heisman Trophy as the country's most outstanding player. Dawkins concedes that the N.F.L., which was just gaining legitimacy in 1958, has become a prominent factor in the fortunes of Army football.
"But we can still compete and win in Division I," Dawkins, who has had a long and successful military and business career, said in a telephone interview. "It is clear we can't compete with the football factories, the Ohio States and Oklahomas, but I totally reject the notion that the Military Academy should retreat to the Ivy League or Division II. West Point is a national institution and needs to play representative teams across the nation."
Dawkins does foresee strategic changes in the program. The academy will withdraw from Conference USA after 2004, ending a brief, bizarre association that linked Army to institutions it has little in common with, traditionally or academically.
Like Navy and Air Force, it is likely that Army will soon return to some variant of an option-run offensive system, a scheme that minimizes the academies' noted disadvantages: smaller players and players with less top-end speed.
"People rightly point out the disadvantages, but they sometimes forget the substantial advantages," Dawkins said. "We have players who are bright and disciplined. It should be the hallmark of every Army team that it has fewer penalties and mental errors than anyone. Army's special teams should be superior because special teams is an attitude. Army teams should also be the best-conditioned teams in the nation.
"There is another important advantage. At a lot of other institutions, the football program is an appendage bolted onto the outside of a hall. At West Point, aspiring to be a winner is part of the core values. Football is the heart and soul of the institution."
On the way to practice Tuesday, Davis called it the best part of his day, something else that might set him apart from most Division I football players. "I just love putting on that gold helmet and running out there where Glenn Davis and Doc Blanchard played or practiced," he said. "Especially this week."
This week is Navy week at West Point, which means bonfires, pep rallies and "Beat Navy" signs everywhere. Milk cartons, placed by the thousands on the hundreds of tables for 10 in the mess hall, are printed with these words: Go Army. Beat Navy.
Just before 5 p.m., it was bitterly cold as darkness descended outside Michie Stadium, Army's football home since 1924. Davis made a crunching tackle in a drill, cheered on by teammates. Shortly thereafter, a cannon fired a blank charge across the academy grounds by the Hudson River, the report echoing up the hill to the stadium.
The cannon signaled the nightly rite of retreat, when the American flag is lowered on the West Point plain. A bugler plays and everyone in the area stops, including those driving in cars. The cadets turn to salute.
By 7:30 p.m., Davis was back in his barracks beginning what he expected to be at least five hours of study. Earlier, he had discussed that morning's physics exam with an upperclassman.
"You know it's a tough test when a senior getting ready to graduate remembers everything about it," Davis said. "There is the West Point tradition everybody knows about and the traditions that are less known. But this is a special place. We are learning what have historically been very important lessons.
"You cannot separate the Army football tradition from that. You're not looking at Division I football the right way if you think Army doesn't belong in Division I football."
At West Point, on the plain outside the barracks, taps is played at 11:30 p.m. All cadets must be in their rooms. They are not required to switch off the lights. Cadet Rob Davis studied on.

GRAPHIC: Photos: 7:05 A.M. Davis, right, at breakfast. Milk cartons this week read: Go Army. Beat Navy.; 4:05 P.M. "I don't want anybody feeling sorry for us," Davis said. Army could be the first N.C.A.A. team to finish 0-13.; 12:55 P.M. His economics lab was canceled Tuesday, allowing Davis time for a nap.; 4:12 P.M. Rob Davis (34), a sophomore free safety, and his teammates practiced Tuesday at Michie Stadium for the 103rd Army-Navy game, set for Saturday in Philadelphia. (Photographs by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. D7); 6:50 A.M. By this time, Cadet Rob Davis had cleaned his room for inspection, down to the alignment of his hangers. Army accommodated a request for him to attend roll call in his football uniform.; 7:34 A.M. Before taking a physics exam, Davis and classmates reviewed answers to problems. (Photographs by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (92%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (73%); AIR FORCES (70%) Football; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (91%); WEST POINT ACADEMY (83%) United States Military Academy (West Point, NY)

PERSON: Bill Pennington

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



116 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Circuits; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: ONLINE DIARY 

BYLINE:  By Pamela LiCalzi O'Connell

 BODY:
Political Profiling
 Has campaign posturing got your head spinning even before the first primary? A variety of Web sites can help you find where you fit on the political spectrum and even which presidential candidate best matches your views. But browser beware: Some sites may be biased. 
 American Choices (americanchoices.org) was created by a nonpartisan group, e-thepeople.org, that encourages civic participation through the Internet. The site's 12 questions force you to consider the tradeoffs facing United States foreign policy makers (should we support free trade even with undemocratic countries?). It then identifies your foreign policy priorities and where you stand on a sliding scale between, say, respecting human rights and national sovereignty. 
 A more specialized site, www.fantasyworldorder.com, sponsored by the relief organization Oxfam International and the leftist magazine New Statesman among others, poses 15 questions to help you parse your position on globalization (liberator, protector, protester, regulator, skeptic). According to results posted on the site, a majority of users find out they are protesters -- that is, they believe globalization exploits the poor -- even though most initially defined themselves otherwise. 
 Political Compass (politicalcompass.org), a project by Wayne Brittenden, a political journalist in London, asks you to agree or disagree with 61 propositions on social and political topics. 
 Your answers place you on a compass on which the east-west axis represents tendencies from the left to the right on economic issues and the north-south axis represents social tendencies ranging from authoritarian to libertarian. 
 Special compasses show where some world leaders and current American presidential candidates fit in, with results sure to befuddle campaign managers across the nation. 
 SelectSmart's 2004 American Presidential Candidate Selector (selectsmart.com/president) goes the farthest: it actually tells you which candidate best matches your views based on your answers to 17 policy questions.
 I was matched with a candidate I detest, so I'll just have to retake the test until it comes up with a more palatable politician.

Truth Tellers
 Most teenagers are crucially interested in what their peers think of them. That explains the appeal of Blunt Truth (blunttruthgame.com). 
 This site lets you create a survey about yourself that your friends can take anonymously. "The point is to find out what other people really think about you," said Aaron Zod of Doylestown, Pa., the site's 23-year-old founder. 
 You can select up to 20 questions from a list of 70, many of them having to do with appearance ("How nice is my hair?") and personal attributes. The site then provides you with the survey's Web address to share with friends. Most do so by including it in their Instant Messenger profiles.
 There are 345,000 active users, Mr. Zod said, and more than five million surveys have been created. According to Nielsen/NetRatings, Blunt Truth was among the top 10 most popular site among users ages 12 to 17 in the United States in September and October, even though it does not advertise.
 Mr. Zod said that 70 percent of the site's users were female and that a growing number -- 20 percent -- were college students. The most popular questions users chose included "How intelligent am I?," "Can I keep a secret?" and "Am I popular?" Those picked least include "Am I honest?" and "Do I talk too much?" 
 Carly Ackerman, an 18-year-old freshman at Towson University in Maryland, created her first Blunt Truth survey last spring. Asking for an assessment from peers might seem like looking for trouble. But Ms. Ackerman disagreed. "It's a real self-esteem booster," she said. "Most teenagers go through rough times, and it's cool to see what people really think of you."

Places to Go
 There are many Web sites about real places, but few that offer a "place experience," according to Curtis C. Roseman, a professor of geography at the University of Southern California.
 Dr. Roseman is co-editor of Places OnLine (placesonline.org), a site sponsored by the Association of American Geographers that aims to list the best "place based" Web pages. Among the criteria for inclusion are original content and effective use of images, particularly maps. "These are sites that make you feel you are there," Dr. Roseman said.
 Places Online has about 1,000 listings but should still be considered a nascent project, according to the site's other co-editor, Tom Hankins, professor of information systems at Marshall University in South Charleston, W.Va. There are no listings yet for Russia, for instance. Besides geographical diversity, Places Online also seeks topical diversity. While many of the sites it lists approach place from a historical perspective (like the pictorial history of Fargo, N.D., found at www.fargo-history.com), others focus on ecology, tourism and personal experience.
 Still, one aspect remains fuzzy: What is a place? "We didn't want to define what a place is because we didn't want to constrain the scope of the site," Dr. Roseman said. "A place is a spot on a map." He added, "Certainly a neighborhood would qualify, and we do consider something as big as a country as a place in some contexts."

On the Radar
 The "mundane routine" of Philadelphia commuters is transformed into music at sonatafortheunaware.com. The Foreign Groceries Museum (www.portigal.com/Museum.htm) reveals the cultural differences inherent in food packaging. I only wish I could get Japan's "Crispy Curry Pringles." Just in time for the holidays, the Virtual Dreidel (spinthedreidel.com) pits you against a team of cartoon children in a cutthroat match of the spinning top game.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Ron Barrett) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); INSTANT MESSAGING (73%); LIBERAL MEDIA (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (68%); WRITERS (68%); GEOGRAPHY (59%) Presidential Election of 2004; Computers and the Internet; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: OXFAM INTERNATIONAL (56%) Association of American Geographers

PERSON: Pamela Licalzi O'Connell

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



117 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S NEXT; 
With Roadside Data, Better Forecast for Snow Removal

BYLINE:  By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
IOWA, like many states, once had a system for dispatching highway snowplows and salt trucks that had an obvious shortcoming.
 "We would wait until we received a phone call from the sheriff's department or local police saying that they've got a lot of cars in the ditch," said Dennis Burkheimer, the winter operations administrator for the Iowa Department of Transportation. 
 Fortunately for the state's motorists, the road-clearing system has long since evolved. Today 53 supervisors weigh a variety of factors and try to begin clearing and salting highways before snow and ice become a menace.
 Last winter, however, three of those supervisors went one step further. They tested a prototype software system that combines data from specially created weather forecasts, readings from roadside weather stations as well as in-road sensors to recommend when the trucks should be dispatched. The system even tosses in advice on how the drivers should do their jobs. 
 Iowa is running a second round of tests on an improved version of the system this winter. But Mr. Burkheimer said the software, formally known as the Winter Road Maintenance Decision Support System, had already shown that it might reduce costs, increase road safety and limit environmental damage from salt and other chemicals.
 "It's a work in progress," Mr. Burkheimer said. "But the supervisors felt that it had some great potential."
 The weather forecasting system in the United States has long catered to the needs of airplane pilots. But that same level of attention has not been given to road and other surface transportation users, despite their greater numbers and higher accident rates, said William P. Mahoney III, a project manager at the National Center for Atmospheric Research who is supervising the development of the road-clearing software.
 "The United States is way, way behind Japan and Northern Europe," he said. "The amount of goods and services that move across the country means that the weather impact to travel is a big economic hit."
 For road crews, one problem with most weather forecasting is its scope. Mr. Mahoney said that local National Weather Service forecasts for non-urban areas generally cover a large territory -- a square that is about 40 miles on each side. Highway maintenance crews, however, need an accurate forecast for about 10 to 15 miles of road, the typical length of a snowplow's run. "To get down to that we're absolutely pushing the envelope," Mr. Mahoney said.
 The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which runs the weather service and is a participant in the highway project, is using more powerful computers to create more finely detailed forecasts.
 But meeting the needs of road crews has also involved gathering more localized weather and road condition data. That task has fallen to miniature roadside weather stations that can provide information like the pavement's temperature and whether it is wet or dry. Mr. Mahoney estimates that there are 2,000 of these roadside stations in the United States, including 51 in Iowa.
 The devices are more common in some other countries. In Canada, for example, the government announced plans in late August to join roadside weather stations along highways into a nationwide network. But some cities also use them along local roads to help with municipal road clearing.
 "The regular weather forecast only gives you air temperature," said Luc Marineau, an operations engineer for the City of Ottawa, which has 10 stations of varying capabilities. "But the key to winter maintenance operations is pavement temperature."
 All of Ottawa's stations give pavement temperature, and embedded sensors also indicate the state of the road surface -- indicating, for example, if the pavement is dry or covered with a slush that contains ice-melting chemicals.
 Environment Canada, the government agency responsible for weather forecasting, uses data from the stations to create pavement temperature forecasts for Ottawa. If the forecasts indicate that the road surface temperature is likely to stay above freezing during a light snowstorm, for example, Mr. Marineau said, the city's salt trucks will stay parked. Conversely, if the forecast predicts falling road surface temperatures while pavement sensors show that melted ice has diluted salt that was applied earlier, clearing crews are quickly dispatched. 
 Iowa's test project is more ambitious. To further refine the accuracy of its forecasts, data about the characteristics of individual roads and their surroundings are included in the software model. "National scale models are not going to know where there's a low spot in a road," Mr. Mahoney said.
 The test system does more than just provide a forecast. It also make recommendations on the most effective road-clearing treatments for different weather situations, down to the rate at which trucks should apply salt or other de-icing chemicals.
 The advice feature may get around a growing problem for some states. As experienced employees retire, many state highway departments are losing snowplowing and ice-clearing expertise, Mr. Mahoney said. At the same time, he added, "a lot of new plow drivers see the job only as a temporary one" and develop few skills.
 During last winter's test, Mr. Burkheimer said, his dispatchers often disagreed with the salting and sanding recommendations of the software. For this winter's tests, those suggestions have been revised partly with advice from Iowa's crews.
 But like most people, Mr. Burkheimer still has a common lament. With the system so dependent on accurate information, he said, "the weather forecasting needs improvement."
 Two factors seem to have caused unexpected problems last year. The National Weather Service, Mr. Burkheimer said, generally doesn't pay much attention to very light rain or snowfall. "But once you put a layer of ice crystals on a highway, you need to go out and treat it," he said.
 The researchers also were surprised by the great inaccuracy of snowfall measurements by the weather service. At one point, Mr. Burkheimer said, researchers measured 13 inches of snow in Des Moines, but a weather service measuring device reported that the snow had "zero liquid equivalent."
 "It surprises me that nobody has been yelling and screaming about this for years," Mr. Burkheimer said.
 Iowa is only a beginning test for the road-clearing software -- and perhaps an easy one at that. After further refinement, the system will undergo trials in a mountainous state. 
 "When you have roads snaking through different altitudes and in and out of the sun and canyons, there are special challenges," Mr. Burkheimer said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Mary Ann Smith) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROAD TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (90%); WEATHER (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); WEATHER SENSORS (89%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (78%); SHERIFFS (77%); METEOROLOGY (75%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (75%); DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEMS (74%); POLICE FORCES (72%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (71%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (69%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (52%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (51%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (50%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%) Weather; Roads and Traffic

COMPANY: DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEMS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: Ian Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



118 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 2295 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy movies playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film. Ratings and running times are in parentheses.

Now Playing

* "BAD SANTA," starring Billy Bob Thornton and Tony Cox. Directed by Terry Zwigoff (R, 95 minutes). Somebody needed to make a comedy built around all of the holiday season hostility that goes up along with the decorations this time of year. Mr. Zwigoff and the screenwriters Glenn Ficarra and John Requa are just the guys for such a task. "Bad Santa" takes all of the Christmas season's bad vibes and converts them into an achingly funny and corrupt dark comedy. Mr. Thornton is Willie T. Stokes, a burned-out, hard-drinking safecracker who's annually roused from sleeping one off during the most wonderful time of the year by his dwarf partner, Marcus (Mr. Cox). As Marcus works as a department store elf, he also cases the store so that he and Willie can break in and relieve the joint of valuable merchandise. On this tour, they've ended up in Phoenix, which just adds to the wealth of hilarious incongruity. As a director, Mr. Zwigoff has a taste for finding the dramatic power of self-loathing and making it entertainment. His previous films -- the documentary "Crumb" and his fiction-film debut, "Ghost World" -- both hinged on coping with epic tides of depression. "Santa" falls directly into that lineage. Willie is filled with the most distorted kind of narcissism imaginable, and for Mr. Thornton, it functions as a kind of star chemistry. Willie ladles it generously on the kids who line up to see him on his wobbly perch on Santa's throne: he's the kind of minimum-wage jackal who has sent his victims on to thousands of hours of therapy (Elvis Mitchell).

* "BARBARIAN INVASIONS," starring Remy Girard. Directed by Denys Arcand (R, 99 minutes). Mr. Arcand reassembles many of the same lustful, left-wing French Canadian intellectuals who populated "Decline of the American Empire," his 1986 comedy of intellectual grandiosity and sexual duplicity. This time, the bawdy talk and political banter is shadowed by mortality and by the rueful awareness that history has had the last laugh. Remy (Mr. Girard) is dying of cancer, and his friends, former lovers and estranged wife gather around his death bed for a long, sentimental seminar replete with naughty jokes and wistful nostalgia. Joining them are two members of the younger generation -- Remy's son, Sebastien, a wealthy international banker, and Nathalie, a heroin addict -- who lack both the bravado and the narcissism of their parents. What makes this more than a facile study in generational conflict is Mr. Arcand's acute sense of history: he has made the cultural contradictions of global capitalism into the material of a heartfelt domestic drama that is also a broad, accessible and devilishly funny sex farce (A. O. Scott).

"THE COOLER," starring William H. Macy, Maria Bello and Alec Baldwin. Directed by Wayne Kramer (R, 103 minutes). Mr. Macy plays Jerry Lootz, a man so thoroughly unlucky that he is the cause of bad luck in others. In hock to a slick, thuggish casino manager (Mr. Baldwin), Jerry works as a cooler, foiling the winning streaks of customers whose good fortune threatens the house's take. His own luck begins to change when a cocktail waitress named Natalie (Ms. Bello) takes him to bed, and then falls in love with him in spite of herself. The setting -- Las Vegas with its sleazy, lowlife glamour -- feels a bit tired, and the story is hokey, but Mr. Kramer, making his feature debut as a director, reins in his gimmicky instincts enough to allow the skill of the actors to shine through the drab indie-noir conventions. Mr. Baldwin plays his villainous role with subdued relish, and Mr. Macy and Ms. Bello settle comfortably into their characters, giving them an appealing, lived-in glow (Scott).

"DR. SEUSS' THE CAT IN THE HAT," starring Mike Myers, Alec Baldwin, Kelly Preston, Dakota Fanning and Spencer Breslin. Directed by Bo Welch (PG, 78 minutes). It is fun to have fun, but you have to know how. This vulgar, unimaginative adaptation of Dr. Seuss's first "I Can Read" book is a compendium of how not to. Mr. Myers, as the anarchic feline, has the manner of a Borscht Belt comedian telling toilet jokes, and he helps to drag a great work of literature through a sewer of pandering, cynicism and crude sentimentality. Mr. Breslin and Ms. Fanning, as the two children whose dreary day at home is disrupted by the cat, are smart young actors, but they have little to do besides stand around and gawk, and then learn valuable lessons at the end. Parents tempted to expose their children to this bottom-feeding attempt to cash in on Dr. Seuss's reputation should heed the advice of the skeptical fish: "Make that cat go away! Tell that cat in the hat you do not want to play" (Scott).

"HAUNTED MANSION," starring Eddie Murphy. Directed by Rob Minkoff (PG, 98 minutes). This Disney fright comedy, with Mr. Murphy in another of his put-upon dad roles, is an anomaly -- no frights and no laughs. The price of the popcorn-and-drink combo at most theaters running this film is scarier. The titular entity is occupied by a ghost, Edward Gracey (Nathaniel Parker), who took his own life centuries ago in response to his lady love's suicide. Years later, the real estate agent Jim Evers (Mr. Murphy) is summoned to Gracey Manor with his wife, Sara (Marsha Thomason); tough-girl daughter, Megan (Aree Davis); and son, Michael (Marc John Jeffries). And the breathtaking Sara has an amazing resemblance to the late lady of the manor. "Mansion" is a movie that doesn't really want to evoke reaction; it lacks even the cheesy fear quotient that a film like "Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy" could dredge up. And Mr. Murphy is left to fall back on his mechanical sketch version of displaying terror, which makes the picture seem even more insubstantial (Mitchell).

* "IN AMERICA," starring Samantha Morton and Paddy Considine. Directed by Jim Sheridan (PG-13, 103 minutes). Many of the elements in this picture about an Irish family living in New York -- picturesque poverty; an angelic, doomed black man; a dead child; a pair of cute, precocious daughters; a risky pregnancy toward the end -- seem to promise a sticky bath of shameless sentimentality. But instead, thanks to Mr. Sheridan's graceful, scrupulously sincere direction and the dry intelligence of his cast, "In America" is likely to pierce the defenses of all but the most dogmatically cynical viewers. The film, which Mr. Sheridan wrote with two of his daughters, is unabashedly personal, but he is too modest a filmmaker to turn his own experience into a lesson or a parable. From moment to moment, as it follows Johnny and Sarah Sullivan (Mr. Considine and Ms. Morton, both quietly terrific) through their daily struggles, the story feels small, almost anecdotal. But just as its tactful realism is adorned with a dusting of magic, its unassuming clarity hides an unexpected grandeur. It is the kind of movie that keeps growing in your mind long after you've seen it, and its characters are so radiantly particular that they come, after a while, to seem like people you know (Scott).

* "MASTER AND COMMANDER: THE FAR SIDE OF THE WORLD," starring Russell Crowe and Paul Bettany. Directed by Peter Weir (PG-13, 140 minutes). This stupendously entertaining movie, adapted from two of the novels in Patrick O'Brian's 20-volume maritime adventure series, celebrates an idea of England that might have seemed a bit corny even in 1805, when the action takes place, but that is brought to vibrant life thanks to Mr. Crowe's commanding performance and Mr. Weir's thoroughgoing mastery. Mr. Crowe plays Jack Aubrey, captain of the H.M.S. Surprise, a British frigate doing battle with a mysterious French battleship off South America. The combat scenes are shot with economy and vigor, but the most thrilling parts of the movie take place between skirmishes, when the complex system of authority and deference that runs the Surprise -- and the personality traits needed to keep it running -- is at the center of attention. The film's theme is the nature of authority, and Aubrey functions as a kind of ideal executive: charismatic, tactically astute and able to instill in his sailors a sense of discipline and respect. Mr. Bettany plays the ship's surgeon, Aubrey's best friend and foil, and the tension between them -- between reason and duty, between intellect and action -- gives the movie some unexpected dramatic depth (Scott).

"THE MISSING," starring Tommy Lee Jones, Cate Blanchett and Evan Rachel Wood. Directed by Ron Howard (R, 115 minutes). Apparently the only thing tougher than endurance on the frontier is sitting through a movie about endurance on the frontier. At least, that's the point "The Missing" is determined to make. Amazingly, what it also seems to be saying is that nearly 50 years after John Ford's 1956 film "The Searchers," we've arrived at a point in which the movie industry can only offer a less sophisticated version of the same material. Overly sensitive and disdainful of her tough life, Lilly (Ms. Wood) longs to escape the grim cabin she shares with her mother, Maggie (Ms. Blanchett), a healer, and little sister, Dot (Jenna Boyd). Lilly gets away from home in a way she never bargained for: she is kidnapped by renegade Indians who plan to sell her once they cross the border into Mexico. Just before Lilly is snatched away, Maggie's estranged father (Mr. Jones) returns home: there's already tension in the household. When the worst happens, Maggie is forced to team with her father to track down her daughter. But "The Missing" leaves out the sexual paranoia that John Wayne's face reflected in "The Searchers"; he was eaten alive by the possibility that his abducted niece had become sexually involved with her captors. Despite torrents of brutality, there's no danger of rape from the scrupulous villains in "The Missing." As a result, this is a movie that exists only from the shoulders up (Mitchell).

"TIMELINE," starring Paul Walker and Frances O'Connor. Directed by Richard Donner (PG-13, 116 minutes). This clumsy, wooden screen adaptation of Michael Crichton's novel "Timeline" suggests a particularly wretched episode of "Star Trek." A fantasy of time travel in which a group of contemporary archaeologists plunges through a wormhole in the time-space continuum to land in France in 1357, the movie pounds you over the head with its noisy and ridiculous notions of medieval life. The expedition is dispatched to retrieve a distinguished professor who got stuck in the past and left an S O S., which his protege discovers on a dig. When the movie's interminable battle scenes between the French and the English pause, two pairs of cardboard lovebirds grab the chance to steal a smooch. But the movie doesn't have a genuinely human moment (Stephen Holden).

* "THE TRIPLETS OF BELLEVILLE," with the voices of Jean-Claude Donda, Michel Robin and Monica Viegas. Written and directed by Sylvain Chomet (PG-13, 80 minutes). Mr. Chomet's ravishingly weird animated feature unfolds in a universe of sheer impossibility, where size, proportion and balance are ruled by the whims of the director's perverse pen and his peculiar imagination. Although that imagination has evidently been fed by sources as various as Betty Boop, Jacques Tati and European comic books, its products are too strange to be assimilated into any known tradition. The plot is too bizarre for summary, but it involves the efforts of a diminutive, club-footed grandmother to rescue her grandson, a Tour de France cyclist, from the clutches of the French mafia. Aiding her are her faithful dog, Bruno, and the triplets of the title, a trio of weird sisters who subsist on a diet of frogs and who make entrancing music with kitchen appliances and old newspapers. "The Triplets" is a similar collage of the found and the invented. Its style evokes a postwar France making its stubborn, eccentric way into the modern world -- a nation of cigarette-rolling truck drivers and accordion-squeezing pop singers. It is surely the oddest movie of the year -- by turns sweet and sinister, insouciant and grotesque, invitingly funny and forbiddingly dark. It may also, by dint of Mr. Chomet's sheer inventiveness, be one of the best (Scott).

* "21 GRAMS," starring Sean Penn, Naomi Watts and Benicio Del Torro. Directed by Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu (R, 125 minutes). This new melodrama by the Mexican director is a ruminative, stunned look at life after death -- that is, the existence of the living after they have been devastated by loss. The stars achieve something that doesn't sound possible: a virtuosity in the depiction of people wasting away minute by minute. Prof. Paul Rivers (Mr. Penn) is suffering from a damaged heart, and the transplant he receives so consumes him with guilt that he's like a death-row prisoner with a horrible secret who has been pardoned. Cristina (Ms. Watts), a reformed party girl, has returned to her fallen ways after taking up with Paul; she has lost her family in an auto accident. And Jack (Mr. Del Toro) is a shaggy, trembling mountain of anger he can barely contain. His already tenuous grasp on sobriety is slipping away even faster since he was involved in a terrible incident. Working with the screenwriter Guillermo Arriaga and the cinematographer Rodrigo Prieto -- the team he assembled for his debut feature, "Amores Perros" -- Mr. Gonzalez Inarritu once again deals with three scenarios connected by one far-reaching cataclysm. It's too early to call it a crowning work of a career -- this is only his second film -- but it may well be the crowning work of this year (Mitchell).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Billy Bob Thornton, left, and Tony Cox, right, in the comedy "Bad Santa," directed by Terry Zwigoff. (Photo by Tracy Bennett/Dimension Films); From left, Sarah Bolger, Paddy Considine and Emma Bolger as Irish immigrants in "In America." (Photo by Barry Wetcher/Fox Searchlight) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); WRITERS (70%); RETAILERS (67%); HEROIN (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



119 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: HAVENS; 
A Farmland Showcase For Modern Architecture

BYLINE:  By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

 BODY:
IT must have been 1964 or 1968 when I first visited Columbus, Ind., which no less a personage than Lady Bird Johnson called "the Athens of the prairie."
 I went there with Nelson A. Rockefeller while covering one of his two campaigns for the Republican presidential nomination, whose political futility was offset, for me at least, by their aesthetic benefits. There was an early-morning tour of the superb Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, for example, conducted by its benefactor, Seymour H. Knox Jr., and a weekend stroll through the unheralded Joslyn Art Museum in Omaha. One slow afternoon Rockefeller showed me some of the fine pictures and sculptures in his New York apartment. 
 Where there was art and architecture of quality to be seen, Rockefeller went to see it. Which is how we happened to find ourselves in Columbus, a city of 39,000 set in the cornfields an hour's drive south of Indianapolis. Columbus was and is the home of J. Irwin Miller, now 94, a remarkable businessman, political and social activist, amateur musician, philanthropist (and pal of Rockefeller). Besides building his family's company, Cummins Inc., into a multibillion-dollar manufacturer of diesel engines and generators, Mr. Miller made Columbus -- remote little Columbus -- into a Mecca of modern architecture, on a par with Chicago, Brasilia or any other metropolis. 
Thanks to the Cummins Foundation, which has paid the architectural fees for dozens of civic enterprises, Columbus boasts a library by I. M. Pei, who reinvented the Louvre; a hospital by Robert A. M. Stern; a posterlike fire station by Robert Venturi; a post office by Kevin Roche; a mall by Cesar Pelli; and a school by Richard Meier, the designer of the Getty Center in Los Angeles.
You know this is a different kind of place as soon as you leave Interstate 65. The Columbus interchange itself, dominated by a twin-ribbed steel arch, is distinctive, as is a bold, single-pylon suspension bridge across the White River between the interchange and the city center. Both are painted bright red.
As you stroll through the low-built downtown or drive through the trim, quiet residential areas, preferably with the architectural map published by the Columbus Visitors Center in hand, buildings with distinguished pedigrees pop up at almost every turn. Most are successes; a few are masterpieces.
The foundation, which has paid $15.8 million over the years in design fees, does not subsidize churches. But such is the public pride created by its work that many congregations have used their own funds to commission buildings by the likes of Eero Saarinen and Harry Weese. In Columbus, nobody wants to build an eyesore; surrounded by world-class architecture, it would stand out, as the Prince of Wales once said in another context, "like a monstrous carbuncle."
Most cities of any size have a municipal golf course, and so does Columbus. But thanks to Cummins money, Columbus has an 18-hole layout designed by Robert Trent Jones, architect of championship courses around the country, not by some journeyman, and a 9-hole addition by his son, Rees. Mr. Weese, a local favorite from Chicago, did the clubhouse, and Dan Kiley, the noted landscape architect, embellished the rolling grounds with lindens and other native trees.
"We would like to see the community come to be not the cheapest community," Mr. Miller said in a speech dedicating the golf course project in 1964, "but the very best community of its size in the country. 
"No such community can be built without citizens determined to make their community best; without city government which works boldly, ahead of its problems, and not always struggling to catch up, and without money sufficient to get the job done. We are happy to pay our share, whether in work, or in taxes, or in gifts like this one."
More than 25,000 visitors a year come to spend the night in a local hotel, like the Columbus Inn, housed in the Romanesque former city hall, and see what the architects have wrought. Another 25,000 people visit on day trips.
The architectural program has given the city not only a modest national reputation but also an excellent set of facilities that have made it a regional business center. Both help companies like Cummins attract and keep employees. "It's not a panacea," said Will Miller, chairman of the Irwin Financial Corporation and a son of J. Irwin Miller. "We still have economic issues. But it's very clearly contributed to keeping the town a lot healthier than others like it."
It was the desire of the First Christian Church of Columbus for a new building that gave birth to contemporary architecture in the city. The building committee first chose a specialist in the neo-Gothic style to design it, but he suffered a nervous breakdown, so the committee sought a replacement. Eliel Saarinen, who had won world renown with the Helsinki railway station before settling in Michigan as director of the Cranbrook Academy of Art, submitted an uncompromisingly modern plan.
"Mr. Saarinen is probably going to build a building I won't like much personally," said Will Miller's grandmother, a committee member, "but it will be a great building. Therefore we should build it." They did, finishing in 1942.
The church, geometric in design, built mainly of buff-colored brick and sparely ornamented, consists of a large rectangular sanctuary and a 166-foot bell tower. It is a Scandinavian version of an Italian village church. The simple, dignified interior, finished in blond wood, sometimes bent into Aalto-esque curves, is flooded with natural light by day and illuminated by hanging, helmet-shaped fixtures at night. "The Sermon on the Mount," a tapestry designed by Saarinen's wife, Loja, hangs on the west wall of the sanctuary.
Two of the great designers of the postwar era, then young men, helped on the project -- Eero Saarinen, Eliel's son, and Charles Eames from California. 
T HE city's second indisputably great church is Eero Saarinen's North Christian Church (1964), the last building he designed before his death at the age of 51. A low roof, whose six trusses echo the shape of the Star of David, rises from an earth mound surrounding it, and a slender 192-foot spire emerges from it, as Christianity emerged from Judaism. Flower stands and a Tree of Life banner are the work of Alexander Girard, the famed textile designer.
Like the Dulles International Airport terminal near Washington, another Saarinen masterwork, the North Christian Church immediately seizes even the casual onlooker's eye with its dramatic shape and carries it heavenward.
Eero Saarinen also designed the Irwin Union Bank, and his proteges, Kevin Roche (a Pritzker Prize winner himself) and John Dinkeloo, have left their mark all over town. They renovated an old house to serve as the visitors center (it holds two glass sculptures by Dale Chihuly, among many other exhibits), the only post office in the United States whose design was paid for with private funds, and several Cummins buildings. Another member of the Saarinen professional "family," Gunnar Birkerts, designed the copper-spired St. Peter's Lutheran Church in 1988, following his innovative Lincoln Elementary School in 1967.
Building more and better schools after World War II provided the initial impulse for the Cummins subsidy program. Designing them attracted not only Mr. Birkerts but also Mr. Weese, Edward Larrabee Barnes, Mitchell-Giurgola, Paul Kennon, Eliot Noyes, Charles Gwathmey and John Carl Warnecke to the Indiana flatlands. James Stewart Polshek, architect of the Rose Center in Manhattan, did a mental health center in Columbus; William Rawn, architect of Ozawa Hall at Tanglewood in the Berkshires, did a branch firehouse.
No Frank Lloyd Wright, Mies van der Rohe or Louis Kahn, true; "we always wanted to get young architects," Will Miller told me, "so we would get the full focus of their abilities." It would be nice to see something by Antoine Predock or Ricardo Legorreta, and Philip Johnson, Michael Graves and Frank Gehry would certainly be welcome, too. But theirs are among the few major names missing from this most concentrated group of top-flight modern buildings in the country.

SIGHTSEEING
Design Buffs Are Welcome
IF you go to Columbus, you can stay at the Columbus Inn (445 Fifth Street, 812-378-4289) or at one of several local motels. The Columbus Area Visitors Center (506 Fifth Steet, 812-378-2622; www.columbus.in.us) has a list of these and other useful information.
For lunch in town, have a superior grilled ham and cheese sandwich and a hand-squeezed orangeade at Zaharako's Confectionery (329 Washington Street, 812-379-9329), an old-fashioned soda fountain with a stamped tin ceiling and a working pipe organ. For dinner, one recommendation is the 18-ounce rib-eye at Smith's Row Food and Spirits (418 Fourth Street, 812-373-9382).

GRAPHIC: Photos: ENTERING ART -- The Second Street Bridge in design-conscious Columbus, Ind. (Photo by Tom Strattman for The New York Times)(pg. F1); CIVIC PRIDE -- The First Christian Church, left, finished in 1942, kicked off the building spree with its design by Eliel Saarinen. (It is framed by a Henry Moore sculpture.) Above, the North Christian Church of 1964 by Saarinen's son, Eero, with its thin spire.; LATER WORKS -- Gunnar Birkerts, a member of the Saarinen professional "family," designed the Lincoln Elementary School, completed in 1967. Among the city's buildings are a fire station by Robert Venturi, a hospital by Robert A. M. Stern and a library by I. M. Pei. (Photographs by Tom Strattman for The New York Times)(pg. F3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIESEL ENGINE MFG (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CHARITIES (76%); SCULPTURE (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); GOLF (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%) ARCHITECTURE; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: CUMMINS INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: CUMMINS INC 

TICKER: CMI (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (83%)

PERSON: PRINCE CHARLES (50%) MILLER, J IRWIN; APPLE, R W JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (72%) INDIANA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%) COLUMBUS (IND); INDIANA

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



120 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 57 words

HEADLINE: Correction: Phone Subscribers in China And Central Bank Interest Rates 

 BODY:
 Because of a production error, two charts on Monday in the special Outlook issue of Business Day -- one showing the number of cellphone and fixed-line subscribers in China and the other showing central bank interest rates for Britain, the European Union and the United States -- carried incorrect scales. Corrected versions appear below.

GRAPHIC: Charts Graph tracks phone subscribers in China with fixed-line phones and mobile phones, measured in millions, from 1993 and through projected 2007. *Includes low-range cordless phones that allow roaming within a small town but not to other cities. (Sources by Ministry of Information Industry; BDA China) Graph tracks Central bank interest rates for Britain, United States, and European Union since 2001. (Sources by Federal Reserve; European Central Bank; Bank of England)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (86%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CORRECTION STORIES 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); CHINA (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) CHINA; GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



121 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Fly Me to L 1 

BYLINE:  By Buzz Aldrin; Buzz Aldrin, an astronaut on the Apollo XI moon mission, is chairman of Starcraft Boosters, which develops reusable booster rockets for spacecraft.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
For the last 24 hours, news reports have been soaring into orbit that President Bush and NASA are busy preparing their vision for the future of America's space program -- and that this vision may involve sending astronauts back to the moon, and perhaps establishing some sort of permanent base there. I applaud the instinct, but I think that a moon shot alone seems more like reaching for past glory than striving for new triumphs. 
 Instead, I think the next step in our space program should be to create a floating launching pad for manned and unmanned missions to the Moon, Mars and beyond. This is not a task for the unfinished International Space Station, which is intended to be a floating laboratory rather than a bridge to the heavens. 
 A much more practical destination than the moon or the space station is a region of space called L 1, which is more than two-thirds of the way to the moon and is where the gravity fields between the Earth and Moon are in balance. Setting up a space port there would offer a highly stable platform from which spacecraft could head toward near-Earth asteroids, the lunar surface, the moons of Mars and wherever else mankind decides to travel. 
Unlike the Moon and the International Space Station, which is in low-earth orbit, L 1 is not the site of strong gravitational pulls, meaning that spacecraft can leave there without using much energy. Thus L 1 would be the most sensible position for a base that would function as a test area and way-point for robotic flights as well as a support station and safe haven for human exploration of the solar system. 
It would also be relatively cheap, at least in terms of space travel. To create a port at L 1 we can use the building methods that have already proved successful for Skylab and the International Space Station -- and we can probably get it up and running for $10 billion to $15 billion, significantly less than the International Space Station, which will likely exceed $100 billion in the end. We can also save money by shifting away from using the space shuttle as the transport vehicle and by developing a new, more flexible launch vehicle and crew module to get people and cargo up to the L 1 port.
Unfortunately, NASA's work on future vehicles -- including the much-ballyhooed "orbital space plane" -- has stalled since the disaster with the Shuttle Columbia. And even before then, the agency had been focusing on the wrong sort of craft: one limited to transporting four astronauts at a time with little or no cargo-carrying capability. Such a craft would essentially be duplicating what the Russian Soyuz craft already does adequately: bringing several astronauts up and back from a space station, but little else. Moreover, NASA's "Supersized Soyuz" approach focuses only on serving the International Space Station, rather than working toward a more expansive vision.
There are better ways to invest our money in a new craft. One that would be relatively quick and easy would be to keep what works in the current space transportation system -- the rocket boosters, external tank and trained staff -- and combine them with new elements. The tanks and boosters we now use will soon be predictable and safe, as a part of NASA's post-Columbia efforts. And if we stick with them, no new buildings or untested ground-transportation methods would need to be built. 
The big change would be to replace the aging shuttle orbiter with a new crew module that would hold perhaps eight or more astronauts, and build a so-called heavy-lift vehicle, capable of carrying cargo, that would attach behind the module. This craft would be capable of variable crew and cargo configurations. The crew module would need built-in escape and rescue capabilities for the people aboard. The early version might have to make parachute or parafoil landings in the ocean, although eventually it should be modified to make runway landings. 
Over time, more powerful engines and reusable rocket boosters could be added to make possible sending even larger payloads and more passengers into space at a lower cost per person and per pound. But the important thing for the president to think about at this point is the long-term future of space flight and for NASA to pursue all avenues, big and small, to come up with the best plan. 
Unfortunately, NASA has limited its $135 million orbital space plane development contracts to a few giants: proposals by Boeing, Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman. As a result, the space agency has shut the door on the smaller, entrepreneurial companies that are responsible for some of the most innovative current thinking on space technology. The farther reaching scope of an L 1 effort calls for collaboration and competition -- two qualities that should be part of the cultural change NASA pledged to undertake after loss of the Columbia. 
In addition, NASA might even look at a new competitor as a possible partner. The modernized, Soyuz-like manned capsule that China sent into orbit in October is potentially safer and seems technologically more robust than the Russian version. Working jointly with China would not only fill a needed gap when America's agreement with Russia on using Soyuz runs out in 2006, but it would also make a potentially important political alliance. China and America are on the verge of a new space race -- with economic competition expected from Japan, Europe and perhaps India -- and it is better to start off with cooperation than with confrontation. 
The tragedy of the Columbia, combined with China's successful launch, have put NASA at a crossroads. America's continued leadership in space depends on decisions made now. President Bush should realize that the first step is a bold new vision from the top.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Thomas Fuchs) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); SPACE STATIONS (92%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE SHUTTLE (89%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (68%) SPACE; MOON; MARS (PLANET); EARTH; INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION; SPACE STATIONS; ASTEROIDS; GRAVITATION AND GRAVITY 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (59%) NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION 

PERSON: ALDRIN, BUZZ 

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH'S MOON (96%); EARTH (92%); MARS (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



122 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Investor Fight To Control Air Canada Goes to Court 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
One of Asia's wealthiest families has locked horns with a New York investment fund over Air Canada, in a dispute that is as much a clash of Canadian and American business styles as a disagreement over a deal. 
 Air Canada, which has operated under the supervision of bankruptcy court since April, is expected to ask an Ontario Superior Court judge on Dec. 8 to approve an agreement that would make Trinity Time Investments the airline's largest shareholder. Trinity, controlled by Victor Li, son of the Hong Kong magnate Li Ka-shing, would acquire 31 percent of the airline's equity for 650 million Canadian dollars ($500 million). 
 Air Canada struck the deal with Mr. Li on Nov. 8 after setting aside a competing bid from Cerberus Capital Management, a private equity fund that specializes in distressed companies. 
 Undaunted, Cerberus came back two weeks later with offers to acquire either 12 percent or 27 percent of Air Canada. Only the broad outlines of the two new offers have been made public so far, but they appear to be much more favorable to the airlines' creditors than Trinity's. 
 The Cerberus offers would give the creditors the right to buy up to 850 million Canadian dollars' worth of shares in a restructured Air Canada, almost twice the amount proposed by Mr. Li. Several major creditors are expected to join Cerberus in opposing the Trinity deal in court on Dec. 8.
 Comparing the styles of the two sides, Douglas Reid, an aviation specialist at Queen's University business school in Kingston, Ontario, said that "Li has essentially played within the rules," while Cerberus has taken a more aggressive and more typically American approach, which he summed up as, "If you don't win the first time, change the law and try a second time." 
 Trinity said Cerberus's new offers were "improper interference." Calls to Cerberus and its Canadian lawyers were not returned.
 Air Canada carries about two-thirds of Canada's air passenger traffic and operates far more routes to American cities than any other foreign carrier. Its international route network is profitable, but it has had serious trouble making money at home, even after buying its biggest domestic competitor, Canadian Airlines International, in 2001.
 Overall traffic has been depressed by the slump in travel after the Sept. 11 terror attacks, the cooling of the North American economy and, most recently, by the outbreak of the SARS virus in Asia and Canada. And competition and cost pressure from newer rivals like WestJet of Calgary and Jetsgo of Montreal are growing. 
 Though it posted a small operating profit in the third quarter, Air Canada had a net loss of 263 million Canadian dollars ($202 million) in the period, in contrast to a profit of 125 million Canadian dollars in the third quarter of 2002. 
 The original bids from Trinity and Cerberus offered similar financial terms, but Air Canada said that the Trinity offer had the advantage of "lower closing risk." Unlike the Cerberus principals, Mr. Li is a Canadian citizen, immune from a rule that limits foreign ownership of an airline to a 25 percent stake. 
 Air Canada said that it also stood to gain more new business opportunities from a link with the sprawling Li family interests than with an equity fund like Cerberus.
 It was not clear from the documents submitted to the bankruptcy court how Canada's 25 percent limitation on foreign ownership would affect Cerberus's higher alternative offer for 27 percent of Air Canada.
 The "intangibles of relationships and reputations" played a role in Air Canada's decision, said Karl Moore, a professor of management at McGill University in Montreal who follows the airline. Mr. Moore said that Cerberus made itself no friends earlier this year when it bought control of Teleglobe, an international phone carrier spun off from BCE, which like Air Canada is based in Montreal. Cerberus initially offered $155.3 million for Teleglobe, but later dropped its bid to $125 million. 
 On the other hand, some Air Canada creditors and employees have expressed disquiet about a "golden handcuffs" provision in the Trinity offer that would grant 1 percent of the airline apiece to Robert Milton, the airline's chief executive, and to Calin Rovinescu, who has led the restructuring. 
 The grants, to be spread over four years, are valued at about 21 million Canadian dollars for each executive. 
 Cerberus initially proposed similar stock grants, but its revised offer instead includes cash bonuses of undisclosed value.
 While Mr. Reid at Queen's University generally praised the Air Canada restructuring process, he said that "suffering by senior management is conspicuous by its absence."
 Peter Foster, an official at the Air Canada Pilots Association, said that while the union had not taken a formal position on the proposed payouts to Mr. Milton and Mr. Rovinescu, "a lot of individuals have looked at it with annoyance."
 Even if the Trinity deal is approved in court next week, the door will remain open for Cerberus to press ahead with offers. The airline has the right to terminate the Trinity agreement if it decides to pursue an unsolicited alternative proposal.
 But John Evans, a lawyer at Osler Hoskin & Harcourt in Toronto, which represents Trinity, said court approval would allow Mr. Li to start negotiations with other parties involved in the restructuring. It would also entitle Trinity to a breakup fee of 19.5 million Canadian dollars, Mr. Evans said, in the event that Air Canada ends up in Cerberus's arms instead.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Victor Li, a Canadian with Hong Kong money, is trying to acquire a 31 percent stake in Air Canada. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (76%); ACQUISITIONS (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); LAWYERS (73%); JUDGES (72%); APPROVALS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (63%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (62%); CITY LIFE (61%); TERRORISM (60%); VIRUSES (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); SARS (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: ACE AVIATION HOLDINGS INC (92%); AIR CANADA (92%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (56%); CANADIAN AIRLINES INTERNATIONAL LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AIR CANADA; TRINITY TIME INVESTMENTS; CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 

TICKER: AC.A (TSX) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

PERSON: LI, VICTOR T K; LI KA-SHING 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); QUEBEC, CANADA (78%); ALBERTA, CANADA (73%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (90%); ASIA (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



123 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: New Unemployment Claims Rise, but Slightly 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing first-time applications for state unemployment benefits rose to 365,000 last week, the government said yesterday, holding close to an almost three-year low.
 Applications for jobless insurance benefits were up from 354,000 a week earlier, in part because of adjustments for Thanksgiving, the Labor Department said. An average of 411,000 people filed claims each week in the first 10 months of the year, reaching a low of 353,000 in late October. 
 "Generally claims have been improving, so I wouldn't be too concerned about one week's figure," said Adrienne Warren, senior economist at Scotia Capital in Toronto. "The job market is improving and the economy will see some strong growth into next year. That will cause profits to improve and lead to more hiring."
 Mounting order backlogs and lengthening delivery times have prompted some companies to slow the pace of layoffs and others to increase hiring.
 Economists had expected that new claims would rise to 354,000, from the 351,000 initially reported for the week earlier. 
 Last week's seasonally adjusted number of claims included Thanksgiving Day. "Historical seasonal factors have a more difficult time measuring holiday periods," said Tom Stengle, a spokesman at the Labor Department. Mr. Stengle said claims tended to be volatile around these periods.
 The claims are close to the October low, which was the smallest number of weekly jobless claims since January 2001, the month that President Bush took office. The four-week moving average of new claims, a less volatile indicator, rose to 362,500 last week from 359,500, which was the lowest since February 2001.
 The number of people continuing to collect state jobless benefits rose to 3.385 million in the week that ended Nov. 22, from 3.341 million a week earlier. The four-week average declined to 3.419 million, the lowest since February, from 3.442 million.
 The insured employment rate, which tends to track the jobless rate, rose to 2.7 percent in the week ended Nov. 22, from a revised 2.6 percent.
 The Labor Department said that 47 states and territories reported an increase in new claims and 6 reported a decrease. This information is reported with a one-week lag. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (94%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); THANKSGIVING (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (69%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



124 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Leap: Good News for Jobs, but Maybe Not for Investors 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
THE stock market came alive just over a year ago, and now its virtue as a forecasting tool is being confirmed by a surge in American manufacturing.
 That is good news for employment. Chances are that the jobs number reported today will be very good. Next month's seems almost certain to be impressive. 
 Whether it is also good news for investors is not, however, so clear. Such surges in manufacturing tend to come a little before stock market investors get a nasty shock.
 The good news this week was that the Institute for Supply Management reported that its manufacturing index leaped to 62.8 in November. That index is supposed to measure the rate of change in manufacturing from month to month, not the level of activity itself. A reading above 50 means growth; one above 60 indicates a real surge.
 Readings above 60, or below 40, are rare. But when they happen, they can signal a stock market reversal. The most recent dip below 40 came in January 1991, just as stocks began to soar. In the last 25 years, there were two moves above 60 after a sustained period of lackluster activity. Each arrived, as did the current one, after stocks had already been rising for about a year. 
 The first such move came in July 1983. The stock market had hit bottom the previous August in the midst of a severe recession. The next one came in September 1987, a year after the stock market had accelerated after an economic slowdown during which businesses sharply cut investment, although a recession was averted because consumers kept spending.
 The months after those surges were good ones in which to seek a job. But the stock market booms turned to declines, with the strongest stocks from the market's previous rise suffering the most in the decline.
Nearly all stocks rose in the 1982-83 market, but the biggest move came in small technology stocks with a stake in the hot personal computer business.
 Speculation grew intense. In June 1983, an initial public offering by Eagle Computer had to be withdrawn after its founder died in a sports car crash the night of the offering. When the shares were reoffered days later, investors valued them higher than they had when the boss was alive.
 That boom topped out in the summer of 1983. Many speculative favorites, like Eagle, vanished within a few years. But even high-quality companies lost market favor. Seven years later, Intel was worth less than its 1983 peak.
 In 1987, stocks hit their highs in August, fell a bit in September and then crashed in October. That crash proved to have little effect on the economy, and most share prices came back within a couple of years. But the trauma at the time was intense.
 There are similarities to those markets now, although the strongest ones are to the period leading up to the 1987 manufacturing spurt. In the mid-1980's, American manufacturing was badly hurt by a soaring dollar that reflected foreign capital flows to the United States. Much the same thing happened in 1999 and 2000, although the attraction for capital had changed from high interest rates in the 1980's to a soaring stock market in 2000. By the time manufacturing began to show strength, the dollar had been sliding for more than two years in each instance. 
 There are differences, of course. The dollar had fallen farther from its high in 1987 than it has now. Share prices were at record highs in 1983 and 1987, while most large stocks now remain well below their bubblicious peaks.
 But the lesson of history remains. The best time to buy stocks is often before, not after, it becomes clear that the manufacturing sector is recovering.

GRAPHIC: Chart:Performance of the S.&P. 500 before and after manufacturers' index rises past 60. JULY 1983PREVIOUS 14 MONTHS: +45.3%NEXT 10 MONTHS: -7.4% SEPT. 1987PREVIOUS 14 MONTHS: +36.3%NEXT 10 MONTHS: -15.5% NOV. 2003PREVIOUS 14 MONTHS: +29.8%NEXT 10 MONTHS: -- 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); BONDS (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (68%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; STOCKS AND BONDS; HIRING AND PROMOTION 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (71%); INTEL CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



125 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 4; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 96 words

HEADLINE: Greatest Hits, Live Albums And Compilations; 
"CRUNK AND DISORDERLY"

BYLINE:  By KELEFA SANNEH 

 BODY:
 (TVT). This new compilation of Southern hip-hop includes a few of the year's rowdiest Christmas songs. 
Atlanta's Ying Yang Twins contribute a merry, foul-mouthed track called "Ho! Ho!," and their fellow Atlantan Killer Mike snarls through "A Christmas Grind," his tribute to "Carol of the Bells." 
But no one tops the unpredictable David Banner: in "It's Christmas Time (Jingle Bells)," the holiday spirit does battle with unemployment and desperation; at the end, a kid gets lots of presents but asks, "Hey, Daddy, what's all that blood doing on your shirt?" KELEFA SANNEH

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (86%) MUSIC; REVIEWS; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); CHRISTMAS 

PERSON: SANNEH, KELEFA

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



126 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: The Mistaken Arab Experience 

BYLINE:  By Michael Young; Michael Young is a contributing editor at Reason magazine and opinion editor of The Daily Star newspaper in Lebanon, where a version of this article originally appeared.

DATELINE: BEIRUT 

 BODY:
Even before the ink dried on the Geneva Accord, signed on Monday by self-appointed Israeli and Palestinian negotiators, enemies on both sides of the regional divide were united in their antipathy toward what is, after all, just a virtual agreement.
 Among other things, the plan calls for the creation of a Palestinian state. That the initiative should have provoked such anger, but also interest, highlights a deeper problem in the Arab world: for all its centrality to the Arab experience during the past half-century, and for all the justifiable grievances it has aroused, the Palestinian fight for self-determination has, in many respects, rendered the Arab world impotent. Through overriding attention to the fate of their Palestinian brethren, Arabs -- whether consciously or not -- have sacrificed much-needed political, social and economic advancement in other domains. 
 Nowhere was this better illustrated than in the reaction of many Arabs to President Bush's recent speech before the National Endowment for Democracy. The president declared that the United States had for too long backed autocratic regimes in the Middle East, and outlined a vision for the future where, presumably, this would be forsaken. Yet here in the region, the prevailing reaction to the speech, both from intellectuals and others who have spent decades blaming the United States for precisely the behavior Mr. Bush condemned, was resentment, as if it were preferable to disown the president than to make him practice what he preached.
The main justification for the derision was the fate of the Palestinians. "How can President Bush be sincere on democracy," went the standard reaction, "when he allows Israel to abuse the Palestinians?" The question was fair, but those asking it missed a pivotal opportunity: it is far more profitable for Mr. Bush's Arab critics to demand that his administration fulfill its pledges, and use this as leverage to bring about Palestinian (and Iraqi) self-determination and democracy, than to fall back on perennial doubt. However, this would mean engaging the United States without malice, which many in the Arab world simply cannot bring themselves to do.
The Palestinian problem has also allowed countless Arab regimes, particularly those in states near Israel, to validate despotism in their overmilitarized societies. Some might argue this was and is needed to face down real or potential Israeli threats, but the explanation is unsatisfactory. For one thing, open societies usually equal or surpass dictatorships in defending themselves. For another, Arab societies have accepted autocratic regimes not because of imminent danger from Israel, but because the Palestinian problem remains unresolved.
In other words, the open wound of the Palestinian tragedy has allowed Arab regimes to transform outrage on the part of their people into tolerance for authoritarian, security-obsessed societies that are perceived as necessary to fight (even if they never do fight) a militarily superior Israel. 
At the same time, a majority of Arab states has refused to normalize relations with Israel until the Palestinian issue is resolved. While Arab public opinion would accept nothing less, on ethical grounds, this means the Palestinian issue and public support for it have stifled contravening policies that states might otherwise contemplate pursuing in their national interest. In effect, Palestine, far more than raison d'etat, has come to define how Arab states approach Israel. 
Yet, how could governments behave otherwise in a region where Palestine has become a benchmark for justice and the definition of injustice? That Egypt and Jordan managed to make peace with Israel says much more about the specific circumstances in which their respective agreements were concluded than about any ambient Arab readiness to break ranks on a comprehensive settlement.
Specific Arab states have also paid a heavy price for the sanctity of the Palestinian struggle -- none more so than my own country, Lebanon. It has been twice deprived: first, in the 1970's, when it was prevented by its Arab counterparts from defending against the encroachment of the Palestinian national movement, which used the country as a base of operations against Israel; and second, at present, because the region's fixation on the Palestinians has taken the spotlight away from Syria's open-ended military presence in Lebanon, which began in 1976. 
To invite the Arab world to look beyond the problem of the Palestinians is hardly incitement to abandon their cause, a move that in any case is neither sensible nor morally acceptable. However, the prism of 1948, when the Palestinians were dispossessed, has distorted so many things in the Middle East that it is with little imagination that Arab states and societies tend to address such fundamental issues as democracy, sovereignty, the perils of overmilitarization, relations with the United States and, even, the optimal pursuit of national interests. 
In reaffirming the value of such issues and playing down the importance of the Palestinian predicament with respect to how it affects them, Arabs would not only help themselves, but also the very people whose sad destiny they cannot seem to quite shake off. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); POLITICS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%) PALESTINIANS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%) YOUNG, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) ISRAEL; MIDDLE EAST

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



127 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Looting The Future 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
One thing you have to say about George W. Bush: he's got a great sense of humor. At a recent fund-raiser, according to The Associated Press, he described eliminating weapons of mass destruction from Iraq and ensuring the solvency of Medicare as some of his administration's accomplishments. 
 Then came the punch line: "I came to this office to solve problems and not pass them on to future presidents and future generations." He must have had them rolling in the aisles. 
 In the early months of the Bush administration, one often heard that "the grown-ups are back in charge." But if being a grown-up means planning for the future -- in fact, if it means anything beyond marital fidelity -- then this is the least grown-up administration in American history. It governs like there's no tomorrow.
Nothing in our national experience prepared us for the spectacle of a government launching a war, increasing farm subsidies and establishing an expensive new Medicare entitlement -- and not only failing to come up with a plan to pay for all this spending in the face of budget deficits, but cutting taxes at the same time. 
Recent good economic news doesn't change the verdict. These aren't temporary measures aimed at getting the economy back on its feet; they're permanent drains on the budget. Serious estimates show a long-term budget gap, even with a recovery, of at least 25 percent of federal spending. That is, the federal government -- including Medicare, which Mr. Bush has given new responsibilities without new resources -- is nowhere near solvent.
Then there's international trade policy. Here's how the steel story looks from Europe: the administration imposed an illegal tariff for domestic political reasons, then changed its mind when threatened with retaliatory tariffs focused on likely swing states. So the U.S. has squandered its credibility: it is now seen as a nation that honors promises only when it's politically convenient.
What really makes me wonder whether this republic can be saved, however, is the downward spiral in governance, the hijacking of public policy by private interests.
The new Medicare bill is a huge subsidy for drug and insurance companies, coupled with a small benefit for retirees. In comparison, the energy bill -- which stalled last month, but will come back -- has a sort of purity: it barely even pretends to be anything other than corporate welfare. Did you hear about the subsidy that will help Shreveport get its first Hooters restaurant?
And it's not just legislation: hardly a day goes by without an administrative decision that just happens to confer huge benefits on favored corporations, at the public's expense. For example, last month the Internal Revenue Service dropped its efforts to crack down on the synfuel tax break -- a famously abused measure that was supposed to encourage the production of alternative fuels, but has ended up giving companies billions in tax credits for spraying coal with a bit of diesel oil. The I.R.S. denies charges by Bill Henck, one of its own lawyers, that it buckled under political pressure. Coincidentally, according to The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Henck has suddenly found himself among the tiny minority of taxpayers facing an I.R.S. audit.
Awhile back, George Akerlof, the Nobel laureate in economics, described what's happening to public policy as "a form of looting." Some scoffed at the time, but now even publications like The Economist, which has consistently made excuses for the administration, are sounding the alarm.
To be fair, the looting is a partly bipartisan affair. More than a few Democrats threw their support behind the Medicare bill, the energy bill or both. But the Bush administration and the Republican leadership in Congress are leading the looting party. What are they thinking?
The prevailing theory among grown-up Republicans -- yes, they still exist -- seems to be that Mr. Bush is simply doing whatever it takes to win the next election. After that, he'll put the political operatives in their place, bring in the policy experts and finally get down to the business of running the country. 
But I think they're in denial. Everything we know suggests that Mr. Bush's people have given as little thought to running America after the election as they gave to running Iraq after the fall of Baghdad. And they will have no idea what to do when things fall apart. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (87%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (86%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); TERRORISM (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HISTORY (68%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (68%); TAX AUTHORITIES (66%); INSURANCE (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); RESTAURANTS (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; TERRORISM; AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; MEDICARE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE AND MANAGED CARE 

COMPANY: HOOTERS OF AMERICA INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



128 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: A REGION INFLAMED: THE RECONSTRUCTION; 
At U.S. Meeting, Iraq Appears Open for Business

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va., Dec. 4 

 BODY:
The room had the feel of a souk, a constant buzz, chatter in lots of languages, display tables showing off wares. 
 In fact, it was a marketplace of sorts, just off the lobby of a Sheraton hotel here, but one with a specific purpose: more than 400 people from 30 countries had gathered Wednesday and Thursday for a conference focusing on how to rebuild Iraq and get a piece of the $18.3 billion Congress has authorized for the effort. 
 There were bankers, architects, lawyers, engineers, real estate developers, insurance agents, construction specialists, transportation experts, communication company owners, investment counselors and more than 40 Iraqi officials working with the Coalition Provisional Authority, who were eager to meet as many suitors as possible. 
If the participants conveyed a common message it was this: despite suicide bombers, snipers and attacks from Saddam Hussein loyalists, Iraq is open for business. 
There were sobering reminders of the daily dangers that confront both military personnel and civilians, including one company selling vehicle armor protection and another selling walls so strong that they could withstand .50-caliber bullets. "We're working on one now that will be able to sustain a shoulder-fired rocket attack," said Prentice Perry, vice president of the wall company, Therma Steel. The company motto, he said, is, "We stand behind our walls." 
But for the most part, the networking was upbeat, as business and government leaders sought each other out as potential partners in the enormous task of reconstructing the country. 
"Our purpose is to help United States companies connect with Middle Eastern countries and with individual Iraqis with lots of emphasis on the alliances already on the ground," said Samir Farajallah, president of New Fields, the United Arab Emirates company that organized this meeting and another one last month. "You hear a lot of negative stories out of Iraq, but the truth of the matter is, there are a lot of very successful stories." 
As the ranking Iraqi participating in the conference, Sami al-Maajoun, the minister of labor and social affairs, said he was "very encouraged" by American and British efforts to engage in rebuilding. 
So far, the efforts have grown out of an initial round of contracts between the United States and large multinational corporations like Bechtel and Halliburton, to take on big-ticket items like safeguarding oil fields, paving roads and rebuilding schools. 
In marked contrast to the openness of the meeting this week, those contracts were often awarded without competitive bidding in a process that has been criticized as being inscrutable to outsiders. 
Now, Mr. Maajoun said, Iraq is ready for many more partners. 
"Iraqis are crying out for employment," he said. "We want to rebuild. Construction means jobs that will bring Iraq back to the situation it should have been in as far as its own wealth is concerned." 
The efforts promise to be anything but easy, complicated by developments on the ground and evolving laws arising from an evolving government. While large projects require direct participation and approval by the United States government, smaller ones may not, and the distinctions are not always clear. 
"We explain how the processes work -- or not work -- and give some idea of how they may work in the future," said Bill Espinosa of Pillsbury Winthrop, a law firm represented at the conference that does extensive work in international development. "We've seen a lot of interest in Iraq, but there is also a lot of frustration involved in a significant way." 
One source of that frustration, said Sam Kubba, chief executive of the American Iraqi Chamber of Commerce, are the competing views of how Iraq should achieve self-rule. The Iraqi Governing Council, appointed by the provisional authority, agreed in a vote Sunday that full national elections sought by Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, Iraq's senior Shiite cleric, would be the best way to choose an interim government. The council established a committee to examine whether it was feasible to organize full elections for June.
Mr. Kubba, whose organization of American Iraqi businessmen was set up this year in Washington, called their differences a potential disincentive to future investment, making them "a very serious conflict that holds serious consequences if not resolved." 
Still, the uncertain electoral, financial and military landscape did not seem to discourage dozens of those attending the conference from pursuing their goals. 
Nick Katsiotis, vice president of a construction company based in Washington, is bidding on two housing projects of 504 units each, one in Mosul and the other in Kirkuk. 
Gordon Bobbitt, marketing manager for Kalmar, a Swedish company, was trying to sell huge all-terrain vehicles that can transport shipping crates anywhere. 
Igor Salaru, owner of the Brazilian company Icatel, the world's largest manufacturer of pay phones, was seeking Iraqi connections to develop a new system of public phones. 
Then there was Hisham Ashkouri, an Iraqi-born architect now living in Boston, who wore a bright red bow tie and carried a case filled with brochures and CD's that show off his latest design -- a soaring 31-story hotel and theater complex called Cinema Sinbad that he wants to build in downtown Baghdad. 
He said he was "80 to 90 percent there" with financial backing, government support and a commercial sponsor, the Starwood Hotel and Resorts Company. 
"There's always room for problems," he said. "But with my emotional side speaking, if something like this can become a big part of reconstructing Baghdad that can show the local population alternatives to violence and disruption, to me, that's why we're going ahead. That's why I'm working on it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Simmons, center, attended a two-day conference in Arlington, Va., with others interested in pursuing business projects in Iraq. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LOBBYING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (75%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); POLITICS (74%); INSURANCE (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); SHOOTINGS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); CIVIL WAR (72%); TRENDS (70%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (61%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (55%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (55%); ARMED FORCES (53%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (71%) JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) IRAQ; ARLINGTON (VA)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



129 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: Fleeing Cuba, Hoping to Soar On New Stage 

BYLINE:  By MIRTA OJITO 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
Before dawn on Oct. 12, Cervilio Amador and Gema Diaz, Cuban ballet dancers on tour, grabbed their backpacks and walked briskly through the lobby of their Daytona Beach hotel. Between them, they carried 16 pairs of ballet shoes, several videos of their work and $1,000.
 A few blocks from the hotel they hailed a cab, which drove them to West Palm Beach. There they flagged down another taxi. 
 "To Calle Ocho," Mr. Amador remembers saying, hoping the man would know where that was. He did. 
Neither Mr. Amador or Ms. Diaz had ever been to Calle Ocho, or Eighth Street, but they knew it was the heart of the Cuban exile community in Miami. On Calle Ocho, they reasoned, they would be safe. In less than 72 hours they found a lawyer to help them seek political asylum, a place to stay (the apartment of Ms. Diaz's cousin) and a dance studio. 
Ms. Diaz, 21, and Mr. Amador, 20, were the first dancers to defect during the Ballet Nacional de Cuba's American tour. Three more -- Adiarys Almeida, Violet Serrat and Luis Valdes -- defected a week later in New York. They join a growing group of talented Cubans, from surgeons to baseball players to musicians, who, every year, leave their homeland in search of better lives. 
In Miami, Cuban defectors are portrayed as heroes who risk their lives to escape Fidel Castro's government. In Havana, they are depicted as ungrateful fools.
"They are like kites that one builds carefully with rods and strings and paper," Alicia Alonso, the 82-year-old former prima ballerina who directs the Ballet Nacional de Cuba, said last month, referring to the five dancers. "Then you launch them into flight, and suddenly they break loose from the cord. It is sad how they fool themselves." 
All but one of the defectors, Ms. Serrat, who could not be reached, said that the truth lies somewhere between the highly political interpretations of Miami and Cuba. They left, they said, for professional reasons, to have the opportunity to dance elsewhere. But economics and politics weighed heavily in their choice to abandon Cuba and the dance company, which they describe in terms similar to those often used for the country itself: financially strapped, losing its best people and controlled by an aging leader unwilling to yield power to younger generations.
Since November of last year, they said, a total of 20 dancers have defected in Mexico, Spain, the Dominican Republic and, now, the United States. The troupe had about 90 dancers before the defections.
The company and the government have taken steps to stop the exodus. The dancers described a summer meeting in which Abel Prieto, the culture minister, announced that the ministry was considering allowing some dancers to work with foreign companies, which would give them international exposure. 
For those thinking of defecting, though, Mr. Prieto issued a dictate: defectors would not be allowed to return to Cuba for five years. 
"Even if he had said 15 years, that was not going to stop me from leaving when the time was right," Mr. Valdes, 22, said in a telephone interview from Philadelphia. "This is a very difficult step, but we understand we have no choice." 
The need to leave Cuba crystallized for Mr. Valdes this summer, he said. After returning from a tour in Spain, he went to Varadero Beach, a resort east of Havana. While there, he said, he could not rent a scooter because they were available only to foreign tourists. Embarrassed and frustrated, he asked a Cuban-American from Miami, who happened to be at the same resort, to rent the scooter for him.
"There I am, a Cuban, a worker, from a good, responsible family, and I can't rent a scooter in my own country," Mr. Valdes said, suddenly angry, his voice rising at the memory. "And this man from Miami, who maybe left in a raft the year before, gets to do whatever he wants in Cuba and he is treated as a senor. I knew, then, it was time to leave."
For years the highly regarded Cuban ballet company has been touted as an achievement of the government. Ms. Alonso and members of American Ballet Theater founded the troupe in 1948, but when Mr. Castro came to power in 1959, Ms. Alonso, an international star, declared her admiration for his revolution, and a partnership was born. She has never publicly wavered in her support. He, in turn, has backed the ballet financially and endorsed it by his presence at countless functions. 
But despite the privileged status of Ms. Alonso and her troupe, its dancers are not immune to the scarcities in Cuba or to the capriciousness of its political system. Like most people living in Cuba, ballet dancers pedal their bicycles to work or take crowded public buses. They buy food on the black market and some, when it rains hard, must place buckets on the floors of their houses to catch the water dripping from leaking roofs.
Mr. Valdes and the others complained bitterly about the double life dancers lead while on tour abroad: in the evening they are glamorous figures entertaining ballet aficionados all over the world, while during the day they are scurrying about whatever city they happen to be in, buying goods, like American videos, to resell in Cuba. They also go hungry at times to save part of the daily government stipend -- $30 to $50 -- to take home to Cuba. 
Though their salaries were high by Cuban standards, the equivalent of $14 to $18 a month, the defectors said that was not enough to make a living. A leotard, not provided by the government, could cost $10 on the black market; men's tights, about $30. Aware of her dancers' needs, Ms. Alonso gives them $10 each as a monthly bonus. Also, some dancers live in government-subsidized apartments, for which they pay the equivalent of about 50 cents a month.
Ms. Diaz and Mr. Amador smirked when told of Ms. Alonso's comments. Mr. Amador, who sometimes danced as a soloist despite his youth, said that he felt he had paid his debt to the Cuban ballet for his training with what the government calls social service, a two-year period during which he earned about $6 a month. 
"We know that life here is difficult," Mr. Amador said. "But it can't be more difficult than in Cuba. Here we have opportunities to grow and advance in our careers and choose the company where we want to work." 
In Cuba, he said, his opportunity to travel, to grow professionally and to earn a higher salary depended solely on the will of Ms. Alonso, who is nearly blind and who needs to be told by her assistants about her dancers' abilities or weaknesses, he said. The dancers' potential international exposure is also hampered by Ms. Alonso's reluctance to allow dancers to sign contracts with other companies outside of Cuba, despite the intentions of the culture ministry, Mr. Amador said.
Ms. Almeida, 20, said that she had been content with the opportunities for growth she was offered by the company. Though she was a recent graduate, she was sometimes cast as a soloist, she said. 
"I'm thankful for what they taught me," said Ms. Almeida, who lives in Miami Beach with her boyfriend, a rental-car agent who left Cuba a year earlier. "But I don't agree with the idea that if you create something, it has to do what you say, it has to bend to your every whim. I want to have the freedom to control my career and my future."
The four dancers seem poised to begin the second acts of their careers. Although they cannot be employed until they obtain work permits or become legal residents of the United States, they will be performing in "The Nutcracker" this season on various stages, beginning on Saturday when Ms. Almeida dances with the South Florida Ballet Theater in Hollywood. The next weekend, Ms. Diaz and Mr. Amador will appear with the Arts Ballet Theater of Florida in Miami. Mr. Valdes is to dance the role of the prince with the Rock School for Dance Education in Philadelphia. They will be performing for the first time as independent, free artists. The feeling, Mr. Amador said, is exhilarating.
"Some people said, 'Wait, don't go,' but what am I going to wait for? We've been waiting for almost 45 years," he said, referring to the years Mr. Castro has been in power. "I didn't want to wake up one day, realize that I was 40, and then wonder why I didn't jump when I had the chance."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cervilio Amador, left, and Gema Diaz practicing in Miami. (Photo by Cindy Karp for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Gema Diaz, left, and Cervilio Amador, have found Cuban coffee in the Little Havana section of Miami, above, and roles in "The Nutcracker." (Photo by Cindy Karp for The New York Times)(pg. A36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCERS (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); BALLET (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); DANCE (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); REFUGEES (74%); IMMIGRATION (73%); POLITICS (73%); DANCE EDUCATION (73%); MUSIC (73%); TRENDS (71%); BASEBALL (65%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DANCING; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ASYLUM (POLITICAL); FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: BALLET NACIONAL DE CUBA 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (58%) OJITO, MIRTA; AMADOR, CERVILIO; DIAZ, GEMA; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); SPAIN (92%) CUBA; MIAMI (FLA); NEW YORK CITY; MEXICO; SPAIN; DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



130 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1776 words

HEADLINE: Hospitals Say They're Penalized By Medicare for Improving Care 

BYLINE:  By REED ABELSON 

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY 

 BODY:
By better educating doctors about the most effective pneumonia treatments, Intermountain Health Care, a network of 21 hospitals in Utah and Idaho, says it saves at least 70 lives a year. By giving the right drugs at discharge time to more people with congestive heart failure, Intermountain saves another 300 lives annually and prevents almost 600 additional hospital stays.
 But under Medicare, none of these good deeds go unpunished. 
 Intermountain says its initiatives have cost it millions of dollars in lost hospital admissions and lower Medicare reimbursements. In the mid-90's, for example, it made an average profit of 9 percent treating pneumonia patients; now, delivering better care, it loses an average of several hundred dollars on each case. 
 "The health care system is perverse," said a frustrated Dr. Brent C. James, who leads Intermountain's efforts to improve quality. "The payments are perverse. It pays us to harm patients, and it punishes us when we don't." 
 Intermountain's doctors and executives are in a swelling vanguard of critics who say that Medicare's payment system is fundamentally flawed. 
Medicare, the nation's largest purchaser of health care, pays hospitals and doctors a fixed sum to treat a specific diagnosis or perform a given procedure, regardless of the quality of care they provide. Those who work to improve care are not paid extra, and poor care is frequently rewarded, because it creates the need for more procedures and services.
The Medicare legislation that President Bush is expected to sign on Monday calls for studies and a few pilot programs on quality improvement, but experts say that it does little to reverse financial disincentives to improving care.
 "Right now, Medicare's payment system is at best neutral and, in some cases, negative, in terms of quality -- we think that is an untenable situation," said Glenn M. Hackbarth, the chairman of the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, an independent panel of economists, health care executives and doctors that advises Congress on such issues as access to care, quality and what to pay health care providers. 
 In a letter published in the current edition of Health Affairs, a scholarly journal, more than a dozen health care experts, including several former top Medicare officials, urged the program to take the lead in overhauling payment systems so that they reward good care. 
 "Despite a few initial successes, the inertia of the health system could easily overwhelm nascent efforts to raise average performance levels out of mediocrity," they wrote. "Decisive change will occur only when Medicare, with the full support of the administration and Congress, creates financial incentives that promote pursuit of improved quality."
 Medicare's top official is quick to agree that the payment system needs to be fixed. "It's one of the fundamental problems Medicare faces," said Thomas A. Scully, who as the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has encouraged better care by such steps as publicizing data about the quality of nursing home and home-health care and by experimenting with programs to reward hospitals for their efforts. 
 But the steps taken so far have been small, and many experts say that rather than paying for more studies, Congress should start making significant changes to the way doctors and hospitals are paid.
 "They're splashing at the shallow end of the pool," said Dr. Arnold Milstein, a consultant for Mercer Human Resource Consulting and the medical director for the Pacific Business Group on Health, an association of large California employers. He would like to see as much as 20 percent of what Medicare pays doctors and hospitals linked to the quality of the care they provide and their efficiency in delivering treatment. 
 Two decades ago, Medicare led a revolution in health care. By setting fixed payments for various kinds of treatment -- a coronary bypass or curing a case of pneumonia or replacing a hip -- rather than simply reimbursing doctors and hospitals for whatever it cost to deliver the care, it encouraged shorter hospital stays and less-expensive treatments. 
 But today, many health care executives say, Medicare's payment system hinders attempts to improve care. Dr. James, the Intermountain executive, said that he wrestled with the situation every day. 
 By making sure its doctors prescribe the most effective antibiotic for pneumonia patients, for example, and thereby avoiding complications, Intermountain forgoes roughly $1 million a year in Medicare payments, he estimated. When a pneumonia patient deteriorates so badly that the patient needs a ventilator, Intermountain collects about $19,000, compared with $5,000 for a typical pneumonia case. And while it makes money treating the sicker patient, Dr. James said, it loses money caring for the healthier one. 
 Nor is Intermountain rewarded for sparing someone a stay in the hospital -- and for sparing Medicare the bill. Shirley Monson, 74, of Ephraim, Utah, said that she expected to be hospitalized when she developed pneumonia last year. Instead, Sanpete Valley Hospital, part of Intermountain, sent Mrs. Monson home with antibiotics, and she recovered over the next two weeks. Such visits produce just token payments for hospitals.
 In addition to losing revenue each time it avoids an unnecessary hospital stay, Intermountain is penalized for treating only the sickest patients, Dr. James said. Medicare's payments for pneumonia are based on a rough estimate of the cost of an average case and assume a hospital will see a range of patients, some less sick -- and therefore less expensive to treat -- than others. But because Intermountain now admits only the sickest patients, its reimbursements fall short of its costs, Dr. James said, resulting in an average loss this year of a few hundred dollars a case.
 Similarly, averting hospital stays for congestive heart patients by prescribing the right medicines costs Intermountain nearly $4 million a year in potential revenues, according to Dr. James. And every adverse drug reaction Intermountain avoids deprives it of the revenue from treating the case. 
 "We are really rewarded for episodic care and maximizing the care delivered in each episode," said Dr. Charles W. Sorenson Jr., Intermountain's chief operating officer. 
 Like the vast majority of the nation's hospitals, Intermountain is a nonprofit organization, and executives here say financial penalties do not damp their desire to provide the highest quality care, which they see as their central mission. But Intermountain, which operates health plans and outpatient clinics in addition to its hospitals, says it needs to keep hospital beds filled and make money where it can to subsidize unprofitable services and pay for charity care.
 Outside of Medicare, Intermountain often benefits from its quality initiatives, executives said, because it gets to pocket much of the savings they produce. For example, Intermountain has generated about $2 million annually in savings by reducing the number of deliveries that women choose to induce before 39 weeks of pregnancy -- and thereby reducing the risk of complications to the mother or baby. According to Dr. James, almost all that money has been spent on other kinds of care.
 Hospital executives elsewhere say that they, too, have come up against the cold reality of the Medicare payment system. Partners HealthCare, the Boston system that includes Massachusetts General and Brigham and Women's Hospitals, has taken steps to reduce the number of unnecessary diagnostic tests it conducts at outpatient radiology centers, though executives know that smarter care will cut into their revenues. 
 "That's where you're smack up against the perverseness of the system," said Dr. James J. Mongan, chief executive of Partners.
 Medicare's payment policies have stymied efforts in the private sector to improve care, as well. 
 For example, the Leapfrog Group, a national organization of large employers concerned about health issues, has tried to encourage more hospitals to employ intensivists -- specialists who oversee the care provided in intensive-care units. Though studies show that such doctors significantly improve care, Medicare does not pay for them, and employers and insurers are having difficulty persuading some hospitals to take on the added expense. 
 "It's going to be very hard to compete with the incentives and disincentives in Medicare," said Suzanne Delbanco, the group's executive director. 
 Others argue that hospitals and doctors should not be paid extra for doing what they should be doing in the first place. 
 Helen Darling, the executive director of the National Business Group on Health, a national employer group, said Medicare instead should take a firmer stance in demanding quality. The program had a significant effect, she noted, when it said that only hospitals meeting a minimum set of standards could be reimbursed by Medicare for heart transplants.
 "The payment system drove quality," Ms. Darling said. 
 Medicare itself is taking some other tentative steps, including an experiment that pays certain hospitals an extra 2 percent for delivering the highest-quality care, as measured, for example, by administering antibiotics to pneumonia patients quickly and giving heart attack patients aspirin. But some hospital industry executives question whether that is enough money to offset the costs of improving care. 
 "It can only be a motivator if you really have an incentive," said Carmela Coyle, an executive with the American Hospital Association, who noted that hospitals on average are paid only 98 cents for each dollar of Medicare services they provide. 
 Mr. Scully, the Medicare administrator, defends the experiment, saying that the agency's goal is to determine if it is using the right measures to reward quality. "If this works, we'll do a bigger demonstration," he said. 
 But many policy analysts and employer groups want Medicare to do more. "Today, Medicare needs to step out front," said Peter V. Lee, chief executive of the Pacific Business Group on Health, who argues that how hospitals and doctors are paid is a critical component of motivating them to improve care. "There needs to be money at play."

Re-examining Medicare
Since its inception in 1965, Medicare has improved the health of the elderly while playing an outsize role in shaping the delivery of health care for all Americans. 
 This article is the sixth in a series examining efforts to overhaul Medicare and ways that rules of the program influence the economics and practice of medicine. 
 The articles will stay online at nytimes.com/business.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Instead of being hospitalized with pneumonia, Shirley Monson, 74, left, of Ephraim, Utah, was sent home with antibiotics; she recovered over the next two weeks. Such visits produce just token payments for hospitals. Dr. Brent C. James, right, leads Intermountain's efforts to improve quality. (Photo by George Frey for The New York Times); (Photo by Tom Smart for The New York Times)(pg. C2) Chart: "A Money-Losing Condition"At Intermountain Health Care, Medicare reimbursements for treating patients with pneumonia have not kept pace in recent years with the cost of caring for those patients. Graph tracks average for each pneumonia patient*, cost of treatment, and payments from Medicare. Total amount that Medicare payments for treating pneumonia patients at Intermountain exceeded or fell short of costs Graph tracks the total amount, measured quarterly, since 1998. *Patients who contracted pneumonia outside hospitals and who did not have a prior condition that had significantly impaired their immune systems. (Source by Intermountain Health Care)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); PNEUMONIA (90%); LEGISLATION (86%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); BUDGETS (76%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HEART DISEASE (72%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SURVEYS AND SERIES; MEDICARE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HOSPITALS; DOCTORS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HEALTH INSURANCE AND MANAGED CARE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PNEUMONIA 

ORGANIZATION: INTERMOUNTAIN HEALTH CARE (CO) 

INDUSTRY:  SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%) ABELSON, REED; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SCULLY, THOMAS A 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (78%) UTAH, USA (94%); IDAHO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UTAH; IDAHO; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



131 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-22

Powell Urges Further NATO Involvement in Iraq
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell urged NATO to expand its activities in Iraq, in the Bush administration's most pointed appeal for international help since it went to war. He also called for more involvement from the United Nations. A22

More than 400 people from 30 countries gathered for a conference focusing on how to rebuild Iraq and get a piece of the $18.3 billion Congress has authorized for the effort. A1

Pentagon Denies Contract Ploy
A $300,000 contract awarded to a major defense consultant was not an attempt to resurrect an office that was disbanded last year after it became known that it was considering plans to provide false news items, Pentagon officials said. A6

Hamas Campaign Suspended
Israeli officials have concluded that the Islamic movement Hamas has suspended its suicide bombing campaign in recent months. A3

President Bush and King Abdullah of Jordan discussed a Palestinian proposal in which Israel would refrain from killing terrorist suspects and stop construction of its barrier in the West Bank in return for a cease-fire by militants, Arab diplomats said. A3

Interpol Calls for Taylor Arrest
Interpol called for the arrest of the former Liberian president, Charles Taylor, for his suspected role in atrocities committed during Sierra Leone's 10-year civil war. A5

Rumsfeld Goes to Afghanistan
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld returned to Afghanistan and urged warlords to surrender heavy weapons, discussed plans for quelling insurgency and pressed for economic development. A10

NATIONAL A24-36

Bush Rescinds Steel Tariff; Political Backlash Feared
Citing an improving economy and cost-cutting efforts by domestic steel makers, President Bush lifted tariffs on imported steel, averting a trade war with Europe but risking a backlash in some industrial states heading into the 2004 election. A1

Prosecutor Found Dead
A federal prosecutor in Baltimore was found stabbed to death in a creek in a rural area of Pennsylvania, hours before he was scheduled to appear in court in the prosecution of a violent drug ring. A24

Daschle in Court for Janklow
Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota testified in the trial of Representative Bill Janklow, who is charged with manslaughter in the death of a motorcyclist. Mr. Daschle corroborated the defense team's contention that Mr. Janklow, a diabetic, failed to eat all day and could have become disoriented by low blood sugar as he drove. A24

Flu Outbreak in Colorado
In the last few days thousands of state residents have been vaccinated for the flu virus. Documented cases have spiked to more than 6,300 so far this year, resulting in five deaths. A30

Dean Takes Grassroots Route
Howard Dean's presidential campaign has enlisted paid out-of-state coordinators to execute "The Ask," recruiting people to offer their homes for meetings of Mr. Dean's supporters. A35

9/11 Investigator to Resign
Max Cleland, a former senator from Georgia and one of five Democrats on the federal commission investigating the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, is expected to resign within weeks, creating a vacancy with only six months left in the inquiry. A32

NEW YORK/REGION B1-12

Witnesses in Murder Trial Are Frightened to Testify
The trial of Dupree Harris, who is charged with murder for a street killing in 1999, has shown how difficult it can be to overcome a witness's fear, even when the authorities are on notice that intimidation of witnesses -- or worse -- is a possibility. A1

Vendor Regulation Fails
Hopes of resurrecting a law to control vendors in congested areas of the city ended after state lawmakers could not overcome disagreements on several issues, including whether vendors should be fingerprinted in the wake of Sept. 11, 2001. B1

E.P.A. Notes Smog in Region
A report released by the Environmental Protection Agency designated all of New Jersey and Connecticut as being out of compliance with antismog standards adopted several years ago. B1

A Hindu Temple Divided
A bitter dispute has divided members of the Hindu Temple Society of North America from its board of trustees over who should run the temple. B1

Neediest Cases C14

WEEKEND E1-40; E41-50

ESCAPES F1-12

OBITUARIES C11

Alan Davidson
A diplomat whose passion for food and its history led him to write indispensable works on seafood and to edit the comprehensive Oxford Companion to Food, he was 79. C11

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Executive Shuffle at Insurer
The American International Group announceda shuffling of senior managers that appears to put two of the company's most highly regarded executives in competition to succeed the chief executive. C1

Delays in Mobile Phone Switch
Thousands of consumers have switched mobile phone providers since new federal rules went into effect allowing them to keep their cellphone numbers when they change carriers. But the process has been disrupted by technical problems. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

SPORTS D1-7

EDITORIAL A38-39

Editorials: Fanning Rwanda's genocide; the doctor and his documents; a lynching memorial unveiled in Duluth; elusive helping hands in the city.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E38
TV Listings E39
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); HAMAS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); DEATHS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); MANSLAUGHTER (72%); CONTRACT AWARDS (72%); HOMICIDE (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TRADE DISPUTES (64%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (64%); INFLUENZA (63%); VIRUSES (60%); DIABETES (60%); RELIGION (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); HAMAS (83%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL POLICE ORGANIZATION (INTERPOL) (82%); UNITED NATIONS (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); TOM DASCHLE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); LIBERIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



132 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: AFTER 21 MONTHS, BUSH LIFTS TARIFF ON STEEL IMPORTS 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
Citing an improving economy and cost-cutting efforts by domestic steel makers, President Bush lifted tariffs on imported steel on Thursday, averting a trade war with Europe but risking a political backlash in some industrial states heading into the 2004 election.
 Twenty-one months after imposing the tariffs and saying they would remain in place for as long as three years to help the struggling industry, Mr. Bush said he would rescind them as of midnight on Thursday. The announcement of his decision immediately led the European Union to drop its plan to retaliate with tariffs on a variety of American exports from states vital to Mr. Bush's political fortunes, including Florida and Michigan. 
 Despite hopes within the industry that the tariffs would be lifted gradually or that steel companies would receive additional government help in offsetting the costs of union health and pension benefits, Mr. Bush announced no new steps to aid or protect steel makers and their workers.
The president said he would continue a program to monitor steel imports to detect any destabilizing surges of cheap foreign steel. The United States would also continue pressing other nations to stop subsidizing their own inefficient steel producers, he said.
In a written statement explaining the shift, Mr. Bush did not mention the threat from Europe or the ruling against the United States on the permissibility of the tariffs by the World Trade Organization, the international body that sets trade rules.
But the raw political fact remains that the World Trade Organization made the price of protecting the steel industry too high. 
"Defiance had real costs," one of Mr. Bush's senior aides said. "It was going to cost us exports and export jobs." News analysis, Page A28. 
The president instead cast the decision as driven by improvements in the outlook for domestic steel producers since he imposed the tariffs in March 2002.
In his written statement, Mr. Bush said steel makers were benefiting from the economic recovery, new labor agreements, stable prices, increased efficiency and the assumption by the government of some of the industry's pension obligations.
"I took action to give the industry a chance to adjust to the surge in foreign imports and to give relief to the workers and communities that depend on steel for their jobs and livelihoods," Mr. Bush said in the statement. "The safeguard measures have now achieved their purpose, and as a result of changed economic circumstances, it is time to lift them."
But Pascal Lamy, the top European trade official, immediately took credit for Mr. Bush's decision, telling a news conference in Brussels, "I am pleased to announce thatall our efforts have worked." 
Mr. Lamy said Europe would drop its threat of $2.2 billion in sanctions in the form of additional tariffs on American products and would also eliminate countertariffs it had already imposed on American steel.
The president's decision to abandon the tariffs was welcomed by advocates of unfettered trade and by representatives of states and industries that were paying the price for the trade protection in the form of higher steel prices.
"Too many Iowa manufacturers faced increased production costs because of these tariffs," Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said in a statement supporting Mr. Bush's decision.
Thomas J. Usher, chairman and chief executive of the largest American steel company, the United States Steel Corporation, who had lobbied hard to keep the tariffs in place for the full three years, softened his position after Mr. Bush's announcement. Mr. Usher, a major fund-raiser for Mr. Bush's re-election campaign, said that while he was disappointed with the decision, he appreciated the president's promise to track steel imports closely.
Mr. Usher's decision not to attack the White House over the shift opened a crack in what had been a united front between the steel companies and steel workers. 
Much of the increased efficiency among steel makers came about through new labor concessions intended to keep the industry afloat, analysts said. The White House's decision led organized labor to renew its argument that Mr. Bush is out of touch with the needs of working people, especially in industrial states that have been hit hard by losses of manufacturing jobs and where the economic recovery has been slow to take hold.
Leo W. Gerard, president of the United Steel Workers of America union, denounced Mr. Bush's decision. It was "a dark day for manufacturing," Mr. Gerard said, and a warning of what could happen to the automobile, textile, computer and other industries.
"I think the implications are going to be profound," he said.
Elected officials from steel-producing regions and several of the Democratic presidential candidates denounced the decision as a betrayal of a promise by the president to the industry's employees. They said that while there were hopeful signs for the industry, much more needed to be done to assure its survival and that leaving the tariffs in place for the full three years would have provided necessary breathing room to make further progress.
"The president's action today demonstrates a callous disregard for the workers and the communities whose jobs and livelihoods have been decimated by unfair competition," Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the Missouri Democrat who is running for his party's presidential nomination, said in a statement. "America needs a president who will not back down to foreign pressure when American jobs are on the line and when an industry vital to our nation's economy and security hangs in the balance."
Administration officials said Mr. Bush, by providing steel companies with more than a year and a half in which to whip themselves into shape after teetering on the brink of extinction, had thrown a lifeline to the industry.
"You've got about 150,000 steel workers in this country, and they can thank this president for having a chance to compete in the future," said Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative.
Asked at a news briefing whether the World Trade Organization ruling and the threat of a trade war had influenced Mr. Bush, Mr. Zoellick said that the president's decision had been made "independent of that," but that it was "good that we now don't have retaliation."
Whatever effect Mr. Bush's decision has on his re-election campaign in states like Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia, it provided him with at least one political victory. By showing that he was willing to use trade barriers to help an industry hurt by global competition, it helped persuade Congress last year to give Mr. Bush the authority to negotiate trade agreements with little interference from Congress, a power that President Bill Clinton had sought for years but failed to get. 
"The best that could be said about the steel policy is it got trade promotion authority and after that it was all downhill," said Gary Hufbauer, a senior fellow at the Institute of International Economics.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Steel Constituency"There are about 187,000 steel workers nationwide, more than half in 10 states. There are also about 600,000 retired steel workers and their dependents (mostly spouses) who rely on the industry for their benefits. ACTIVE STEEL WORKERS, APRIL 2002PRODUCING STEEL AND BASIC STEEL PRODUCTS Ohio: 30,800Pennsylvania: 30,600Indiana: 25,400Illinois: 15,400Michigan: 10,200Texas: 7,300California: 7,000Alabama: 6,200New York: 3,300New Jersey: 2,200 RETIRED STEEL WORKERS AND DEPENDENTS, 2000 ESTIMATEFROM MAJOR INTEGRATED STEEL COMPANIES Pennsylvania: 115,000Ohio: 56,000Indiana: 45,000Illinois: 30,000Maryland: 23,000Alabama: 15,000Michigan: 12,000Florida: 11,000Minnesota: 8,000West Virginia: 6,000 (Sources by United Steelworkers of America; Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. A28) Map of the United States highlights the states with the most active steel workers. (pg. A28) Map of the United States highlights the states with the most retired steel workers and dependents. (pg. A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (93%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (64%) STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (59%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); PASCAL LAMY (57%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BECKER, ELIZABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) OHIO, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (79%) ; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



133 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Euro Rises as Central Bank Stands Pat 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
The euro traded at another record high against the dollar on Thursday. Yet the currency's guardian, the European Central Bank, signaled that it was not alarmed by the recent surge, leaving its benchmark interest rate unchanged and dampening speculation of a radical change in policy to curb the appreciation of the euro.
 The bank's president, Jean-Claude Trichet, declined to comment directly on the euro, which traded as high as $1.216 before falling to $1.205 in trading in New York. He said the bank's strategy was to deliver a strong and stable currency. 
 Some European business leaders and public officials fear that a stampeding euro could trample the economic recovery by cutting exports. But Mr. Trichet insisted that commercial activity was reviving in Europe, and would turn into a "broader and strong upswing in the course of next year."
 Mr. Trichet also professed bewilderment at a report in The Daily Telegraph of London that the European Commission had studied capital controls as a way to stem the rally in the euro. Such a proposal, he said, was not in line with the policies of the monetary union.
 Mr. Trichet did not address a suggestion made on Thursday by Germany's deputy finance minister, Caio Koch-Weser, that the central bank might intervene to slow the rise of the currency.
 The economic waters in Europe have become choppy, with the surging euro and the recent suspension of fiscal rules that underpin the union, after they were repeatedly violated by France and Germany.
 In his second news conference since taking the helm in November, Mr. Trichet navigated gingerly. While he reiterated his deep regret at the decision of Europe's finance ministers to bend the rules, Mr. Trichet did not indicate that it would prompt a shift in the bank's monetary stance.
 Germany and France have promised to reduce their budget deficits to within the acceptable limit by 2005.
 "We make the working assumption that the commitments that were made by the countries concerned, and the commitment made by the qualified majority of the council will be honored," he said.
 In leaving the benchmark rate at 2 percent, Mr. Trichet said the risk of inflation appeared to be low. Europe's inflation rate is hovering slightly above 2 percent, the bank's target, though Mr. Trichet said it was not likely to fall as quickly as once expected, and warranted "close monitoring."
 The Bank of England also left its chief interest rate unchanged at 3.75 percent, after raising it a quarter point last month.
 While the European bank's decision to stand pat was widely expected, it finds itself in a fluid situation. With Europe's fiscal rules, known as the stability and growth pact, in disarray, and with the euro rising so fast, experts have speculated that the bank could either raise or lower rates.
 After the unraveling of the pact, some bank watchers predicted Mr. Trichet would send a hawkish signal as a way to discipline France and Germany for their fiscal profligacy. Then, with the jump in the euro this week, others have suggested a rate cut might be in the offing.
 True to his reputation for temperance, Mr. Trichet walked a line between Europe's jittery business leaders, agitated finance ministers, and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, who repeated his calls that the stability pact be overhauled.
 "We believe that what is in the treaty and what is in the stability pact is important," Mr. Trichet said, referring to the Maastricht treaty, which created the 12-member monetary union.
 Analysts generally applauded the bank for staying the course between the competing pressures. In particular, some people said it was right not to be spooked by the appreciation of the euro.
 "We're in an environment of improving global growth," said Jorg Kramer, the chief strategist at Invesco Asset Management in Frankfurt. 
 "Europe may get a smaller slice of the cake," he said, "due to the rise of the euro, but the overall size of the cake is bigger."
 The bank is scheduled to release its latest projections for growth next week, and most analysts expect them to be revised upward. 
 Given the gradual nature of the recovery in Europe -- especially when compared with the sudden growth spurt in the United States -- economists said the bank had several months to watch developments before it commits to a shift in rates.
 "A month or two ago, people were still concerned about downside risks," said David Mackie, the chief European economist at J.P. Morgan Chase in London. "Now we've got to think about upside risks."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jean-Claude Trichet, the president of the European Central Bank, said yesterday that the risk of inflation appeared to be low. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%) CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); BANK OF ENGLAND (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%) EUROPEAN UNION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (91%) TRICHET, JEAN-CLAUDE; LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



134 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: Elusive Helping Hands in the City 

 BODY:
It's a fact of life for many in the city: even a regular paycheck is no guarantee that there will be enough money for food. And as the number of working poor in the city has grown, so has the need for food stamp assistance. From the time Mayor Michael Bloomberg took office through last August, total rolls in the federal food stamp program have risen nearly 12 percent, with more than 900,000 city residents receiving assistance. That would be impressive -- if national enrollment had not risen by more than 18 percent. With New York leading the nation in absorbing economic hardship, there is something wrong here. 
 Looking for answers, the city's public advocate, Betsy Gotbaum, sent investigators to food stamp offices in the city. They found that some closed early or did not answer phones, and some offered long, outdated application forms. The City Council found that some office addresses were incorrectly listed and that some offices lacked application forms. The federal Department of Agriculture, in a periodic review, discovered that workers in a Bronx office had improperly turned away applicants. 
 But, amazingly, this is progress -- better than last year, and a vast improvement from the days of Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, who lumped food stamps with the vestiges of welfare to be eliminated. The city's human resources office now works with community-based organizations and others to increase enrollment, especially among the working poor. Still, it is not doing all it can, and that costs the city a bundle. Advocates for the hungry say 800,000 more people should be receiving food stamps, a number that would translate into $900 million in federal money coming intothe city. Even if those numbers are overstated, the benefit cannot be shrugged off.
Soup kitchens and food banks, meanwhile, are left to fill a gaping hole, and are in trouble. No doubt many who go to such places are eligible for benefits they are not getting, leaving them to take food that should go to people who really have nowhere else to turn. That should be hard for all of us to swallow. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD STAMPS (93%); CITY LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); HUMAN RESOURCES (72%) FOOD; EDITORIALS; FOOD STAMPS 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (71%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



135 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Bush Avoids a Trade War By Lifting Steel Tariffs
Citing an improving economy and cost-cutting efforts by domestic steel makers, President Bush lifted tariffs on imported steel, averting a trade war with Europe but risking a political backlash in some industrial states.
 The announcement led the European Union to drop its plan to retaliate with tariffs on a variety of American exports from states vital to Mr. Bush's political fortunes. Page A1. 

The World Trade Organization figured out how to hit the Bush administration where it would hurt -- by making the price of protecting the steel industry too high. News Analysis. A28.

Intel Raises Its Revenue Forecast
Intel expects revenue of $8.5 billion to $8.7 billion for its fiscal fourth quarter, which is higher than it had earlier forecast, because of strong holiday sales of its microprocessors for PC's. But Intel surprised investors with a $600 million charge related to chips used in cellphones and other communication devices, dating back to its 1999 acquisition of DSP Communications for $1.6 billion. C3.

OPEC Holds Steady on Output
OPEC decided against reducing crude oil production at a meeting of its 11 members but made clear that it would remain vigilant about price declines. World Business, Section W.

Criticism for Medicare Pay System
Doctors and executives at Intermountain Health Care, a network of 21 hospitals in Utah and Idaho, contend that Medicare's payment system is fundamentally flawed because those who work to improve care are not paid extra while poor care is frequently rewarded. A1.

I.R.S. Told to Disclose Its Reasoning
A federal appeals court has ruled that the Internal Revenue Service must disclose its reasoning each time it denies a request for tax-exempt status or revokes it. C3.

Lawyers Could Be Next Front
Regulators may soon open a new front in their investigation of possible wrongdoing at mutual funds, focusing on the role of lawyers who advised them, a senior Securities and Exchange Commission official said. C6.

Euro Surges as Bank Stands Pat
The euro traded at another record high against the dollar. Yet the currency's guardian, the European Central Bank, signaled that it was not alarmed by the recent surge, leaving its benchmark interest rate unchanged and dampening speculation of a radical change in policy to curb the appreciation of the euro. Jean-Claude Trichet, the president of the bank, declined to comment directly on the euro. World Business, Section W.

Delta Starts Concession Talks
Delta Air Lines and its pilots union have begun negotiations on wage and benefit concessions, and analysts are optimistic that an agreement can eventually be reached because of new leadership on both sides. C3.

Stock Gauges Meander Higher
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 57.40 points, to 9,930.82. The Nasdaq composite climbed 8.55 points, to 1,968.80, and the S.&P. 500 increased 4.99 points, to 1,069.72. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,930.82 up 57.40Nasdaq composite -- 1,968.80 up 8.5510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.37% down 0.04The euro -- $1.2086 down 0.0018The dollar -- 108.15 yen up 0.03 Graph: "TODAY" shows unemployment figures from May to October; factory orders and consumer borrowing figures from April to September. UnemploymentNovember figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: 6.0% Factory OrdersOctober figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +2.1% Consumer BorrowingOctober figures due at 3 p.m. Eastern time.Expected: +$5.0 billion Graph tracks the daily closing price of Intel shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EURO (89%); MEDICARE (89%); TAX LAW (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); HEALTH CARE (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); TAX AUTHORITIES (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); OIL EXTRACTION (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); AIRLINES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); APPEALS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); APPEALS COURTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%); DSP COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); INTEL CORP (57%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); DAL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



136 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: City Officials Questioned Over a Deal With Snapple 

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN

 BODY:
Snapple got a sweetheart deal when it was given exclusive rights to place vending machines in city schools and to sell iced tea and bottled water on city property, representatives of several competing beverage companies told the City Council yesterday. 
 For nearly two hours, members of the City Council's Finance and Contracts Committees grilled city officials about the process that led to the selection of Snapple as the official iced tea and water of New York City, and the sole purveyor in schools. The officials defended the arrangement, saying the process had complied with all regulations and that Snapple was, in fact, the perfect choice. 
 The hearing was the latest development in the Snapple matter, which seemed like a simple enough arrangement when it was announced but has since been plagued by questions from competitors and politicians. 
In September, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein announced the five-year deals, which they said could generate as much as $166 million over five years. Snapple, they explained, would be given exclusive rights to place vending machines in city schools, from which it would sell water and 100 percent juice drinks. In a related plan, the city would soon give Snapple exclusive rights to sell iced tea, water and chocolate drinks (the company makes Yoo-Hoo) on city property.
But William C. Thompson Jr., the city comptroller, raised questions about the arrangement, saying that Octagon, a marketing company that helped broker the deal, also represented Cadbury-Schweppes, which owns Snapple. 
On Wednesday, Mr. Thompson announced that he planned to audit the schools' portion of the deal. The citywide arrangement is scheduled to be reviewed and voted on next week by the city's Franchise and Concession Review Committee. 
At yesterday's hearing, new details of the agreement emerged. Officials testified that Octagon stands to gain as much as $14 million from the deals -- $8 million from the schools and $6 million from the city. 
Several city officials testified that the selection process had been fair and Octagon's commissions reasonable.
Marty Oestreicher, chief executive of school support services for the city's Department of Education, said the department was not obligated to go through competitive bidding because the Snapple deal was a revenue-generating project, not a procurement matter. Nonetheless, he said, the department had in fact examined proposals from half a dozen other beverage companies. 
Daniel L. Doctoroff, deputy mayor for economic development, acknowledged that the city had not solicited counterproposals from other companies, but said that once Snapple was chosen for the schools, the possibility of a citywide arrangement was too good to pass up.
"Once Snapple was chosen by the Department of Education, we recognized that a small window of opportunity existed to craft a fantastic citywide partnership," he said. Snapple, Mr. Doctoroff said, was prepared to "spend like a soft drink giant" agreeing, for example, to spend $12 million a year on promotional campaigns featuring New York City without a corner on the actual soft drink market.
Plus, he said, branding is not all about money. 
"Snapple has a brand that can support, and in some instances enhance our image," Mr. Doctoroff said. "We conducted an analysis of how people feel about Snapple, and it shows that Snapple and New York City share attributes like uniqueness and originality, but where New York is seen as unapproachable, Snapple is depicted as friendly." 
Representatives of Pepsi, Veryfine and Apple & Eve, however, testified that they would have changed their proposals to the Department of Education had they been alerted to the possibility of a citywide partnership.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David I. Weprin, left, the City Council Finance Committee chairman, with Robert Jackson, chairman of the Council Contracts Committee. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); CITIES (92%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); BOTTLED WATER (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (89%); MAYORS (89%); BEVERAGE MFG (89%); SOFT DRINKS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); VENDING MACHINE OPERATORS (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Beverages; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Beverages; Education and Schools

COMPANY: CADBURY LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Snapple Beverage Group; Pepsi-Cola Co; Apple & Eve; Veryfine; Octagon (Marketing Co)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%) Elissa Gootman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



137 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
In Nets' World, Even Kidd Is Vulnerable

BYLINE:  By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
THE deathwatch begins now for a lame duck coach, Byron Scott, his Nets stumbling through the first quarter of the N.B.A. season with the body language of a team waiting for that proverbial other shoe to drop. Scott's vulnerability will dominate the dialogue for the two-time finalists, but it may be remembered as a footnote compared with the franchise upheaval likely to come.
 The Nets have plenty of time to fast break their way back into a strong defense of their Eastern Conference championship. But a more conclusive opinion has already been reached regarding their inability to generate the necessary support for the massive expenditure ownership has undertaken to construct this team. 
 A winner was built. The fans won't come.
"It's gotten ugly in just a couple of months," said one person with ties to the splintering YankeeNets group and to the negotiations to sell the team, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Another Nets insider said: "If the new owner is a businessman first and a basketball fan second, he's going to have to crash the payroll."
While the inflationary Yankees fiddle with Javier Vazquez, Gary Sheffield and assorted friends, the fragile Nets seem ready to burn. The franchise that introduced itself to theN.B.A. in 1976 by selling off its primary asset, Julius Erving, is suddenly confronted with a plausible retro situation. 
In the context of what has transpired since the six-year, $103 million contract for Jason Kidd was hailed as the Nets' salvation, Kidd, the best point guard in basketball, will probably become a financial albatross for the next Nets' ownership as it moves to find a competitive level commensurate with its business limitations.
Just to be clear, this is no talk-radio rant. No one is saying that Kidd is on the trading block, or momentarily will be. Those involved in determining the Nets' future have more urgent issues, yet the notion of the next ownership eventually moving the franchise savior to save the franchise was called an "interesting thesis" by one insider and "a discussion that's already started as a whisper campaign" by another.
Before the free-agent romancing of the 30-year-old Kidd began in earnest last June, rumors surfaced of the Nets' seeking a younger, less-expensive point guard as an alternative path, given their administrative uncertainties. Part of the ownership actually preferred that route, especially when Kidd returned from his recruiting trip to San Antonio demanding the Nets shell out an additional $23 million for Alonzo Mourning.
The more conservative approach harkened to the days when the former owners mockingly known as the Secaucus Seven operated with the belief that wild spending sprees in the chase for a championship were the road to ruin. The contemporary Nets owners wanted to play ball the way their partner, George Steinbrenner, always has with his Yankees. They hoped a championship-caliber product would electrify northern New Jersey and produce a new arena in Newark. Instead, the Kidd negotiations created the perfect storm of liability, wreaking organizational havoc. 
The risky and now disastrous signing of Mourning, the buyout of Dikembe Mutombo, the effect those payoffs have had on the prospective free agent Kenyon Martin, the fallout from the screaming headlines regarding Kidd's dissatisfaction with Scott -- add it all up and you have a destabilized team that won't beat a Western Conference champion even if it should buck the odds and win the East for a third successive season.
At this point, an N.B.A. championship wouldn't make much bottom-line difference, according to a third insider. "The Devils won the championship," he said. "How do they draw?"
With the Nets' financial woes mounting, Charles Wang, who wanted to buy the Nets and move them to Long Island, has withdrawn his bid. Bruce Ratner, another potential buyer, wants them in Brooklyn, creating the possibility of alienating New Jersey's already indifferent fan base while an arena takes years to build. As one of the insiders pointed out, under that plan, what good would it do Ratner to pay Kidd the bulk of his $103 million to attract 12,000 people in New Jersey and be 34 years old when he goes to Brooklyn? 
Under any plan that keeps the team based at the Meadowlands for the foreseeable future, there will hard decisions to make, none of them painless. Given the shortage of revenue, do the Nets continue doling out huge contracts (to Martin and later to Richard Jefferson) and hope their fortunes take a miraculous turn? Do they cling to Kidd, their most valuable and marketable player, and deal Martin? Or do they take that alternative path and try to trade Kidd, whose contract will only be movable while he's considered in his prime and while the Western Conference powers and the noted Kidd lovers San Antonio and Dallas arekeen to keep pace with the Lakers.
Walking slowly from a news conference following a fourth straight defeat Wednesday night in front of another depressingly sparse home crowd, Kidd may already have concluded what the Yankee end of YankeeNets have: that his staying in New Jersey was a mistake. He and the Nets' front office can make Scott the fall guy if the team continues to underachieve, but firing the coach won't bring back a healthy Mourning or even Mutombo. It won't raise the money to pay Martin. It won't produce a magical new arena full of fans to erase those bottom-line blues exacerbated by $126 million spent last summer. 
When the perfect storm comes, the winds of change are usually close behind.

GRAPHIC: Photos: It may be in the Nets' best interest to consider trading Jason Kidd. (Photo by Barton Silverman)(pg. D1); Jason Kidd, who signed a six-year, $103 million contract during the off-season, has seen the Nets stumble to a 7-11 start this season. (Photo by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); RELOCATIONS (63%); CONSERVATISM (60%) Basketball; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Finances; Trades (Sports)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%) New Jersey Nets

PERSON: Harvey Araton; Jason Kidd

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



138 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: Kyoto Treaty: The Future Is Now 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Kyoto Protocol in Peril" (editorial, Dec. 4): You rightly point out that the Bush administration's approach to greenhouse gases "would translate into an actual increase in emissions of 14 percent over the next decade." 
If America fails to act within that time frame, it will be effectively passing the buck -- to its children. 
 Investments in technological solutions may help, but without short-term regulatory control, America's next generation will inherit an economic and ecological burden far more imposing than that we face today. For tomorrow's leaders to preserve our standard of living, we need concerted action today.

SCOTT PAUL
New York, Dec. 4, 2003

The writer is chairman of SustainUS.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EMISSIONS (88%); GLOBAL WARMING (88%); GREENHOUSE GASES (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (67%) Weather; Global Warming

ORGANIZATION: SustainUS

PERSON: Scott Paul

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



139 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: Consuming Globally 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The problem with Paul Krugman's worldview ("The Good News," column, Nov. 28) is that global consumption is unsustainable, especially as the population increases. 
 Petroleum dependence has as much capacity suddenly to limit expansion as it has had in allowing expansion. Mr. Krugman writes, "We are not, it turns out, condemned to live forever on a planet where only a small minority of the global population has a decent standard of living." His claim assumes unlimited oil and natural gas consumption -- about to halt globally as peak production passes. Even if it could be perpetuated, Earth is already being fried. 
He says "the critics of globalization do have some valid points." But he scarcely lists any. Aside from oil, he might have mentioned that corporate globalization is through the barrel of the gun, as has been demonstrated from Chiapas to Miami when people are trying to protect what is "decent."

JAN LUNDBERG
Pres., Sustainable Energy Institute
Arcata, Calif., Nov. 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (88%); LIVING STANDARDS (88%); POPULATION GROWTH (88%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (88%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (86%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRENDS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (64%); NATURAL GAS CONSUMPTION (54%) Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: Sustainable Energy Institute

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%) Paul Krugman; Jan C Lundberg

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



140 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Berlusconi Urges Support for U.S. on Iraq 

BYLINE:  By FRANK BRUNI

DATELINE: ROME, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi said Wednesday night in an interview here that all European countries should rally to American efforts in Iraq and described the intervention there as an important, necessary example of the West exporting freedom.
 Mr. Berlusconi, who holds the rotating presidency of the European Union, said there were many ways in which Western countries could and should promote their values, including placing economic sanctions on totalitarian governments. 
 But, the prime minister added, the "community of democracies" must be prepared to use force in certain cases, as it did in Iraq. He said such an approach might well require "a change in international law, which previously held that the sovereignty of a single state was inviolable." 
"Today the West is the only military power, and within the West there is the incomparable supermilitary power of the United States," Mr. Berlusconi said during a 90-minute interview Wednesday night in Palazzo Chigi, the prime minister's official residence here.
"And today we ask if it should be possible, looking to the future, to intervene as exporters of democracy and freedom in the whole world," he added.
He made it clear that he thought it was indeed possible and that his mindset mirrored -- and perhaps even went beyond -- President Bush's doctrine of pre-emptive intervention to head off terrorist threats.
Mr. Berlusconi's stated philosophy left little if any room for the kinds of qualms expressed by so many of his European counterparts.
The wide-ranging interview came at a time when Mr. Berlusconi seems to be under almost constant fire.
Over the last few days and weeks, he has been attacked by political opponents here and elsewhere in Europe for legislation that seems to favor his vast media empire, for his emphatic support of Israel and for his recent defense of Russian policies in Chechnya.
But the prime minister seemed wholly unbowed by that and, even as he was recovering from the flu, spoke energetically and expansively, in soliloquies bereft of self-criticism and brimming with self-congratulation.
"I am only myself, a sincere person who doesn't bend to conformity," Mr. Berlusconi said in Italian. "If I have an opinion and you ask me about this opinion, I have the courage to say it."
Although several of his aides, sitting nervously nearby, piped up occasionally to try to steer him away from potentially delicate subjects or dicey locutions, he more or less ignored them.
In a Europe often hostile to the Bush administration, Mr. Berlusconi offered an impassioned defense of the United States. He said he was astonished by talk of American imperialism from the European left, adding that he had never seen any sign of it himself.
"The only territory really occupied by the United States is that in which the soldiers who died for our freedom lie," he said, a reference to American cemeteries in Europe.
He also said that, in light of the long American defense of Western Europe after World War II, it was "absolutely unthinkable for me" to decline President Bush's request for an Italian military presence to help the rebuilding of Iraq.
Asked about frequent French and German opposition to the United States over the last year, Mr. Berlusconi said the diplomatic burden of his role as president of the 15-nation European Union prevented him from responding candidly.
But, he quickly added, "Everyone should have the awareness of owing gratitude to the great American democracy."
Mr. Berlusconi did not provide Italian troops for the initial American-led invasion of Iraq, which a majority of Italians opposed. It was only after the fall of Baghdad that his government authorized the dispatch of 3,000 soldiers, police officers and civilians.
A suicide bombing in southern Iraq last month left 19 of those Italians dead, but the prime minister said his commitment to helping the United States remained steadfast.
He added that he had spoken recently to the leaders of Poland and Spain, two other countries with troops in Iraq, and that he was certain they shared his resolve.
There was no sense of equivocation in Mr. Berlusconi, whether he was cheering the United States, trumpeting his plans to transform Italy's economy or discussing, without apology, his ever-lengthening string of political gaffes.
One of them came during an address to the European Parliament in early July, when he said that a German lawmaker in that chamber would be perfect for a movie role as a concentration camp guard. The lawmaker had just publicly questioned Mr. Berlusconi's ethics.
Mr. Berlusconi said during Wednesday night's interview that his response was obviously a joke and that everyone present took it that way, even though subsequent news reports offered a less rosy appraisal.
"The whole Parliament laughed," he said. "Everyone laughed. Everyone."
Mr. Berlusconi has control or potential influence over six of the seven national networks in Italy. His family owns prominent publications as well.
Yet he insisted 80 percent of news coverage in Italy was hostile to him. He said he was constantly being satirized on television and had even been called a "dwarf."
"I'm as tall as Aznar," he said, referring to the Spanish prime minister, Jose Maria Aznar, and betraying a chink of sensitivity in his armor of bravado.
"I'm the average Italian, right?" he added, looking toward an aide, who responded, "Certainly."
Mr. Berlusconi said he had been forced to act on advice from Margaret Thatcher, a former British prime minister, and ignore negative articles about him, lest they dim his enthusiasm for the big challenges he had given himself.
Early this week, Mr. Berlusconi's allies in the Italian Parliament passed a bill that could allow him, in the coming years, to expand his already vast media empire significantly. His outraged opponents said the legislation underscored his conflicts of interest as Italy's head of government and richest man.
Mr. Berlusconi dismissed that, saying his conduct over the two and a half years of his current government -- he was also prime minister in 1994, for just seven months -- belied any conflict.
Not once, he said, had he placed a telephone call to his own media holding company to try to influence its decisions. That company, Mediaset, is run by one of his best friends and Mr. Berlusconi's oldest son.
The prime minister insisted, as he previously had, that he had made a decision to sell Mediaset once he entered politics, but that his family begged him not to, and so he relented.
Turning to international affairs, Mr. Berlusconi expressed cautious optimism that European leaders would reach agreement on the evolving draft of a first constitution for the union at a pivotal meeting in Brussels late next week.
He acknowledged that leaders had yet to resolve some difficult issues, like the weight that different countries held in the voting process.
But he said he already had solutions to some outstanding issues and predicted that some of the countries putting up the biggest fights would come around, if only to "make a gesture to me, because they are all my friends."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy, the current president of the European Union, spoke at a news conference yesterday in Paris. (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (79%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TRENDS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); TERRORISM (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); INFLUENZA (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) Frank Bruni; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (79%); ITALY (79%) Iraq; Europe

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



141 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Rumsfeld Confers With Afghan Leader and Warlords 

BYLINE:  By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld returned on Thursday to Afghanistan, the opening front in America's campaign against terrorism, and urged Afghan warlords to surrender heavy weapons, discussed plans for quelling a lingering insurgency and pressed for economic development.
 The unspoken theme of his mission, however, was to prove to the people of Afghanistan, and to its sometime quarreling leaders, that the United States has not forgotten its unfinished business here even as the military focuses on its far larger effort in Iraq. 
 The mission to stabilize and rebuild Afghanistan faces significant hurdles. Guerrilla attacks are directed against allied forces, international aid workers and Afghan government officials, especially in the eastern and southern parts of the country, and some of the rebel activity is reportedly financed by an increased trade in opium and heroin. 
In addition, roadwork intended to ease cargo transports and improve the economy has moved slowly. Above all, the central government's influence is weak outside Kabul, the capital, a result of an ineffective civil administration, the historic feudal structure of the provinces and an economy that still defies central regulation. 
Mr. Rumsfeld's daylong visit to Kabul and to Mazar-i-Sharif, in northern Afghanistan, where his convoy jousted for space along the dusty roadway with donkey carts and bicycles, was in effect a tour of the reconstruction effort's successes and its challenges.
The Afghan leader, Hamid Karzai, acknowledged the challenges at a news conference here with Mr. Rumsfeld. "We have now reached 40 to 50 percent of the administrative capability that a normal government of a country like ours should have," Mr. Karzai said.
The threats posed by "armed groups, the question of fighting and warlordism hurting the Afghan people" remain, he said, but are "being tackled more aggressively." 
Those threats were underscored when a rocket exploded in a field near the United States Embassy two hours after Mr. Rumsfeld met with Mr. Karzai at the presidential palace, in another part of the city, The Associated Press reported. No one was injured. 
Mr. Rumsfeld was the first member of the Bush cabinet to visit Afghanistan, two years ago, as the war to oust the Taliban government raged.
On Thursday, his third visit to the country this year, Mr. Rumsfeld was asked whether the increase in sporadic attacks against the government meant that the Taliban was regrouping, as some military experts have suggested.
"They'll not have that opportunity," he replied.
While in Mazar-i-Sharif, Mr. Rumsfeld met with two warlords -- Pentagon officials call them "regional leaders" -- Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum and Gen. Atta Mohammad. 
During the war, the two joined forces to take Mazar-i-Sharif, the first capture of a strategic Taliban stronghold. But since then, they have skirmished politically and their militias have occasionally clashed as well.
Both have agreed to place their heavy weapons under international supervision and to demobilize their forces, though they have been slow to actually do so.
At the meeting with Mr. Rumsfeld, according to a senior Pentagon official who was present, General Mohammad expressed pride at how quickly he was complying, while General Dostum smiled and said: "Our side is a little slower. But we'll cooperate without any doubt."
In comments to the two menbefore taking them into private session, Mr. Rumsfeld described how he had followed their military progress from the Pentagon during the early days of the Afghan war, when their forces linked up with American Green Berets, summoned Air Force and Navy bombers and sent their troops to capture Mazar-i-Sharif.
During his visit on Thursday, Mr. Rumsfeld also sought to highlight the work of the six so-called provisional reconstruction teams that are now operating across Afghanistan, each averaging 60 to 100 people drawn from the military, diplomatic services, government aid agencies and intelligence agencies.
The task of the reconstruction teams is to carry out security operations, as well as train local police, guide municipal governments, assist in reconstruction and gather information on the Taliban or other terrorist activity.
The small teams are designed to carry out this broad range of security and stabilization tasks with small numbers, which Pentagon officials say is important in a nation with a historic animosity to foreign troops.
The United States operates four teams. One of those, in Kunduz, is to be handed over to German command. In addition, New Zealand and Britain operate one each, the latter in Mazar-i-Sharif.
Mr. Rumsfeld said he supported NATO's discussion to set up and operate additional teams. 
The commander of the team in Mazar-i-Sharif, Col. Richard R. Davis of the British Army, said that "criminality and thuggery" remained serious obstacles to securing and rebuilding northern Afghanistan.
Recent studies by the White House and the United Nations found that poppy cultivation in Afghanistan increased from 2002 to 2003. The opium trade provided both the money and the incentive for rivals to challenge the central government.
"It's always a factor," said one senior Pentagon official.
Military officers said the United States provides just under 10,000 of the 11,500 troops in the coalition force in Afghanistan. The NATO-led international security force in Kabul numbers another 5,700.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan met in Kabul on the insurgency by Taliban supporters. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALIBAN (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (79%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); TRENDS (75%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (75%); ARMED FORCES (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); HEROIN (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); POLITICS (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Politics and Government; Terrorism; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: Taliban

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (89%) Thom Shanker; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; Hamid (Pres) Karzai; Abdul Rashid (Gen) Dostum; Atta (Gen) Mohammad

GEOGRAPHIC: MAZAR-E SHARIF, AFGHANISTAN (94%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan; Mazar-I-Sharif (Afghanistan)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



142 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Antitax Group Starts Ad Effort Against Dean 

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
Eleven months before Election Day, a conservative antitax group began television advertisements in Iowa and New Hampshire on Thursday that accuse of Howard Dean, a leading Democratic presidential hopeful, of planning to raise taxes on average families by $1,933.
 Dr. Dean, former governor of Vermont, said he would immediately respond with his own advertisements. 
 The antitax group, the Club for Growth in Washington, said it had bought $100,000 of television time over two weeks in the two early voting states for its spot, which likens Dr. Dean to the failed Democratic nominees George McGovern, Walter F. Mondale and Michael S. Dukakis, and says he would "raise income taxes, marriage taxes, capital gains taxes, dividend taxes, even bring back the death tax."
The advertisement refers to Dr. Dean's promise to repeal all of President Bush's recent tax cuts. Dr. Dean's campaign began producing an advertisement that describes him as a fiscal conservative who balanced 11 state budgets and says of Mr. Bush, "His economic policies created the largest deficits in our country's history." 
Dr. Dean's campaign manager, Joe Trippi, said the new advertisements showed that the line between the primary and general elections was blurry and justified Dr. Dean's decision not to abide by individual state spending caps until a nominee emerged from the nine-member Democratic field. Dr. Dean's campaign has abandoned public financing so it can raise and spend more than $45 million before the party convention next summer.
The Club for Growth's advertising purchase seemed aimed as much at winning new media attention as it did at swaying voters, because its size and duration did not constitute a significant presence.
The president of the group, Stephen Moore, said it would spend at least an additional $33,000 in Iowa and New Hampshire after Christmas. He said the group, which advocates lower taxes and smaller government, focused on Dr. Dean because his economic policy was the worst of all the Democrats'. 
"This is an alert to viewers," Mr. Moore said, "that this man is economically dangerous." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FAMILY (77%); ESTATE TAX (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INCOME TAX (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); MARRIAGE (72%); CHRISTMAS (64%); HISTORY (52%) Taxation; Political Advertising; Television; Election Issues ; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: Club for Growth (Orgn)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%) Jodi Wilgoren; Howard (Dr) Dean; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Iowa; New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



143 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: A Blink From the Bush Administration 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
President Bush had little choice on Thursday when he reversed himself and lifted the tariffs on imported steel that he imposed last year.
 For the first time in his nearly three years in office, the president, who has often reveled in the exercise of American power, finally met an international organization that had figured out how to hit back at the administration where it would hurt. Employing relatively untested powers, the eight-year-old World Trade Organization authorized European and Asian nations to devise retaliatory tariffs against the United States, just 11 months before a presidential election. Not surprisingly, the Europeans pulled out an electoral map and proudly announced they would single out products made in the states Mr. Bush most needs to win a second term. 
 In fact, what the W.T.O. accomplished when it forced the Bush White House into a rare 180-degree turn was exactly what its American champions envisioned and its opponents warned about during the first big globalization debates of the 1990's. Acting as the final arbiter of the world's trade rules, it reversed the politics of protectionism, making sure that nations that protect their markets -- in the name of saving jobs -- are forced to pay a steep price.
Mr. Bush's trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, argued on Thursday that the president had reached an "independent decision" to lift the tariffs, and he acted as if the W.T.O.'s ruling that the tariffs are illegal was only a minor consideration in Mr. Bush's deliberations. 
But the raw political fact remains that the W.T.O. made the price of protecting the steel industry simply too high. It was left to the Europeans to design the penalties, and they pinpointed textile mills in the Carolinas and farmers in the Midwest and California with a precision that Karl Rove, the president's political adviser, must have grudgingly admired.
"Defiance had real costs," one of Mr. Bush's senior aides said. "It was going to cost us exports and export jobs. It was going to cost us credibility around the world. It was going to put us at odds with Europe again."
There was another potential cost: The United States wins many more cases than it loses at the W.T.O., and to ignore the steel ruling would be to invite Japan, China and Europe to ignore rulings in Washington's favor. 
So while the White House was loath to say so, Mr. Bush's decision to comply fully with the ruling helped establish the trade organization's authority, showing that even the world's largest economic power, and the nation that spurred its creation, had to bend to its rulings.
For the organization that conservatives, and some liberals, once denounced as an "unelected bureaucracy" that should never be given power over American jobs, this case was the rough equivalent of Marbury v. Madison, the 1803 decision that established the Supreme Court as the final arbiter of the constitution, able to force Congress and the executive branch to comply with its rulings.
"It may be remembered as a critical case," said Martin N. Baily, a scholar at the Institute for International Economics in Washington and the chairman of the council of economic advisers when the steel industry was beginning to appeal for White House aid in the late 1990's. "They changed the political equation in the U.S. and made the calculation for lifting the tariffs look good."
Mr. Bush, Mr. Baily said, must have swallowed hard.
"It wouldn't fit the Crawford image to be seen kowtowing to these Europeans," he said. "But as they sat down and debated the issue among themselves, the W.T.O.'s ability to impose sanctions and aim them at particular Congressional districts had to be a very major factor."
Having seen the brutal politics of steel up close, Mr. Baily wonders now whether Al Gore would have won West Virginia and thus the presidency three years ago if the Clinton administration had acted more vigorously to protect the American steel producers. "We resisted the pressure on economic grounds, and it's possible that Al Gore paid for that," he said.
Fortunately for Mr. Bush, the economy at home and around the world has changed enough in the past year and a half that he could claim that his main mission had been accomplished. The steel industry is in far better shape now than it was when he imposed the temporary "safeguards" that were supposed to slow the inflow of 10 types of foreign steel for three years.
When Mr. Bush imposed the tariffs he said that the steel industry had to use the time to close old and inefficient factories and to consolidate operations. Independent studies, including one by the International Trade Commission, demonstrate that much of that consolidation has already happened. Producers have merged. Labor contracts have been renegotiated, though often at considerable cost to the approximately 150,000 workers people still employed in an industry that is just a shadow of its former self.
Mr. Bush was also aided by the fact that industry itself was divided. In recent months he has come under quieter, countervailing pressure from the executives of many companies that consume steel, carmakers among them. Those executives are also major donors at the fund-raisers that have already put more than $100 million into Mr. Bush's re-election coffers. Oftentimes, they used those events to send back channel messages that European sanctions would be a disaster for their exports, and could ultimately cost more jobs.
So that left Mr. Bush to choose between battling business constituencies, a position no president, especially a pro-business Republican, wants to find himself in.
Angry about picking up the newspapers early this week and discovering the president was about to fold his tent, the chairman and chief executive of U.S. Steel, Thomas Usher, insisted on Monday that the process of industry consolidation was at best "one-third complete," and would be undercut if Mr. Bush gave in to "blackmail" by the Europeans. Mr. Usher sounded more conciliatory Thursday, perhaps realizing that he may need something more from the White House in the future. 
But one man's blackmail is another's leverage. Thursday the European trade commissioner, Pascal Lamy, made it clear that in his mind, it was the threat of taking the economic war to Mr. Bush's constituency that forced him to think twice about going his own way.
"These sanctions, as I have always said, were there as a tool for compliance," he said. "They have complied, and the sanctions will disappear." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); POLITICS (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LIBERALISM (71%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (70%); FABRIC MILLS (66%) Steel and Iron; Customs (Tariff); Election Issues; International Trade and World Market; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); KARL ROVE (59%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; David E Sanger

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2003 



144 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1513 words

HEADLINE: Arms Control Racing Time and Technology 

BYLINE:  By JUDITH MILLER 

 BODY:
The intricate web of treaties and international agreements to limit the spread of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons is under siege, influential arms control experts say, and may be unable to deter hostile states or terrorists from acquiring the most lethal weapons.
 "We are facing a daunting array of new threats, some of which our existing treaties and agreements probably can't solve," said Michael L. Moodie, president of the Chemical and Biological Arms Control Institute, a nonpartisan research center that sponsored a conference in Washington last month. 
 Complaints about the three so-called pillars of nonproliferation -- the 1968 Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, the 1997 Chemical Weapons Convention and the 1972 Biological Weapons Convention -- are not new. But the cascade of challenges has vastly increased concern.
Experts who attended the meeting in Washington and one in Monterey, Calif., last month warned of the growing sophistication of terrorist groups like Al Qaeda and their persistent efforts to acquire nuclear, chemical and biological weapons for what Bruce Hoffman, the head of the Washington office of the RAND Corporation, called "mass casualty" or "megaterrorism." 
W. Seth Carus, deputy director of the Center for Counterproliferation Research at the Pentagon's National Defense University, warned that "terrorists cannot be deterred by existing treaties or emerging tools." 
Of equal concern is the weakening of the arms control treaties themselves. For the first time, a member of the nuclear treaty group, North Korea, has withdrawn from the accord, openly renouncing its pledge not to develop nuclear weapons. India, Pakistan and Israel, none of which signed the treaty, have also suffered few consequences as a result of their decision to acquire nuclear weapons. That could encourage other nations to pursue atomic bombs, experts said.
The Bush administration's policies have also come under attack. Critics like Joseph Cirincione, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, argued that the administration was undermining nonproliferation norms and alliances by its policies: its determination to develop an antiballistic missile shield and a new class of nuclear weapons; its abandonment of an international, six-year effort to strengthen the bioweapons treaty; and its attack on Iraq as part of its doctrine of preventive war. Administration officials adamantly dispute such claims, arguing that the terrorist attacks of 9/11 and the anthrax letters that followed underline the limitations of current agreements and the need to propose creative supplements and alternatives.
Don A. Mahley, the State Department's special negotiator for chemical and biological arms control, called other nations' unwillingness to take action against treaty violators like Iraq the "greatest threat to the arms control regime and the rule of law."
"We need an international community that won't play Pontius Pilate whenever there are obstacles to taking action," he said at the Washington meeting. 
Others say developments in technology -- biotechnology, in particular -- threaten to render current treaties unenforceable. "Advances in technology are moving too fast for international treaties, or even domestic legislation, to catch up," said Jean P. du Preez, a former South African diplomat who directs a nonproliferation program at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute, which sponsored the California meeting last month. "And the germ weapons treaty has no enforcement mechanism at all." 
Could thousands of new, small, mobile germ production facilities throughout the world ever be monitored to ensure that terrorists don't use them? And if nations do not need to stockpile vast quantities of microorganisms and chemicals for weapons, relying instead on fast new production techniques, could treaties stop them? Probably not, many experts agreed, including some of the staunchest defenders of the current arms control system. 
Indeed, many criticized loopholes in the treaties, noting that Iran and North Korea used the antinuclear treaty -- which was supposed to deter states from acquiring nuclear weapons -- to secure that very atomic technology and expertise. 
Analysts say arms control is also being undermined by "secondary proliferation," the sale or trading of goods and expertise by states like Pakistan to would-be possessors of unconventional arms. 
While Washington suspects nearly a dozen countries of violating the treaties banning chemical and biological weapons, officials concede that they usually lack "smoking gun" evidence of such cheating. 
Still, most experts agree that the existing arms control regime, for all its faults, is vital to stop the most dangerous states and groups from getting the most dangerous weapons. But there is less agreement on how to respond to the new challenges.
Ashton B. Carter, a former assistant secretary of defense under President Clinton who is now co-director of the Harvard-Stanford Preventive Defense Project, argues for a major renovation of arms control arrangements. "Our entire tool box of counterproliferation measures needs overhaul," he said.
Some scholars have focused on how to fix flaws in the treaties, especially the germ weapons treaty. Jonathan B. Tucker, a senior researcher at the Monterey center, said the biological weapons treaty arrived with a "serious birth defect": the lack of a system for verifying that states are abiding by their treaty commitments and for punishing cheaters.
The administration has maintained that talks to repair this defect are not working. Instead, it has proposed a list of nine voluntary measures. These include approaches like stricter national control of germ stockpiles, scientific codes of conduct, extradition agreements and the criminalization of germ theft. 
While Mr. Tucker applauds such steps, he says they do not go far enough. Both he and other germ weapons experts want Washington to concentrate more on increasing disease control in the United States and abroad, and to do more to secure stockpiles of dangerous pathogens.
Weak security at biological, chemical and nuclear sites in the former Soviet Union and elsewhere worries William C. Potter, director of the Monterey Institute. In a recent paper, he warned that terrorists could use such unsecured stockpiles of highly enriched uranium to make an "improvised nuclear device."
In the early 1990's, Congress approved groundbreaking legislation to secure such sites and stockpiles in the former Soviet Union. Yet despite the success of their Cooperative Threat Reduction program, too little money and effort have been spent on this task, said Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, one of the law's original sponsors. Moreover, despite 9/11, Congress only last month approved $50 million to help secure stockpiles of such dangerous materials beyond the former Soviet Union. "The mindset hasn't sunk in," Senator Lugar said.
Dr. Mohamed ElBaradei, the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the Vienna-based group that inspects nuclear programs, has been pressing nations to submit to tougher spot inspections when international suspicions are aroused. He has also revived an older proposal to internationalize uranium enrichment facilities so that countries like Iran cannot justify producing their own fuel for atomic reactors, an idea that intrigues both Russia and the United States.
Some analysts call for more sweeping revisions in the nuclear treaty and other major pacts. At the Monterey meeting, Rebecca Johnson, director of the Acronym Institute for Disarmament Diplomacy, a London-based center, argued for reexamining one of the grand bargains at the heart of the nonproliferation treaty: an offer of technical assistance to nonnuclear countries that seek to establish peaceful nuclear energy programs while renouncing nuclear weapons.
She noted that Iran and North Korea used the treaty's technical assistance to acquire a nuclear option. "Such a deal on nuclear technological assistance may have made sense in 1968," Ms. Johnson said. "But does it today?" 
Mr. Potter and others are pessimistic about changing the nuclear treaty ground rules this late in the game. He argued that nonnuclear states can correctly point to another lapse in the treaty: the failure of the United States and Russia to move more rapidly toward disarmament. 
One of the Bush administration's responses to the growing proliferation threat that has won praise from many defenders of current arms control measures is the Proliferation Security Initiative, which recruits nations to interdict the international transport of illicit nuclear supplies. 
No matter what their political affiliation, defense experts say these sorts of creative supplements are needed.
As George Perkovich, a scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said, "Diplomats from Kofi Annan to Henry Kissinger agree that we need new guidelines for the pre-emptive and preventive use of military force to stop proliferation."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Experts are increasingly worried about terrorists' acquiring nuclear weapons like these Minuteman III warheads. (Photo by James A. Sugar/Corbis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (94%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TERRORISM (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); ANTHRAX (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); AL-QAEDA (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%) ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%); CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION (57%); NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%)

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MILLER, JUDITH; CIRINCIONE, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); INDIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAQ; INDIA; PAKISTAN; NORTH KOREA; ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



145 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
U.S. Gained Fewer Jobs Than Expected Last Month
The nation's employers displayed an unexpected reluctance in November to hire more workers, despite the improving economy and rising demand for what they sell.
 The work force grew by 57,000 jobs last month, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported, and the unemployment rate fell to 5.9 percent from 6 percent in October. Page A1. 

Air Force Still Sought Boeing Deal
Even after Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld expressed concern last month about improprieties in a proposed $20 billion contract with Boeing, the Air Force's top acquisitions official, Marvin R. Sambur, left, distributed messages urging that the deal be signed "A.S.A.P.," according to internal Pentagon e-mail messages. The messages provide new evidence of how the Air Force worked with Boeing to promote the deal. A1.

New Cancer Drug Shows Promise
Doctors reported that a new drug called Abraxane, which delivers a widely used cancer medicine in a novel way, significantly improved the medicine's effectiveness while avoiding some of the side effects. C4.

Wal-Mart Alters Mexican Economy
Wal-Mart has become the biggest private employer in Mexico and is changing Mexico the same way it changed the retail landscape of the United States. A1.
Demand for Flu Vaccine Strong
The nation's two vaccine makers, AventisPasteur and Chiron, said they had shipped out all the vaccine they had made, a total of about 80 million doses. A12.

Judge Rejects Oscar Movie Ban
A federal judge overturned a ban by the Motion Picture Association of America on the distribution of copies of new movies to critics and groups that present awards. B7.

US Airways to Revise Strategy
US Airways, which emerged from bankruptcy protection this year, told employees that it must revise its business plan to combat the threat from low-fare airlines. C3.

Another Setback for Stewart
In a setback for Martha Stewart, a judge ruled that her lawyers would not be able to question an assistant to her stockbroker before Ms. Stewart is tried on charges stemming from her sale of shares in ImClone Systems. C15.

Stocks Decline on Jobs Report
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 8.22 points, to 1,061.50, after a government report showed that the economy added fewer jobs last month than was forecast. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 68.14 points, to 9,862.68, and the Nasdaq composite index slid 30.98 points, to 1,937.82. C5.

A Janus Fund Manager Will Leave
Michael Buchanan, who runs the $768 million Janus High-Yield fund at Janus Capital, will step down in two weeks. C2.

F.D.A. Approves Johnson Drug
The Food and Drug Administration approved Johnson & Johnson's schizophrenia drug, Risperdal, to treat bipolar disorder. C4.

Earnings Rise at Elizabeth Arden
Third-quarter profit increased 3.2 percent at Elizabeth Arden, helping the company repay more of its long-term debt. C3.

Strike Hurts Albertson's Profits
An eight-week strike in Southern California has hurt sales at Albertson's, which reported that third-quarter profit fell 51 percent. C3.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,862.68 down 68.14Nasdaq composite -- 1,937.82 down 30.9810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.23% down 0.14The euro -- $1.2166 up 0.0080The dollar -- 107.65 yen down 0.50 Graph tracks the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index since Jan. 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); VACCINES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (88%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (88%); CANCER (88%); JUDGES (86%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); APPROVALS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (73%); CANCER DRUGS (73%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); STATISTICS (72%); MOVIE REVIEWS (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (69%); FILM (69%); LAWYERS (69%); ANTIVIRALS (68%); AIRLINES (68%); BUSINESS PLANS (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); US FDA APPROVALS (66%); BIOLOGICS MFG (65%); INFLUENZA (65%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (64%); AIR FARES (63%); MUTUAL FUNDS (62%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (81%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (60%); BOEING CO (57%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%)

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (81%); JNJ (NYSE) (60%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); LCC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (81%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (81%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



146 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Bush Calls on James Baker To Tackle Iraqi Debt
President Bush appointed former Secretary of State James A. Baker III to restructure more than $100 billion in Iraq's foreign debt, in effect admitting that the occupation and reconstruction is a more urgent problem than acknowledged. A1

An American soldier and at least two Iraqi civilians were killed when an improvised bomb exploded on a commercial strip in Baghdad. About a dozen Iraqis were wounded. A8

Recent arrests of terror suspects have shown that Al Qaeda and other groups have established a network across Europe that is moving recruits into Iraq to join the insurgency. Evidence indicates that the campaign has become better organized and coordinated in recent months. A8

Powell Meets With Negotiators
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, rebuffing appeals from Israel, met with two peace negotiators who are promoting a shadow agreement on a Palestinian state, and afterward both the State Department and Mr. Powell's guests maintained that their goals were the same. A1

Suicide Bombing in Russia
A suicide bomber set off a devastating explosion inside a crowded commuter train in southern Russia, killing at least 42 passengers. President Vladimir V. Putin denounced it as a terrorist act intended to disrupt parliamentary elections. A3

Taiwan Plans Referendum
President Chen Shui-bian of Taiwan said he planned a referendum calling on China to withdraw ballistic missiles aimed at Taiwan and demanding that China renounce the use of force against the island. A7

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Delivering a Cancer Drug
A new drug that delivers a widely used cancer medicine in a novel way significantly improves the medicine's effectiveness while avoiding many of the serious side effects, according to doctors. C4

NATIONAL A10-12

New Terror Warning Issued After Police Raid in Britain
The Homeland Security Department issued a new terrorism warning to airlines and law-enforcement agencies after a police raid in Britain turned up evidence suggesting that Al Qaeda might try again. A10

A Prosecutor's Violent Death
Jonathan P. Luna, a federal prosecutor in Baltimore whose body was found in rural Pennsylvania, was stabbed 36 times and may have been tortured before he was thrown into a creek to drown, officials said. A10

Democrats Focus on Values
Democratic candidates are seeking to distinguish themselves by discussing values. Much of the presidential campaign so far has focused on the economy or the war in Iraq. A11

Dean Begins New Ad Campaign
Howard Dean, though still in a fierce fight for the Iowa caucuses, is starting an expensive advertising campaign in states with February nominating contests. A11

Possible Flu Vaccine Shortage
Vaccine makers said they had shipped their entire supplies of flu vaccines as flu cases continued to surge in at least 10 states. Health officials sought to determine whether there was enough vaccine left to immunize those in need. A12

Shootings Continue in Ohio
Two more shootings have occurred near Interstate 270 near Columbus since Nov. 25, bringing the number of cases being investigated to 14. A12

A Speaker's Low-Profile Skills
J. Dennis Hastert, rarely seen as a power broker, used the force of personal persuasion to secure passage of the Medicare drug plan bill. A1

EDUCATION

College Board Adds Languages
The College Board's Advanced Placement program is adding four new languages, including Russian. A10

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Snowstorm Sacks Region And Disrupts Travel
The first big snowstorm of the season snarled traffic and left air travelers stranded. More snow is expected. A1

New Jersey Official to Resign
New Jersey's Commissioner of Human Services, Gwendolyn L. Harris, announced that she would resign. The state's child welfare system is reeling from several abuse cases. B1

Acquittal in Murder Trial
A Brooklyn man was acquitted of murder in a case that highlighted the dangers of witness intimidation and fears about cooperating with law enforcement officials. B1

Religous Relic in Manhattan
A piece of the venerated cloak of St. Juan Diego arrived at St. Patrick's Cathedral and took its place on a side altar, culminating a 20-city tour. B3

An Understated Anniversary
The 70th anniversary of the repeal of Prohibition passed with little fanfare at bars around New York. B1

Beliefs B6

Neediest Cases B4

SPORTS D1-8

Olympic Bid Leaders Acquitted
A federal judge acquitted the leaders of Salt Lake City's Olympic bid of charges that they illegally influenced International Olympic Committee members for their votes. D1

ARTS & IDEAS B7-22

Distribution Ban Overturned
A Federal judge overturned a ban by the Motion Picture Association of America on the distribution of copies of new movies to critics and groups that present awards. B7

$2 Million for Manuscript
One of Beethoven's last compositions sold for more than $2 million to a person who asked not to be identified, Sotheby's auction house said. B19

BUSINESS DAY C1-15

Only 57,000 Jobs Created
The nation's employers displayed a reluctance to hire more workers in November, despite the improving economy and rising demand for goods. The work force grew by only 57,000 jobs last month. A1

Stocks fell after the news that the economy added fewer jobs last month than was forecast. The Dow Jones industrials dropped 68.14 points, and the Nasdaq dropped 30.98 points. C5

Wal-Mart Grows in Mexico
Wal-Mart, the biggest corporation in the United States, is the biggest private employer in Mexico. It accounted for nearly half the new jobs there last year. A1

Air Force Official Urges Deal
Pentagon e-mail messages indicate the Air Force's top acquisitions official urged a controversial deal with the Boeing Company to be signed "ASAP" despite concerns from Defense Secretary Rumsfeld. A1

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES C16

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Too few hires, still; unneeded quarrel over Taiwan; going wholesale in Iowa; Verlyn Klinkenborg on rural life: the tame and the wild.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Bridge B16
TV Listings B22
Crossword B16
Weather A16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); VACCINES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EVIDENCE (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); INFLUENZA (83%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); AL-QAEDA (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); CAUCUSES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); REFERENDUMS (70%); CANCER DRUGS (69%); CANCER (69%); ANTIVIRALS (69%); TRAINS (66%); AIRLINES (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); DRUG SHORTAGES (64%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%); BIOLOGICS MFG (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IOWA, USA (79%) IRAQ (96%); TAIWAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



147 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: One More Seat at the Table 

BYLINE:  By Parag Khanna; Parag Khanna is a senior research analyst on global governance at the Brookings Institution.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A special United Nations panel meets this weekend to consider how to make the organization, particularly the Security Council, more effective in a more dangerous world. No nation has more of an interest in its success than the United States. Far from undermining American power, a stronger United Nations can extend American influence while also making unilateral action by the United States unnecessary in the future.
 The search for lasting security in postwar situations -- Iraq, Afghanistan, Liberia, Sudan and Congo -- will require the United States to fundamentally revise its strategy toward global peace enforcement. Only by promoting broad United Nations reform will other countries see incentives in committing to burden-sharing where the United States needs it. And only then will the United Nations be able to tackle the world's other trouble spots, ultimately contributing to America's goals of democratization and counterterrorism. 
 Every country agrees on the need to reform the Security Council, but no single proposal has ever had majority support. What is necessary -- a comprehensive re-evalutaion of the council's membership -- has not been politically feasible. And what has been politically feasible -- adding already overrepresented developed countries -- is not necessary. The United Nations has grown to 191 members from an initial 51, yet the Security Council has been expanded only once, in 1965, to its present 15 members. However, the composition of the Security Council can be made both more democratic and more friendly to the United States if the White House works to win support for a framework that encourages responsible leadership from countries in the world's more volatile regions.
A realistic proposal would continue to have the United States, Russia and China as permanent members, but would include Japan, the largest aid and reconstruction donor, and India, a crucial ally in the war on terror as well as potential contributor of troops. With Japan and India, the United States can work around Chinese intransigence and outweigh Russian opposition.
The French and British seats would be collapsed into one permanent seat for the European Union, to be occupied by the country holding the union's rotating presidency. Having long argued for a strong geopolitical voice for the union, France would face a choice between selfishly blocking this proposal or achieving that vision, under heavy pressure from new powers that stand to gain from such reforms.
Furthermore, a more prominent role for regional organizations would result in deepened diplomacy within them as they work toward common positions. Permanent seats should be allocated to the Organization of American States, the League of Arab States and the nascent African Union, each represented by their members on a rotating basis.
This regional integration could accelerate the creation of regional peacekeeping forces, which could alleviate the strain on American forces in Iraq and the international forces in Afghanistan, as well as to stabilize Colombia and Indonesia. The Security Council has proved far more willing to approve regional peacekeeping efforts like the Nigerian-led mission in the Ivory Coast, particularly as the United Nations' current peacekeepers are thinly stretched in more than a dozen conflict zones.
The inclusion of permanent seats for developing countries and regions would also enhance perceptions of American sincerity toward historically neglected states that truly value their voice in the United Nations.
But most importantly, if the United States sincerely wants a more effective Security Council, it will have to relinquish its veto power in favor of majority voting. No country has more frequently exercised its veto right, while simultaneously denouncing other nations' use of it.
As the United States' image abroad continues to be tarnished by slow progress in securing Iraq and Afghanistan, no step could more greatly contribute to restoring American credibility internationally than a reaffirmation of the commitment to work with, rather than around, a reformed and stronger United Nations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); TERRORISM (68%); ARMED FORCES (62%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); AFRICAN UNION (59%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (59%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) United Nations; European Union; Security Council (Un); Organization of American States; United Nations; League of Arab States; African Union

PERSON: Parag Khanna

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); JAPAN (92%); INDIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); AFRICA (92%); LIBERIA (79%); SUDAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%) Japan; India; Third World and Developing Countries; Russia; China

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



148 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Rumsfeld Visits Georgia to Bind A Partnership With an Ally 

BYLINE:  By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: TBILISI, Georgia, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, the first senior administration official to visit here since a peaceful revolt forced out the government of Eduard A. Shevardnadze, expressed strong support on Friday for Georgia in the face of rising secessionist sentiment and the presence of Russian troops in its territory.
 Mr. Rumsfeld was greeted as a friend, and America acknowledged as an ally, by the acting leadership of this former Soviet republic. As Georgia tries to rebuild a government, control its borders, improve its economy and battle what one Pentagon official called "endemic corruption," relations with the United States, Georgia's acting president, Nino Burdzhanadze, said, "are of principal, main importance for us." 
 The afternoon visit was meant to "underscore America's very strong support for stability and security and the territorial integrity here in Georgia," Mr. Rumsfeld said. "Certainly we stand ready to assist Georgia during the period ahead."
The United States views Georgia as a strategic partner, in part for its location, along an arc of instability in a region thought to be a crossroads for terrorists. A pipeline set to open in 2005 linking Azerbaijan, which Mr. Rumsfeld visited Thursday, and Turkey, NATO's only Islamic member, runs across Georgia, as well. 
Georgia's leaders, describing the desperate state of their temporary government, said the treasury was so empty that they had asked the United States to consider helping pay soldiers' salaries. Satisfying the armed forces is viewed as important to keeping the peace ahead of Jan. 4 elections.
Mr. Rumsfeld sidestepped a question about whether Russia was hoping to take advantage of the collapse of the government of Mr. Shevardnadze to extend its influence over the poor but strategically situated re public.
But Ms. Burdzhanadze, the former speaker of the Parliament, said "certain forces" in Russia were indeed working behind the scenes to undermine Georgia's integrity as a state. She said conflicts with Georgian separatists might have been resolved had Russia not offered them support.
The leaders of three separatist regions of Georgia -- South Ossetia, Abkhazia and Adzharia -- went to Moscow just days after Mr. Shevardnadze's resignation two weeks ago, heightening concerns of a coordinated plan to break away from Georgia under Russia's guidance.
Russia is facing a growing Western presence in its former empire, with NATO expanding along its former satellites in Central and Eastern Europe and the United States solidifying military ties here in the Caucasus republics and Central Asia to battle terrorism. Georgia is of particular interest to Russia, as it borders Russia's separatist region of Chechnya and offers warm water ports on the Black Sea.
Both Mr. Rumsfeld and Ms. Burdzhanadze called on Moscow to honor the tenets of a 1999 treaty and accelerate the removal of about 3,300 Russian troops in Georgia.
"The Istanbul accords call for withdrawal of those forces," Mr. Rumsfeld said.
"That has been the interest and desire of the government of Georgia," he added. Then, exhibiting his art for sardonic understatement, Mr. Rumsfeld said, "And as I recall, Russia agreed to the Istanbul accords -- which would suggest to me that there was unanimity on the subject, and that would suggest to me that it was a pretty good idea." 
The State Department official leading an interagency team now in Georgia to determine the needs of the transitional government said tension between Russia and Georgia had driven Georgia into the American embrace. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); TERRORISM (66%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (59%); CORRUPTION (55%); RELIGION (51%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: Thom Shanker; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; Eduard A (Pres) Shevardnadze

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (55%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); GEORGIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%) Georgia (Georgian Republic); Georgia (Georgian Republic)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



149 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Running for Re-election, Taiwan Leader Takes On China 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER and JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
President Chen Shui-bian of Taiwan said in an interview here on Friday that he planned a referendum next March calling on China to withdraw ballistic missiles aimed at Taiwan and demanding that China renounce the use of force against the island.
 Mr. Chen's insistence on holding a referendum is likely to heighten tensions across the Taiwan Strait -- already at their highest point in several years -- and comes at an awkward time for President Bush, who will receive Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao at the White House next week. 
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell spoke with Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing of China by telephone on Friday, and told reporters afterward that he hoped both sides "will realize where their interests lie and will be careful about what they say." 
China has urged Washington to oppose more firmly what it sees as Mr. Chen's desperate election season gambit to excite antimainland sentiment. The Bush administration has made clear that it does not want a fresh crisis when it is deeply engaged in other hotspots, and depends on China's help to shut down North Korea's nuclear program.
In the interview, Mr. Chen said the referendum would not involve independence, the touchiest issue from the perspective of mainland China. But Beijing has expressed alarm about the precedent of holding any plebiscites on sensitive political topics.
Senior Chinese military officers publicly warned on Wednesday that Taiwan was facing an "abyss of war" and said that China would accept boycotts of the 2008 Beijing Olympics, reduced foreign investment and military casualties to prevent Taiwan from using a referendum to advance independence.
Mr. Chen contended that a referendum would help make people here and countries around the world more aware of what he described as an imminent and growing military threat from China, and that this would reduce the risk of a conflict. "Some argue that holding such a defensive referendum might send our children to the front line," he said. "In fact, the opposite is true."
Many people on both sides of the Taiwan Strait say that the political confrontation between the sides has reached its highest level since 1996, when China lobbed missiles into Taiwan's shipping lanes in an unsuccessful effort to dissuade voters from choosing Lee Teng-hui, a presidential candidate seen by Beijing as seeking greater independence.
Mr. Chen said he planned to hold the referendum on Election Day, on March 20. He is seeking re-election, and is in a race with Lien Chan of the Nationalist Party, who favors a less confrontational approach with China.
Mr. Chen said he had informed the United States of his plans for the referendum, and appealed for support on the grounds that Taiwan's democratic development needed strong American backing. That argument seems likely to elicit sympathy from Taiwan's supporters in Congress and among some neoconservative supporters of the Bush administration.
The State Department has bluntly discouraged Mr. Chen from holding a referendum on independence issues. But the administration has yet to respond to his new initiative to focus the referendum on China's military posture, especially as the precise wording has not yet been set.
In an interview late Friday morning in the reception hall of presidential offices used since Chiang Kai-shek's day, Mr. Chen explained his plans for the referendum. He said the question posedon ballots "could be for the 23 million people of Taiwan to demand that China immediately withdraw the missiles targeting Taiwan and openly renounce the use of force against Taiwan."
Investing some of the money from a booming economy, China has rapidly increased its arsenal of ballistic missiles and put many of them in easy striking range of Taiwan.
Although American and Taiwanese experts believe the missiles to be conventionally armed, Mr. Chen compared the danger they posed to Taiwan with the threat faced by the United States during the Cuban missile crisis.
Mr. Chen repeatedly spoke of Taiwan's struggle to build a full democracy and called the referendum a historic first for Taiwan. He pointed out that efforts to bring democratic institutions to the island, suppressed for decades under martial law, were always met with opposition from mainland China and the then-governing Nationalist Party.
"The holding of a referendum is a milestone in our democratic consolidation and the deepening of Taiwan's democracy," he said.
But Mr. Chen's critics at home and abroad accuse him of taking dangerous risks with Taiwan's security to bolster his own re-election prospects. His Democratic Progressive Party has not gone as far in pursuing formal independence for the island as some of the party's core supporters would like, and the referendum could increase turnout among such voters.
China is unlikely to back down in the face of Mr. Chen's referendum, a Chinese expert said.
"If he wants China to remove the missiles, it's very easy," Xu Shiquan, a former head of the Taiwan Research Institute in Beijing and a prominent adviser to China's leaders on Taiwan issues, said in a telephone interview when told of Mr. Chen's plans for the referendum. "He needs to forswear independence."
Mr. Xu added, "The impact of a referendum may be the opposite -- we may need to increase our military strength because of growing fears that Taiwan is moving toward independence."
China had no official comment on Friday night.
Mr. Lien, the Nationalist Party's chairman and presidential candidate, criticized Mr. Chen in a separate interview on Friday, saying, "This is no time for our government to provoke the Chinese Communists on the mainland and create a situation of tension that will endanger the 23 million people on this island."
For years, Independence advocates have called for referendums as a way to bypass constitutional barriers to legal independence. After months of discussion this autumn, the Legislature passed a bill written mostly by the Nationalist Party that limited the ability of the president to call a referendum except when the country is "facing an external threat which may jeopardize national sovereignty."
Mr. Chen said the missiles posed just such a threat. Mr. Lien said the Nationalist Party disagreed and had been surprised that Mr. Chen was moving so swiftly to use the clause, which the Nationalists had supported only as a last resort in a genuine crisis.
"We have a sense of betrayal," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Taiwan's leader, Chen Shui-bian, wants a referendum on China. (Photo by Justin Guariglia/Contact, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (92%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); BOYCOTTS (65%); OLYMPICS (65%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (55%) United States International Relations; Referendums; Politics and Government ; Missiles and Missile Defense Systems; Elections; Election Issues 

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%) Keith Bradsher; Joseph Kahn; Chen Shui-Bian (Pres); Wen Jiabao (Prime Min)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) Taiwan; China; Taiwan

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



150 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Westchester Medical Center May Lay Off 200 Workers 

BYLINE:  By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: VALHALLA, N.Y., Dec. 5 

 BODY:
Officials at Westchester Medical Center say they may have to lay off as many as 200 employees in the coming weeks to help stem continuing losses at the county's premier hospital.
 The medical center would not give a precise number of positions to be eliminated, but the amount of money saved is expected to be about double what was saved with a round of layoffs in March, when 110 workers were let go. The new personnel cuts, which will touch every department, are to save $16.5 million in pay and benefits, whereas the March layoffs yielded $8 million in savings. 
 The medical center, the most extensive advanced-care hospital between New York City and Albany, has been losing money in recent years. Last year, it had a $64 million budget shortage, and this year hospital administrators are projecting a gap of more than $30 million. 
Medical center officials said a mix of forces were to blame, from the lower reimbursements under managed care to rising insurance costs to steeply higher contributions to the state's pension system.
"We've cut the deficit in half this year,but we've got to keep going," said Marilyn J. Slatten, the medical center's chief administrative officer. "We have to get to where we break even in order to keep the hospital viable."
Word of additional layoffs sent a wave of anxiety through the 3,800 employees. Freda Harlon has worked at the medical center for five years as a clerk in the recovery unit. She is a single mother who lives in an apartment in New Rochelle with her four children, who range in age from 11 months to 11 years.
"Everyone's concerned," Ms. Harlon said outside the center's main entrance here, her voice trembling with emotion. "It's the holidays. No one wants to be out of a job. I'm worried."
Ms. Slatten met with union representatives on Thursday to tell them about the layoffs and to float the idea of "givebacks," in which union members sacrifice provisions in their collective bargaining agreement, like overtime, pay or benefits. But on Friday, a spokesman for the nurses' union said the idea was not attractive to members.
"It would be one thing if we gave back all of these items and it would stop the layoffs," said Mark A. Genovese, a spokesman for the New York State Nurses Association, which represents 1,500 registered nurses at the medical center. "But in this case there would be no guarantees. At this point, they haven't promised us anything."
The layoffs in March affected employees who did not care directly for patients, but now staff members who do can expect to receive pink slips, Ms. Slatten said. Still, she asserted that the cuts would not compromise the institution's position as the anchor of Westchester County's health care network. "Is there an effect on the quality of care?" Ms. Slatten asked. "Absolutely not."
But union officials say further job losses will harm patient care. "Already, they can't answer all the bells on time," Mr. Genovese said of the nurses. "If you cut even more staff away, this is going to be unbearable."
He added that the medical center "keeps selling itself as a world-class facility" and yet was not maintaining the "internal operations to make that claim."
In 1997, Westchester Medical Center spun off from the county government to become a public benefit corporation, just as the financial picture for health care institutions was growing ever more murky.
Since March the medical center has managed to save $35 million through a variety of measures, from layoffs to reducing the average length of stay to recycling operating equipment. Yet it still owes $12 million to New York Medical College, which shares the campus here and sponsors the residency program.
Richard L. Brodsky, a state assemblyman who wrote the statute dissolving the center's ties with the county, praised the center for not resorting to budgetary gimmicks.
"This is an institution that can and will be turned around," Mr. Brodsky said. "It continues to provide extraordinary world-class medicine. They have significant short-term problems, but they are solvable, and to their credit they are not ducking them."
Mr. Brodsky said he had firsthand knowledge of the hospital since his daughter had a kidney transplant there eight years ago. "They do a superb job," he said.
But he said that in hindsight the center should not have acquired the troubled Ellenville Regional Hospital in Ulster County, an action that was taken at the state's request. 
At first, the relationship worked. But as the economy worsened, the finances of the Ellenville hospital deteriorated; three weeks ago, it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. "It became obvious that it wasn't going to be able to sustain itself without reorganization," Ms. Slatten said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Westchester Medical Center, which intends to let go of as many as 200 employees to surmount a deficit. Left, Freda Harlon, who has worked for five years as a clerk in the recovery unit, is a single mother with four children. She said she was worried about her job security. (Photo by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (93%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); OVERTIME (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (78%); BUDGETS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%) Medicine and Health; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Labor; Hospitals; Wages and Salaries; Fringe Benefits

ORGANIZATION: Westchester Medical Center

PERSON: Lisa W Foderaro

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



151 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Grasping at the S tatistics on the Self-Employed 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
The self-employed came to the rescue last month, and the result was that the unemployment rate came down even as companies were hiring fewer people than most economists had expected.
 The self-employed are a group that statisticians have a hard time dealing with, and the apparent growth in that group may or may not be a good sign for the economy. Some people who say they are self-employed may really be out of work and trying to bring in money as consultants or freelance workers. Others may be doing very well, living a dream of boss-free success. 
 In any case, the government reported that the number of self-employed workers rose by 156,000 last month, to 9.2 million. That gain was a primary reason that the unemployment rate dropped to 5.9 percent.
The number of people on nonfarm payrolls -- a number that excludes the self-employed -- rose just 57,000, far less than expected, and that led most analysts to call the report a disappointment.
But John Vail, a senior strategist of Mizuho Securities USA, disagreed. "This is quite a strong employment report," he said. "Nonfarm payrolls were disappointing, but when combining with the rise in self-employed, which include many Internet-based entrepreneurs, the number was very healthy."
Mr. Vail's examples of such entrepreneurs included spammers, the people who fill e-mail in boxes with unwanted mail. It is not clear how many of them there are, but there is no doubt most Americans would be quite happy if there were fewer.
The government collects two sets of employment data every month, a source of endless confusion because the two surveys sometimes provide widely varying pictures of the health of the job market. Add in the fact that some of the statistics, but not all, are seasonally adjusted, and confusion can easily reign.
The survey to which Wall Street pays the most attention is the establishment survey, which questions employers about how many people are on payrolls. It is that survey that provided disappointments this month, as it has done for most of the last few years. But the report of strong growth a month ago set off hopes that the employment picture was finally brightening.
That number shows 328,000 more jobs last month than in July, when employment hit its recent low. Even with those increases, there are now 2.26 million fewer jobs, on a seasonally adjusted basis, then there were in January 2001 when President Bush took office.
The other survey is the household survey, which involves asking questions of a sample of households reached each month by telephone. That survey is used to calculate the unemploymentrate, and in recent years it has painted a less depressing picture of the employment situation.
The latest report finds that there are now 757,000 more people working than in January 2001, on a seasonally adjusted basis. That survey shows a seasonally adjusted gain over the last two months of 1 million people working, the largest two-month move since the first two months of 2000, at the peak of the economic boom.
Robert Barbera, the chief economist of ITG/Hoenig Securities, said there were other statistics, like a strong report on factory orders released yesterday, that indicated that the economy was improving. "I expect the establishment survey will fall in line," he said.
One measure of employment is the percentage of people 16 years and older who are working, a statistic based on the household survey. During the boom, that rose to a record 64.8 percent in April 2000. It fell to a low of 62 percent in September and has now edged back to 62.4 percent.
Such moves may seem tiny, but they involve a lot of people. If 64.8 percent of the working-age population still was working, total employment would be more than five million people greater than it actually is.
In any case, the rise in self-employment seems to be one bright spot. The increase of 156,000 self-employed workers means they now account for 6.6 percent of the people in the household survey who say they are working, up from 6.1 percent when President Bush took office.
Without that growth, it would be far harder to put a rosy tint on the employment record. But with them, it is possible to point to one government survey that indicates that more people are working now than at any time before.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 9, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Saturday showing the cumulative change in the number of people employed since January 2001 carried an incorrect scale. The figures were in millions, not hundreds of thousands.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Employment Surveys Tell Different Tales"For most of the last two years, the household survey conducted by the Labor Department has shown a brighter picture than the establishment survey, which reflects reports by employers on their payrolls. One reason for that is the growth in self-employed workers, who are not picked up by the establishment survey. But even though that survey shows more people working then ever, it also shows that the proportion of the working-age population with jobs has only started to recover. Employment has risen . . . Graph tracks the cumulative change in number employed since January 2001, the previous peak (seasonally adjusted). . . . and more people are working for themselves . . . Graph tracks the percentage of working people in the household survey who say they are self-employed (not seasonally adjusted) since 2001. . . . but the percentage of the population that is working has fallen. Graph tracks the percentage of population, 16 and older, with jobs (seasonally adjusted) since 2001. (Sources by Department of Labor, Haver Analytics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Economic Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (73%); EMAIL MARKETING (69%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (69%) Labor; Unemployment; Working at Home; United States Economy; Hiring and Promotion; Consultants; United States Economy; Labor

COMPANY: MIZUHO SECURITIES CO LTD (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%) Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



152 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Europeans Plan to Press For Tariffs Against U.S.

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL; Elizabeth Becker and Richard W. Stevenson contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: LONDON, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
One day after President Bush abandoned American protective tariffs on imported steel to avert a trade war with Europe, Pascal Lamy, the European trade commissioner, said he would use the same tactics again in another long-running trade dispute with the United States. 
 Mr. Lamy said the European Union would press ahead with punitive tariffs on some $4 billion worth of goods from politically pivotal regions of the United States if Washington did not end tax breaks for American corporations' offshore operations. The tax breaks have already been found by the World Trade Organization to be an illegal export subsidy. 
 Mr. Lamy's remarks reflected assessments by some European trade experts that after the American retreat on steel, the power balance of global trade had shifted in Europe's favor. 
"We in Europe, by standing together, by using the World Trade Organization and saying we're going to uphold the rules of world trade, we've played our hand very, very effectively indeed," said Patricia Hewitt, Britain's trade minister.
In a telephone interview from Brussels, Mr. Lamy said the outcome of the steel dispute should demonstrate that Europe "punches its weight." 
"It's a message sent within Europe," he said. "It's a basic lesson: union equals might and strength. It's why we are building Europe."
In fact, though, the euphoria of the moment -- a rare instance of the European Union's besting the United States in a trade dispute -- seemed to cloud two other issues that have as much bearing on the future of trans-Atlantic and global trade as the steel dispute.
One is the stalled negotiations on a new world trade agreement. The World Trade Organization's 148 member nations have yet to restart the talks formally, after the collapse of their ministerial gathering in Cancun, Mexico, in September. 
And, although senior officials of the organization are scheduled to meet at its headquarters in Geneva on Dec. 15 to discuss the situation, many trade experts say that the setback in Cancun may mean that the negotiations will fail to meet a Jan. 1, 2005, deadline for reaching a broad new agreement to lower farm subsidies and open markets.
"We are ready to negotiate," Mr. Lamy said. "The problem is that there is no negotiation."
More immediately, though, a deadline of March 1, 2004, looms for the United States to comply with another W.T.O. ruling in the offshore tax-break dispute. As in the steel case, the trade organization -- which functions both as a negotiating forum and as an adjudicator of disputes -- has ruled against the United States and in favor of the European Union. 
President Bush's decision to lift the protective steel tariffs he had imposed in 2002 headed off a threat of reprisals against some $2.2 billion in American exports, directed specifically at the economies of states like Florida and Michigan that are expected to be crucial to President Bush's hopes for re-election next year. 
In the offshore tax-break dispute, the European Union has said it will begin to impose progressive tariffs starting next March on up to $4 billion worth of goods, beginning with a 5 percent tariff and increasing 1 percentage point each month to a total of 17 percent. Again, the targets of the tariff have been chosen for their potential political effect.
A trade negotiator in Geneva who spoke on condition of anonymity said the dispute "is hanging like the sword of Damocles."
In the telephone interview, Mr. Lamy said the European Union planned to go ahead with the reprisals if the United States authorities "have not complied -- which we hope they will do" by the March 1 deadline. Europe, he said, would "proceed with the sort of clear, constant and predictable behavior" it used in the steel dispute to persuade Washington to comply. 
The World Trade Organization made no formal statement in reaction to President Bush's decision to withdraw the steel tariffs, in line with the organization's desire to be seen as a neutral arbiter of global trade. But trade experts in Geneva said that the American retreat on steel was likely to be interpreted as a huge boost for the organization's credibility -- and to its ability to promote the liberalization of world trade -- at a time when the collapse of the Cancun talks had left it in the doldrums.
By being seen to force a major trade power to fall in line with its rules, the organization countered criticisms that it functioned as a club for rich countries to subjugate poor ones, these experts said. Conversely, Mr. Lamy said that further defiance from the United States on the steel dispute would have been dangerous for the organization. "If the big guys in the system use it this way, it's a very bad precedent for the others," he said.
After making only muted public statements on Thursday, senior American executives in the steel industry lashed out on Friday at the United States trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, saying he had not done enough to challenge the World Trade Organization ruling or fight back against the European retaliation plan.
"At the end of the day, the president was poorly served by his advisers at the United States trade representative, particularly given the gloating and the swaggering on the part of Pascal Lamy and his colleagues," said Terrence D. Straub, senior vice president of U.S. Steel. "The other side always seemed to be one step ahead of the United States trade representative."
Mr. Straub, in a phone interview initiated by U.S. Steel, said he was in Paris trying to negotiate with European and other nations over reducing government subsidies to steel makers and cutting global overcapacity in the industry. Mr. Bush's decision on Thursday to back down in the face of Europe's threats, he said, had led to an immediate "hardening of positions" on the part of the Europeans in the Paris talks.
Daniel DiMicco, chief executive of Nucor, also criticized the performance of Mr. Zoellick and his team.
"I don't think U.S.T.R. used all the avenues available to them as they promised they would two years ago, in face-to-face meetings, to deal with the E.U. response," he said in a phone interview he initiated. "We tried to get them to recognize thatthey had other avenues available to them, and apparently they chose to ignore it."
Mr. DiMicco said he and other industry executives now suspected that the administration imposed the tariffs solely as a tactical move to help build support in Congress last year for granting the president authority to negotiate new trade agreements. Mr. Bush later won the authority, which Congress had denied to President Bill Clinton.
"There's obviously a very strong feeling in the industry that we were used to get trade promotion authority passed," he said. "Once they got that passed, they didn't live up to their commitments to the industry. In particular, that has to do with the U.S.T.R."
Asked about the criticism of Mr. Zoellick, John Veroneau, general counsel for the trade representative's office, said: "The president ended his safeguards because upon review it worked and the situation improved. These guys are still wrongly fixated on E.U. retaliation instead of the main issues."
"If the safeguards had been maintained, we would have vigorously pursued this matter further in the W.T.O.," he added.
Some trade experts ascribe the European Union's success on steel to fast footwork by Mr. Lamy himself. He was quick to move Europe into a leadership position, along with several Asian nations and Brazil, in challenging the American tariffs after they were imposed 21 months ago. 
Mr. Lamy repeatedly made clear, moreover, that the European Union was serious about reprisals. "My simple goal is compliance," he said in an interview during a visit to Washington on Nov. 4. "I will not change our deadlines."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The World Trade Organization, which is based in Geneva, has already determined that Washington's tax breaks for American corporations' offshore operations are an illegal export subsidy. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DISPUTES (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (76%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%) International Trade and World Market; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%) European Union; World Trade Organization

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Alan Cowell; Pascal Lamy

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); MEXICO (92%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



153 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: New Haven Debates New Limits on All-Night Shops 

BYLINE:  By STACEY STOWE

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
At 2 a.m., a shivering girl whispers for a condom, a free one, through the narrow slot of the bulletproof glass at the Exxon Tiger Mart, but the cashier just laughs and waves her away. He is already enduring the man in a wheelchair, buying nothing but time, and the wobbly banter and rants of people plunking down coins for lottery tickets and single cigars that they convert into joints, and his patience must last until sunrise.
 The all-night market, a beacon of heat, junk food and last-minute sundries, is a landlocked lighthouse to the dozens of people who navigate these cold city streets. Yet city aldermen say 24-hour businesses also unintentionally foster robberies, fights and drug deals, and leave the surrounding neighborhoods noisier and dirtier. 
 On Dec. 23, city aldermen will consider a proposal to prohibit the opening of any 24-hour business, including gun, pawn and sex shops or video arcades, in residential and commercial zones without a public hearing.
At least one alderman, Mae Ola Riddick, whose district includes Yale University and several all-night businesses, said she was considering tightening requirements for existing businesses, including compelling business owners to hire private security and to clean their parking lots each night.
"I'm concerned about people getting robbed and garbage everywhere," she said, "and yet I know the owners are just trying to make a living."
Regulating all-night businesses is a perennial consideration for this city of 124,000 people, which struggles with the serious crime and quality-of-life issues common to urban areas. Proposals were last earnestly researched in 1999, but no ordinance was approved. A perceived spike in crime from 11 p.m. to 6 a.m. has moved the issue to the front burner.
New Haven is not alone. 
In Connecticut, West Hartford has sought to limit new 24-hour businesses not through a blanket ordinance, but case by case.
A senior research fellow at the American Planning Association, Stuart Meck, said he had received 35 queries from cities across the country about how to limit 24-hour businesses.
Their concerns are similar: how to balance the needs of a business and the quality-of-life issues of neighboring residents. Mr. Meck said the existence of round-the-clock markets reflects public needs.
"Many people don't lead 'Leave It to Beaver' lives," he said. "Town boards need to understand that people work night shifts or two jobs or they don't have cars, yet they need to get something at the market."
In fact, more than a dozen people interviewed here at late-night stores said the markets were essential to those without cars and in need of items late at night.
Although violent crime in New Haven has decreased about 50 percent in the last decade, there were 89 shootings in the city so far this year, 42 between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m., said a spokeswoman for the New Haven Police Department, Bonnie Winchester. Fifty-five businesses were robbed at gunpoint, 13 between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. Specific statistics for the same period last year were unavailable, Ms. Winchester said.
Four years ago, a shooting at Dixwell Deli, a convenience store in the city's Newhallville neighborhood that used to be open 24 hours, left one man dead and another wounded. In response, the market, an Aladdin's cave stacked to the rafters with candy, chips and other merchandise, now closes at midnight or 1 a.m., customers said. Police said a 17-year-old was shot near the deli on Nov. 2, at 1 a.m.
Karyn M. Gilvarg, the executive director of the City Plan Department, which researched and wrote recommendations for the new ordinance, said neighbors of all-night markets often endure late-night noise and morning litter, and dangers associated with the drug trade.
But business owners like Pervaiz Ahmed, who owns the Tiger Mart, say good lighting, cameras and alarm systems offset dangers. Gerry Katz, 58, who has owned the Shell Food Mart on Willow Street for 22 years, estimated that 20 percent of his profits are culled during the 11 p.m. to 6 a.m. shift. He railed against any proposal to regulate 24-hour stores and promised he would hire a lawyer, something he did in 1999.
"Someone six blocks away with no car still needs baby formula in the middle of the night," he said. "We provide a service." Yet one of his cashiers, Danny Patel, recalled being robbed at gunpoint two years ago; the robbery, he said, prompted his boss to install more cameras.
Mayor John DeStefano , who favors the proposed ordinance, stressed that it would apply to new businesses. "This won't affect you if you're already up and running, but people aren't hearing that," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Dixwell Deli in New Haven still bears a sign saying it is open 24 hours a day, but after a fatal shooting there four years ago, the deli has been closing at midnight or 1 a.m. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (88%); LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (77%); TRENDS (76%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (75%); ORDINANCES (74%); ROBBERY (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); CITIES (74%); ZONING (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); APPROVALS (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); LOTTERIES (56%) Crime and Criminals; Social Conditions and Trends; Working Hours; Economic Conditions and Trends; Zoning; Waste Materials and Disposal; Littering

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: Stacey Stowe

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) New Haven (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



154 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 88 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Malaysia:Exports Rise 

BYLINE:  By Wayne Arnold (NYT)

 BODY:
 Exports from Malaysia rose 7.2 percent in October compared with the same month a year ago to 34.2 billion ringgit ($9 billion), their highest level since September 2000, according to government figures. 
Shipments to the United States rose to their highest level since July 2002, according to the data. After posting what economists said was weak export data in August and September, Malaysia's latest export figures have helped allay fears that the country was being left behind by Asia's export recovery. Wayne Arnold (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%) International Trade and World Market

PERSON: Wayne Arnold

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA (96%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (90%) Malaysia

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



155 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 96 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Canada: Increase In Employment 

BYLINE:  By Bernard Simon (NYT)

 BODY:
 Employment in Canada grew during November for the third month in a row, the national statistics agency said, confirming signs of an economic rebound. 
The unemployment rate dipped to 7.5 percent, from 7.6 percent in October and 8 percent in September. The 54,000 jobs created last month brought the total since August to 168,000, more than three times the number created in the first eight months of the year. With business activity quickening in the United States, analysts have recently lifted their estimates for growth north of the border in 2004. Bernard Simon (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); STATISTICS (88%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%) Labor; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Economy; Hiring and Promotion

PERSON: Bernard Simon

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



156 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 56 words

HEADLINE: Corrections 

 BODY:
 Because of an editing error, an article and a picture caption on Monday in the special Outlook issue of Business Day about the effect of unemployment on families misspelled the name of the hometown of Richie Calladio-Nuzzo, who found a job at a lower wage and without benefits after being unemployed. It is Newtown, Conn., not Newton.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (84%) Labor; Correction Stories; Unemployment

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



157 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Invades, and Mexico Gladly Surrenders 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
The company that ate America is now swallowing Mexico.
 Wal-Mart, the biggest corporation in the United States, is already the biggest private employer in Mexico, with 100,164 workers on its payroll here as of last week. Last year, when it gained its No. 1 status in employment, it created about 8,000 new positions -- nearly half the permanent new jobs in this struggling country. 
 Wal-Mart's power is changing Mexico in the same way it changed the economic landscape of the United States, and with the same formula: cut prices relentlessly, pump up productivity, pay low wages, ban unions, give suppliers the tightest possible profit margins and sell everything under the sun for less than the guy next door.
"This is the game that Wal-Mart has played in the United States," said Diana Farrell, director of McKinsey Global Institute, a policy research group run by the international business consultancy McKinsey & Company. "They've changed the name of the game in Mexico." 
In the United States and Western Europe, Wal-Mart has been accused of driving down wages, introducing cut-throat business practices and bankrupting local companies.
But in Mexico's dreary economy, foreign investment, especially American investment, is about the only bright light, and many Mexicans know it. Cries of economic and cultural imperialism, rampant 10 years ago, when the North American Free Trade Agreement took hold, are more muted now.
"Part of globalization is adopting the methods and customs of another country," said Francisco Rivero, an economic analyst in Mexico City.
Though it came to this country only 12 years ago, Wal-Mart is doing more business -- closing in on $11 billion a year -- than the entire tourism industry. Wal-Mart sells $6 billion worth of food a year, more than anyone else in Mexico. In fact, it sells more of almost everything than almost anyone. Economists say its price cuts actually drive down the country's rate of inflation.
Last year, 585 million people -- nearly six times the population of Mexico -- passed through its check-out lanes. With 633 outlets, Wal-Mart's Mexican operations are by far the biggest outside the United States.
Its sales represent about 2 percent of Mexico's gross domestic product -- almost the same as in the United States. Analysts say it now controls something approaching 30 percent of all supermarket food sales in Mexico, and about 6 percent of all retail sales -- also about the same as in the United States.
Though Wal-Mart is not the only game in town, it is the biggest, and its bigness is crushing its supermarket competitors. Its methods are creating "a radical change" in the way business is done here, Ms. Farrell said.
"Wal-Mart has changed the retail market in Mexico," said Raul Arguelles, a Wal-Mart vice president in Mexico City. "Every store manager has authority to lower prices if he sees the store across the street selling for less. If you have to lower the price, you lower it."
For Mexicans trying to compete with Wal-Mart, a new business culture is emerging, based on those hard-nosed, sometimes cut-throat tactics. For Mexicans with money to spend, a new consumer culture is rising, along with the sales of McDonald's hamburgers and Domino's pizzas (the three favorite toppings here are jalapeno peppers, ham and pineapple).
The marketplace is making Mexico look more like the United States, like it or not.
"From the commercial point of view, it's a total convergence," said Luis de la Calle, who was a chief Nafta negotiator. "If you go to a supermarket in Mexico, the type of products, the service they give you, it's just like you find in the United States or Canada, in terms of variety, quality and price."
Wal-Mart shoppers here have become attuned to the company's smiley-face logo and its mantra of "Everyday Low Prices." At a Mexico City shopping center, Plaza Tepeyac, Jose Carrillo, 36, wended his way through the aisles on a weekday morning, admiring how neatly the merchandise was displayed.
"Sometimes I go to the street markets and sometimes I come here," said Mr. Carrillo, an administrative aide, who lives three blocks from a Wal-Mart. "Sure, I know Wal-Mart is a multinational company, but what are you going to do? That's globalization, and Mexico has to play the game, right? Maybe some of the profit leaves Mexico, but Mexico gets back some foreign investment, right? That's how things work. It doesn't matter to me if I'm buying from a multinational company, as long as they give me what I want."
Wal-Mart opened its first American store in 1962 and started its international expansion in 1991, when it began to build and buy its way into Mexico. Half its Mexican operations now are here in the capital, the other half in cities across the country, from Tijuana to Cancun.
Its 81 Wal-Mart stores and 52 Sam's Club outlets now ring up close to $6 billion a year. Annual sales at its Superama and Bodega supermarkets approach $4 billion. Wal-Mart also runs 52 Suburbia department stores and 267 Vips restaurants, with close to $1 billion a year in sales.
Wal-Mart has also become the largest retailer in Canada, and has outlets in Argentina, Brazil, Germany, South Korea, Puerto Rico and Britain. The global expansion has helped make it the world's biggest company in terms of revenues, with $245 billion in sales last year -- a sum greater than the economies of all but 30 of the world's nations. Nowhere outside the United States are its stores as numerous as in Mexico, where the scope and scale of its operations have grown to resemble its dominion in the United States.
Wal-Mart says that it treats its Mexican employees so well that the workers want no union, and that it pays its workers better than do its Mexican competitors.
However, in the United States, a unionized supermarket worker makes, on average, about $19 an hour. At Wal-Mart, where there are no unions, that worker makes about $9 an hour. In Mexico, for a newly hired Wal-Mart cashier, the pay stub reads about $1.50 a hour.

<ILSChart/Map: "Wal-Mart Around the World"
Mexico was the site of Wal-Mart's first international store, and has the most stores of any country other than the United States.

COUNTRY: United States
TOTAL STORES: 3,499
TOTAL EMPLOYEES: 1,200,000
YEAR ENTERED MARKET: 1962

COUNTRY: Mexico
TOTAL STORES: 633
TOTAL EMPLOYEES: 100,164
YEAR ENTERED MARKET: 1991

COUNTRY: Britain
TOTAL STORES: 266
TOTAL EMPLOYEES: 127,800
YEAR ENTERED MARKET: 1999

COUNTRY: Canada
TOTAL STORES: 225
TOTAL EMPLOYEES: 58,000
YEAR ENTERED MARKET: 1994

COUNTRY: Germany
TOTAL STORES: 92
TOTAL EMPLOYEES: 13,000
YEAR ENTERED MARKET: 1998

COUNTRY: Puerto Rico*
TOTAL STORES: 53
TOTAL EMPLOYEES: 11,600
YEAR ENTERED MARKET: 1992

COUNTRY: China
TOTAL STORES: 31
TOTAL EMPLOYEES: 16,000
YEAR ENTERED MARKET: 1996

COUNTRY: Brazil
TOTAL STORES: 25
TOTAL EMPLOYEES: 6,600
YEAR ENTERED MARKET: 1995

COUNTRY: South Korea
TOTAL STORES: 15
TOTAL EMPLOYEES: 2,800
YEAR ENTERED MARKET: 1998

COUNTRY: Argentina
TOTAL STORES: 11
TOTAL EMPLOYEES: 4,200
YEAR ENTERED MARKET: 1995

*Puerto Rico, a territory of the United States, falls under Wal-Marts International Division

(Source by Wal-Mart and Wal-Mart de Mxico)(pg. A9)

Map of the World highlighting areas with the most Walmarts. (pg. A9)

CORRECTION-DATE: January 3, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 6 about Wal-Mart's expansion into Mexico and a chart showing the company's worldwide reach referred imprecisely to its holdings. Some stores operate under other names, including Sam's Club; not all are called Wal-Mart.
A chart on Dec. 6 showing Wal-Mart's worldwide reach, with an article about the company's expansion into Mexico, referred imprecisely to its holdings. Some stores operate under other names, including Sam's Club; not all are called Wal-Mart. (A correction in this space on Saturday attributed the error incorrectly to the article also.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAILERS (85%); RETAIL SALES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (76%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); INFLATION (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); TOURISM (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Labor; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Wages and Salaries; Company and Organization Profiles; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (95%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%) Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: Tim Weiner

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (90%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



158 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1890 words

HEADLINE: Air Force Pursued Boeing Deal Despite Concerns of Rumsfeld 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
Even after Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld expressed concern late last month about improprieties in a proposed $20 billion contract with the Boeing Company, the Air Force's top acquisitions official, Marvin R. Sambur, distributed messages urging Pentagon officials to sign the deal "A.S.A.P.," according to internal Pentagon e-mail messages.
 Earlier in the year, Dr. Sambur also forwarded to top Boeing executives, including James Albaugh, president of a Boeing division, copies of internal Pentagon communications outlining the Defense Department's negotiating strategy for price, terms and conditions of the contract, the e-mail messages show. The messages were sent to Boeing in April and May, at a time when the company and the Pentagon had yet to reach an agreement. 
 The messages, which were provided by government officials and confirmed as authentic by Dr. Sambur in a phone interview on Friday, provide fresh evidence of how the Air Force and Boeing worked as partners to promote the controversial deal, and how some Air Force officials continued to press for the contracts even against opposition from government auditors, some lawmakers and some top Defense Department officials. 
 The critics have portrayed the deal as too costly, unnecessary and unseemly. But the e-mail messages indicate the eagerness of some Air Force officials to complete a deal that would allow them to obtain 100 767's from Boeing for use as refueling tankers as a first step toward rebuilding an aging tanker fleet. Both Boeing and the Air Force have given high priority to the project, with Boeing eager for new government aircraft orders to supplement dwindling commercial business, and the Air Force concerned about a tanker fleet that dates from the Vietnam War.
On Nov. 24, Boeing acknowledged "compelling evidence" of misconduct by Michael M. Sears, the chief financial officer, and Darleen A. Druyun, a vice president who joined the company last January after serving as the chief Air Force negotiator on the project. Both were fired after an internal inquiry found that Mr. Sears discussed a job for Ms. Druyun at Boeing at the same time that she was representing the Pentagon. They also tried to cover up their discussions, the company said.
The Air Force began an investigation this year into whether Ms. Druyun improperly disclosed information on a competing bid from Airbus for the tankers while she was working for the Pentagon.
The controversy led to the resignation on Monday of Philip M. Condit, Boeing's chief executive. 
On Nov. 25, the day after the two executives were fired, Mr. Rumsfeld said at a news conference that Boeing's decision to fire Mr. Sears and Ms. Druyun had persuaded him that it was important to look further into the accusations of improprieties "to see that things are done properly."
But despite Mr. Rumsfeld's action, Dr. Sambur sent internal e-mail messages on Nov. 25 and 26 to senior Pentagon and Air Force officials making clear that he favored the immediate signing of the contract despite the ethical and political concerns raised by the firings.
"We are ready to sign today," Dr. Sambur wrote in a message whose subject line included the words "HOT HOT!" Dr. Sambur added that "delaying until January will cause harm to the Air Force and Boeing."
The e-mail messages were addressed to a long list of senior officials, including Michael W. Wynne, the Pentagon's top acquisition official; Nancy L. Spruill, another top acquisition official; Gen. John Jumper, the Air Force chief of staff; and others involved in the debate about how the Pentagon should respond to Boeing's decision to dismiss the officials involved in the tanker deal.
The second e-mail message, on Nov. 26, called for signing the deal "A.S.A.P." but said that as a fallback the Pentagon should consider a delay only until Dec. 10 or 11, when Congress is scheduled to return from a recess.
Despite Dr. Sambur's efforts, Paul D. Wolfowitz, the deputy defense secretary, put the project on suspension late Monday pending a review by the Pentagon's inspector general.
Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican who has been the project's leading opponent, said in a phone interview on Friday: "This had already been revealed to be a corrupt if not terribly flawed process, and here they were trying to press ahead. Boeing is making an effort to clean up their act, but the Air Force and the Pentagon remain steadfast in their pursuit of a massive rip-off of taxpayer dollars."
The e-mail messages were read to a reporter on Friday by a government official. In a telephone interview, Dr. Sambur described them as "privileged inside-the-house e-mails" in which he simply stated his opinion. "Nobody's trying to circumvent anything," he said.
In the interview, Dr. Sambur also defended his decision in April and May to forward to Mr. Albaugh of Boeing internal correspondence sent to him about the tanker deal by James G. Roche, the secretary of the Air Force, and Mr. Wynne, the principal deputy under secretary of defense for acquisition, technology and logistics.
Among the messages was one in which Dr. Sambur urged Mr. Albaugh to treat the correspondence as sensitive. But Dr. Sambur said he had shared the information as part of a deliberate negotiating strategy. "The only way to show Boeing that we were serious was to show them that within this building, we were ready to pull the plug," he said.
As assistant secretary for acquisition, research and development, Dr. Sambur was Ms. Druyun's immediate supervisor at the Air Force until she retired last November before joining Boeing.
In September, Mr. McCain, who heads the Senate Commerce Committee, released documents based on more than 8,000 e-mail messages provided by Boeing. The messages offered a first glimpse of the high-level lobbying campaign that the company and the Air Force mounted to fend off critics and potential competitors in the project. On Friday, Senator McCain's office provided copies of additional e-mail messages from last spring, including those sent by Dr. Sambur to the Boeing executives.
In a letter to Mr. Wolfowitz on Tuesday, Senator McCain expressed concern that Dr. Sambur was preparing to sign the contract as early as Nov. 26. Aides to Senator McCain said on Friday that the senator had received information that was subsequently authenticated by Dr. Sambur.
An initial plan supported by both Boeing and the Air Force called for the government to lease all 100 planes from the company, a plan that both saw as advantageous for budgeting reasons but that the General Accounting Office and other critics said would add billions of dollars to the cost. Under a compromise authorized by Congress and signed into law by President Bush on Nov. 24, the Air Force is to lease 20 of the planes and buy up to 80 more, but critics including Senator McCain still say a better, cheaper option would be to rebuild existing tanker aircraft.
Mr. Wolfowitz has asked the Pentagon auditors to determine whether the apparent improprieties provide any reason that the $20 billion contract should not go forward. But at Boeing, a senior executive said this week that he feared that the deal would now almost certainly be scuttled or opened to renegotiation. Boeing officials said this week that they were still committed to the tanker deal. 
The story of the tanker deal -- months of aggressive lobbying by Boeing and the Air Force overrode opposition and won approval from the Pentagon and Congress -- has cast new light on a revolving-door world where the lines between government and contractors appear to have been blurred.
And some of the newly released documents provided by Senator McCain's office on Friday raised new questions about whether the Air Force overreached in providing assistance to Boeing.
"Please treat this as sensitive," Dr. Sambur said in an April 24 e-mail message to Mr. Albaugh in which he had forwarded internal correspondence sent to him about the tanker deal by Mr. Wynne. In that message, Mr. Wynne laid out what he portrayed as "our current strategy" to win "a simple price reduction" from Boeing.
The role played by Ms. Druyun has been the main focus of investigators looking into accusations of impropriety in the deal. But in Boeing's campaign to win support for the deal, which it saw as vital to its future, the company also appears to have enlisted other former Pentagon and Congressional officials, including some who had high-level contacts within the Bush administration and on Capitol Hill.
Among those who promoted the tanker deal were Richard N. Perle, a top Pentagon adviser who is a member of the Defense Policy Board. Mr. Perle also runs an investment firm in which Boeing invested $20 million last year, and he co-wrote an op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal in August arguing in favor of a deal in which the Air Force would have leased all 100 tanker aircraft from Boeing.
In the article, Mr. Perle and Thomas Donnelly, who both serve on the board of the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research and advocacy group, wrote that a "special government green-eyeshade mentality" was holding up a deal crucial to the Air Force.
A Boeing spokesman, Douglas Kennett, confirmed on Friday that Mr. Perle had been among journalists and policy advocates who were briefed by Boeing executives about the tanker deal as part of the company's effort to promote the contract. Mr. Kennett said that Mr. Perle and Mr. Donnelly had later shared a draft of theirop-ed article with Boeing officials and asked them to double-check its facts.
Still, Mr. Kennett said of the op-ed article: "We didn't write it. We didn't place it. It was their words, not ours." 
Boeing's investment in Mr. Perle's company, Trireme, one of the largest early stakes in the new company, was first reported by The Financial Times. Mr. Perle, whose office said he was out of the country on Friday, has denied any connection between Boeing's investment and his article.
Boeing's executives, board members and registered lobbyists include both Republicans and Democrats with close ties to the Pentagon, the White House and Congress. Its Washington office is headed by Rudy DeLeon, a former deputy secretary of defense in the Clinton administration who stayed on at the Pentagon in the early months of the Bush administration. Other senior executives include two retired senior Air Force generals, Timothy P. Malishenko and George K. Muellner, who both served as deputy assistant secretaries of the Air Force with responsibilities for contracts and acquisitions.
Boeing is a $50 billion company that has been expanding into the military business to offset declines in commercial aviation. By next year, military contracts are expected to provide more than half the company's business. But critics of the company have denounced what they have called an overly close relationship between Boeing and the Air Force during the negotiating of the aerial tanker deal.
"Boeing from the get-go was wired into all divisions of government on this project," said Keith Ashdown, vice president for policy at Taxpayers for Common Sense, one of several advocacy groups that was critical of the tanker project. "They had people who know the Air Force really well on their payroll, they had ties directly to senior leadership in the White House, and ties to the leadership in the House."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In an undated photo, Marvin R. Sambur, left, and Darleen A. Druyun attend the opening of an Air Force center, along with Gen. Lester Lyles and William Maikisch, of the space and missile command. (Photo by U.S. Air Force)(pg. C2) Chart: "Heavy Hitter"Boeing, which is among the top recipients of contracts from the U.S. government, also spends millions on lobbying and campaign contributions. GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS RECEIVED, 2002 FISCAL YEAR Lockheed Martin: $22.9 billionBoeing: 19.6Northrop Grumman: 10.2Raytheon: 7.5General Dynamics: 7.3 LOBBYING EXPENDITURES BY TOP CONTRACTORS IN 2002 Northrop Grumman: $6.6 millionBoeing: 3.8Lockheed Martin: 3.2General Dynamics: 2.6Raytheon: 1.6 CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS BY TOP CONTRACTORS, 2001-2 Lockheed Martin: $2.5 millionNorthrop Grumman: 1.9Boeing: 1.7General Dynamics: 1.5Raytheon: 1.2 (Sources by Center for Responsive Politics, Political Money Line, Government Executive Magazine; Project on Government Oversight)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FORCES (92%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); LOBBYING (90%); AIRLINES (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EVIDENCE (89%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ETHICS (78%); MISCONDUCT (75%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%) Airlines and Airplanes; Air Forces; Ethics; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Finances; Airlines and Airplanes; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: BOEING CO (95%); AIRBUS SAS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (94%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%) BOEING CO (BA) ; Defense Department; Boeing Co

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (95%); BAB (BRU) (95%); BA (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (95%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%) SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; 

PERSON: Douglas Jehl; Marvin R Sambur; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; James Albaugh

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



159 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Slide After Job Report Falls Short of Expectations

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday after a government report showed that the economy added fewer jobs last month than was forecast, tempering some of the optimism that had lifted benchmark indexes to 18-month highs this week. 
 "You've got to have a good labor market to draw people into the stores and spend again," said Bernie Myszkowski, who oversees $2.5 billion for ABN Amro Asset Management in Chicago. "If the employment numbers don't get stronger, it could be a reason for taking money off the table." 
 Shares of Intel, which have doubled this year, declined after the company's estimate of fourth-quarter revenue lagged some analysts' and investors' expectations. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 8.22 points, or 0.8 percent, to close at 1,061.50; computer-related shares accounted for more than a third of the decline. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 68.14 points, or 0.7 percent, to 9,862.68, its first decline in three days. The Nasdaq composite index slid 30.98 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,937.82. 
The decline wiped out the Nasdaq's gain for the week. The index lost 1.1 percent this week and has dropped three of the last four weeks. The Dow climbed 0.8 percent this week and the S.&P. 500 added 0.3 percent. 
Five stocks declined for every four that advanced on the New York Stock Exchange, the broadest sell-off since Nov. 20. 
The economy added 57,000 jobs in November, a Labor Department report showed, the fourth consecutive month of job creation. Economists had predicted, on average, an increase of 150,000, according to a Bloomberg News survey. 
Still, investors who were confident that the economy was increasing at a fast enough pace to raise corporate profits next year pushed the major benchmarks to new 18-month highs during the week. On Thursday, the Dow reached its highest since May 2002. On Monday, the S.&P. 500 hit its record, and the Nasdaq was at its highest in 22 months. 
"The payroll number was below expectations, but it's still the fourth consecutive month of job growth," said Brian Slater, who helps manage $500 million at Condor Capital Management in Martinsville, N.J. "The trend is that companies are hiring new workers." 
Intel, the maker of semiconductors, lost $1.44, to $32.10, and contributed the most to the decline in the S.&P. 500 and Dow average. The 4.3 percentdrop was the biggest since March 31. Sales this quarter will increase to $8.5 billion to $8.7 billion, up from Intel's earlier estimate of $8.1 billion to $8.7 billion. Some investors speculated that Intel would raise it further. 
Revenue from chips for mobile phones is lagging, Andy D. Bryant, the chief financial officer, said in a conference call late Thursday. Intel may not be able to wrest such chip sales from the market leader Texas Instruments, some investors said, even as Motorola and Flextronics International, two handset makers, report surging demand. 
Texas Instruments, whose semiconductors were used in more than half the mobile phones sold last year, dropped 78 cents, to $28.36. Advanced Micro Devices, the maker of computer microprocessors, shed 59 cents, to $16.07.
Prices of Treasury securities rose sharply as the economy added fewer jobs than forecast in November, raising speculation that the Federal Reserve may wait until after June to increase interest rates. 
The 10-year Treasury note gained 12/32, to a price of 100 4/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dropped to 4.23 percent from 4.37 percent on Thursday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 1 14/32, to 104 19/32. The bond's yield dropped to 5.07 percent from 5.16 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Government Bonds; Finances; United States Economy; Labor; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (84%); FORTIS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT UK LTD (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Nasdaq Stock Market

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



160 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Too Few Hires, Still 

 BODY:
America's gross domestic product grew at a China-like 8.2 percent rate in the third quarter. The productivity growth and manufacturing activity numbers released this week were the best in two decades. Corporate profits are at record highs, consumer confidence is rising, and interest rates remain low. All of which makes November's anemic jobs report, released yesterday, so disappointing. It was, to be fair, the fourth-consecutive month of added jobs, and the unemployment rate dropped to 5.9 percent. Still, the 57,000 jobs created in the month were far below expectations, and fell short of the 200,000-plus needed per month, on average, to reduce the unemployment rate substantially. 
 The "glass half-empty" report added fuel to the ongoing debate among analysts. The bulls think that it is only a matter of time before strong job growth kicks in, while pessimistic observers argue that structural changes -- things like technology-driven productivity gains and the outsourcing of labor -- foreclose any major improvement. 
 In our view, it is too early to write off this economy's ability to produce millions of new jobs during a sustained expansion. There is always some time lag between robust economic activity and robust hiring, and there are signs that hiring will start picking up. Companies typically meet the initial surge in demand without adding new employees until they are convinced that good times are here to stay or they deplete their stocks of inventory. 
That is certainly the Bush administration's perspective. Speaking at a Home Depot in Maryland, President Bush was quick to hail the drop in the unemployment rate as a sign that the economy is improving. 
The administration would naturally like to claim credit for the recovery. But it must also accept responsibility for the bad news. World markets are in fact giving Washington economic policy makers a vote of no confidence. That is the only way to interpret the dollar's recent baffling, and sharp, decline. 
America's economic performance would ordinarily translate into an appreciation of its currency, but the dollar has been trading at all-time lows against the euro. That is partly because foreign investors are alarmed by the lack of credible economic stewardship, as evidenced by our reckless federal deficit and opportunistic protectionism. 
Our debt-ridden society has long lived beyond its means, and gotten away with it, because foreigners are eager to stash their money here. America currently needs roughly $50 billion a month in capital inflows to make ends meet. This situation cannot be sustained forever, and a lack of confidence in Washington's economic policy making could hasten the day of reckoning. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); EURO (72%); PROTECTIONISM (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); NATIONAL DEBT (60%) Labor; Editorials; Unemployment; United States Economy

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



161 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: A REGION INFLAMED: THE TROUBLESHOOTER; 
BAKER IS NAMED TO RESTRUCTURE IRAQ'S HUGE DEBT

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
President Bush turned Friday for assistance on Iraq to the man who helped him win the contested election in 2000, naming former Secretary of State James A. Baker III as his personal envoy to restructure more than $100 billion in Iraq's foreign debt.
 The appointment of Mr. Baker, a longtime Bush family confidant and troubleshooter, was, in effect, a public admission by the White House that the occupation and reconstruction of Iraq is a more urgent problem than officials acknowledge. Over Mr. Baker's decades of friendship with the Bush family, both father and son have turned to him when things have gone wrong, and Mr. Baker has for the most part delivered. 
 "Secretary Baker will report directly to me and will lead an effort to work with the world's governments at the highest levels with international organizations and with the Iraqis in seeking the restructuring and reduction of Iraq's official debt," Mr. Bush said in a statement.
But administration officials said that the portfolio of Mr. Baker, 73, would be much broader than seeking an international agreement to restructure the debt, and that he would serve as an unofficial ambassador to explain the administration's plans for Iraq to skeptical nations in Europe and the Middle East. Officials noted that Mr. Baker, who was a very powerful White House chief of staff and treasury secretary in the Reagan administration, and an equally powerful secretary of state for the first President Bush during the 1991 Persian Gulf War, was not a man accustomed to remaining in the background. 
Some administration officials said the president had persuaded the man who directed the legal strategy that led to the Supreme Court ruling in Mr. Bush's favor in the 2000 Florida election recount to take on Iraq. Mr. Baker was said to have accepted the job only after being convinced that he would have direct access to Mr. Bush as his envoy, just as he had with Mr. Bush's father. The White House said the appointment had been made at the request of the Iraqi Governing Council.
Although Mr. Bush has never been as close to Mr. Baker as he was the first President Bush -- and was said to distrust him after his father's losing 1992 campaign, which Mr. Baker ran -- any such feelings have long been set aside in the pursuit of results, in this case the solvency of Iraq.
"James Baker's vast economic, political and diplomatic experience as a former secretary of state and secretary of the treasury will help forge an international consensus for an equitable and effective resolution of this issue," Mr. Bush said in his statement.
An associate of Mr. Baker said he was on a long-planned hunting trip in Texas and could not be reached for comment. 
Mr. Baker's appointment raises questions about the role of the Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, who has been leading the administration's efforts on Iraqi debt. At the same time, the appointment gives Mr. Baker diplomatic responsibility and visibility that would ordinarily be accorded to Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. Administration officials said Mr. Baker would regularly travel to foreign capitals to meet with heads of state about American plans for Iraq.
At the State Department, Mr. Baker's appointment, with its emphasis on debt, was cast as more of a supplanting of the Treasury Department's role. "If this was going to take away from anyone's role, it would be John Snow's," said a State Department official who asked not to be identified because of the sensitivities of the large personalities involved.
"The job that Baker's doing is not a job that Powell would be doing," the official said. "To do the job the way it needs to be done, you need a special envoy. It requires the investment of time and energy that a secretary of state doesn't have."
The official added that Mr. Powell had been involved in the decision to appoint Mr. Baker.
Treasury officials said Friday that Iraq's debt was somewhere between $100 billion and $120 billion. Of that, some $40 billion is owed to the United States, France, Germany, Japan, Russia and other nations that belong to the Paris Club, a group of industrialized nations that conducts debt negotiations. About $80 billion is owed to Arab nations and others outside the Paris Club. 
The debt does not include as much as $100 billion more demanded in war reparations from countries like Kuwait and individuals who claim damages from Iraq. 
The Paris Club has begun discussing Iraq's debt, but a French official said this week that the talks were only in the earliest phases, and that they had not reached a substantive level. The World Bank has proposed forgiving two-thirds of Iraq's debt, but it is unclear what the White House, or Mr. Baker, thinks of the idea.
Associates of Mr. Baker, who is known in Washington as a smooth operator who knows how to work the media to his advantage, said he would time with foreign leaders explaining the administration's plans for transferring sovereignty to the Iraqis by June 30.
Arab diplomats say they are particularly irritated with the Bush administration for what they describe as keeping them in the dark about the process of moving Iraq toward self government. They say no one is informing them about the plans of L. Paul Bremer III, the top American civilian administrator in Baghdad.
Mr. Baker will be aided in his endeavors by his longtime associate, Margaret D. Tutwiler, the former ambassador to Morocco who is awaiting Senate confirmation as the under secretary of state for public diplomacy. Ms. Tutwiler's job description is to improve the image of the United States overseas, particularly in Arab countries. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); DESERT STORM (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (72%); TERRORISM (59%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); SUPREME COURTS (50%) Credit; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Appointments and Executive Changes

ORGANIZATION: Treasury Department

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush; James A III Baker; John W (Sec) Snow; Colin L (Sec) Powell

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (58%) Iraq; Europe; Middle East; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



162 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: An Ally of Sharon Foresees a Palestinian State 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
Israel's deputy prime minister predicted in remarks published Friday that Israelis and Palestinians would not reach a peace agreement, but that Israel would have to cede some territory and permit the creation of a Palestinian state.
 The comments, by Ehud Olmert, a leader of the dominant Likud Party, suggest that a view is gaining acceptance on Israel's political right that it must concede its dream of a "Greater Israel" incorporating all of the territory of the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
 If matters continue as they are in those territories, Mr. Olmert warned, "It will lead to the loss of Israel as a Jewish state." 
Mr. Olmert said Israeli Jews risked becoming a minority controlling an Arab majority. "I shudder to think that liberal Jewish organizations that shouldered the burden of the struggle against apartheid in South Africa will lead the struggle against us," Mr. Olmert said, in an interview with Israel's largest daily newspaper, Yediot Ahronot.
The shifting demographic balance, long a concern of Israel's left, has become a preoccupation of the right as the two populations approach parity and as the Likud, with a strong plurality in Parliament, seeks to function as a governing party.
Mr. Olmert echoed increasing fears among Israelis that Palestinians will stop calling for a two-state solution to the conflict between the two peoples and start demanding a single state, with a Palestinian majority. Some diplomats here argue that the presence of more than 200,000 Israeli settlers in the West Bank and Gaza has already made a two-state solution unworkable.
Mr. Olmert is an ally of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, the Likud leader. Mr. Sharon has hinted at plans for territorial compromise or unilateral Israeli withdrawal. His political opponents dismiss his remarks as political posturing, but his advisers say he is trying to build support on the right for action.
Dennis Ross, the director of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy and a former negotiator in the Clinton administration, said: "I think we're now seeing the beginnings of a fundamental transformation in the Likud. You now have leading members of the Likud recognizing the demographic reality."
While not specifying boundaries, Mr. Olmert suggested that he envisioned conceding outlying neighborhoods of Jerusalem, as well as territory in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. He said he was seeking an Israel that would be 80 percent Jewish and 20 percent Arab -- roughly the proportion within Israel today.
About 5.2 million Jews and 1.3 million Arabs are Israeli citizens, while 3.5 million more Arabs live in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
The Palestinian leadership and the Bush administration oppose unilateral moves, saying borders should be negotiated.
Mr. Olmert acknowledged that he was breaking ranks with friends in the Likud, and his interview was sharply criticized by other politicians in the party. Gilad Erdan, a Likud legislator, said, "It is inconceivable that I should wake up one day and find myself in a party that supports a Palestinian state, and now unilateral separation."
Mr. Erdan told Israel Radio that Israel could manage the demographic challenge. If there is peace and economic improvement, he said, the Palestinians "will not continue to make babies at the same rate and quantity they do today."
If terrorism continues, he said, their conditions will remain poor, and they will choose to emigrate. Further, he said, if Palestinians remain and violence continues, "there is no reason to give civilian rights equal to those of Jewish citizens."
Referring to the peace initiative known as the road map, Mr. Olmert said that even if Israel faced no pressure from Washington, it would have to make territorial concessions. 
"Let's say the president tells us: 'I release you from all commitment to the road map -- do as you please,' piles on aggressive rhetoric against Arafat and crowns it all with generous foreign aid to Israel," he said. "How will that help us deal with the expected majority of Palestinians between the Jordan and the sea?" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (88%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); LIBERALISM (71%) Palestinians

ORGANIZATION: Yediot Ahronot (Israeli Newspaper)

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (90%) James Bennet; Ehud Olmert

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%) Israel; Israel

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



163 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Try to Regain Ground on Moral Issues 

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS and DIANE CARDWELL; Rachel L. Swarns reported from Des Moines for this article; Diane Cardwell reported from New Hampshire.

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
When Representative Richard A. Gephardt accused President Bush this week of condoning a culture of corporate greed, he cast his criticism in distinctly moral tones. "We've lost ethics," he told voters at a pizzeria in Independence, Iowa. "We've lost a sense of right and wrong."
 One day later, Gen. Wesley K. Clark told Democrats at a crowded synagogue in Florida that he would never allow Republicans to claim a monopoly on faith. 
 And all week long in New Hampshire, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut cast an array of policy proposals, like expanded access to health insurance and child care, as proof of his dedication to family values. "It's a basic commitment," he said, "a moral commitment that we should make to all of our families." 
While much of the presidential campaign so far has focused on the economy or the war in Iraq, a different refrain is being heard from many quarters as Democratic candidates seek to distinguish themselves by discussing values and also try to reclaim ground increasingly dominated by the Republican Party over the last decade. 
In the 1980's, Protestant voters supported Democrats and Republicans in roughly equal proportions, according to surveys of voters in general elections and a recently released study of religious voters. But that pattern shifted sharply in the 1990's as white evangelical Christians and increasing numbers of white Roman Catholics shifted their political allegiances to Republicans.
The Democratic presidential candidates who are talking about values are looking to broaden their appeal to the swath of churchgoing voters who may be up for grabs in the Midwestern and Southern primaries. The Democrats are also looking toward the general election, when their nominee will face President Bush, a born-again Christian who promised to bring honor and integrity back to the White House. Mr. Bush made concerted efforts in 2000 to appeal to evangelical Christians and devout Catholics, and such appeals are a central part of White House strategy for 2004. Some Democratic candidates hope to reach these same voters primarily with policies on trade and the economy, arguing that religious and values-laden language is not what wins supporters. 
"Your values are shown in the way you act and the policies you're in favor of," said Jay Carson, a spokesman for Howard Dean, the former Vermont governor. "He doesn't feel it's appropriate to wear his religion on his sleeve."
But other Democrats -- echoing strategists for President Bill Clinton in his 1996 re-election campaign -- say the party cannot cede to Republicans a political language that highlights the intersection of values and public policy.
"We went for years in the Democratic Party without recognizing God, and we pay a price for that," said Al From, chairman of the Democratic Leadership Council, a centrist Democratic group.
Highlighting the urgency of the issue for Democrats, a random survey of 1,997 registered voters released this fall by the Pew Research Center found that 63 percent of voters who attended religious services more than once a week said they planned to vote for Mr. Bush next year. That compared with 37 percent who said they preferred a Democratic candidate. The margin is narrower among the larger group of voters who attend church once a week, with 56 percent planning to vote for Mr. Bush and 44 percent planning to vote for a Democrat.
For months now, several of the nine Democratic contenders for the presidency have been wrestling with how to capture a significant sliver of that vote without alienating secular party loyalists.
For Mr. Lieberman, an observant Jew who has always made faith and values a central part of his platform, this is familiar territory. This week, he highlighted an array of proposals including paid medical leave for family emergencies and a requirement that the government create standards for food sold in schools as an "agenda for valuing families."
"It angers me that Republicans seem to suggest they have a monopoly on values in public life," Mr. Lieberman said in an interview. "They don't. We don't either, but we think about values, we care about values including faith-based values."
But some of the other candidates are treading onto new ground.
Mr. Gephardt has been most closely associated with economic issues like trade. But on the campaign trail, he has mentioned passages from the New Testament and has referred to the disgraced executives at Enron as "evildoers." He regularly denounces the Bush administration's trade policies as "immoral."
Another candidate, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, a Methodist who attended weekly prayer meetings in the Senate but rarely attends church during the campaign, tells voters repeatedly that "George Bush's values are not America's values," and asks how a president with values could allow millions of children to go without health insurance. 
General Clark, a Catholic who attends Baptist or Presbyterian services with his wife when he is home in Arkansas, reminds Democrats that they also belong to a party of faith, insisting that "the Republican Party is not going to take our faith away from us." He told of his conversion to Catholicism in a recent interview with the religious Web site Beliefnet.
Most of the Democrats typically shy from overt references to the Bible, God or prayer -- unless they are visiting churches -- in favor of emphasizing values and the importance of family. They delicately pepper their speeches with such wording. (Mr. Gephardt, for instance, rarely fails to mention that he has been married for 37 years.)
Republican strategists scoff at such efforts, saying Democrats will never make inroads among religious voters if they support abortion and oppose organized school prayer.
"They may be taking a first step in talking in a different way," said Jim Dyke, a spokesman for the Republican National Committee. "But until they can come around to adopt the policies that fit mainstream America, their rhetoric will only go so far." 
Even candidates who advocate the approach are uncertain as to whether the efforts will translate into significant numbers of votes. 
But some Democrats argue that even tentative steps in this direction might make a difference in a tight election.
"The question is whether the gap can be narrowed so that it is no longer an overwhelming advantage for Republicans," said William A. Galston, director of the Institute for Philosophy and Public Policy at the University of Maryland, who served as deputy assistant for domestic policy in the Clinton administration.
Seeking re-election in 1996, Mr. Clinton campaigned on his own family values agenda, pressing for school uniforms, youth curfews and better children's television, issues that resonated with suburban swing voters and women.
But then came the scandal over Mr. Clinton's affair with a White House intern, which Democrats say undercut their efforts and caused them to pay a price with older voters in particular. Mr. Bush in 2000 often seemed to run as much against Mr. Clinton as he did against Al Gore.
The decision to claim a kind of moral discourse is not simply a matter of political calculus. It is also an intensely personal choice for a diverse group of candidates.
Mr. Lieberman, who keeps the Sabbath and follows his religious traditions closely, clearly feels the most affinity for public discussions of his faith. But even Mr. Lieberman treads a fine line. He is more likely to speak about values than his faith except when he is campaigning in a church or addressing Jewish groups.
Mr. Edwards also avoids discussing his own religion while campaigning and shies from categorizing policies as moral or immoral. 
"I think he thinks that would be presumptuous," said Jennifer Palmieri, Mr. Edwards's campaign spokesman.
Mr. Gephardt, a Baptist who once considered becoming a minister, always mentions his college scholarships from the Baptist church and promises, if elected president, to help all Americans achieve their "God-given potential." Once he even discussed Jesus' commitment to the poor as a model for politicians. ("He was a Democrat, I think," Mr. Gephardt told voters in Marshalltown.) 
But he acknowledges that some of his advisers were skittish when he decided to find subtle ways to reflect his religious values in his campaign. 
"There was some reticence about it," Mr. Gephardt said. "You know, the old feeling that politics shouldn't intersect with religion or religious views and that they should be always separated."
"But I think we've made a mistake by not putting our values out front," he said. "You know, Democrats are program providers. We've got a program for everything, but we never talk about what motivates us. I think people are longing for political figures and parties who are willing to speak about values. That's what I'm trying to do."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gen. Wesley K. Clark, who greeted supporters this week in Portland, Me., has said he will not let Republicans claim a monopoly on faith. (Photo by Associated Press); Representative Richard A. Gephardt, left, visited the Rev. Joseph Jordan's Corinthian Baptist Church last month in Hamtramck, Mich. (Photo by Getty Images) Chart: "Religious Voters"Frequent worshipers are more likely to vote for President Bush in the upcoming election, according to a poll conducted by the Pew Research Center this fall. The trend is similar to voting patterns in the 2000 election. Frequency of religious service attendence: More than once a weekVoters in 2000Bush: 64%Gore: 36Whom voters plan to select in 2004Bush: 63%Democrat: 37 Frequency of religious service attendence: Once a weekVoters in 2000Bush: 59Gore: 41Whom voters plan to select in 2004Bush: 56Democrat: 44 Frequency of religious service attendence: One to two times a monthVoters in 2000Bush: 47Gore: 53Whom voters plan to select in 2004Bush: 52Democrat: 48 Frequency of religious service attendence: One to two times a yearVoters in 2000Bush: 44Gore: 56Whom voters plan to select in 2004Bush: 46Democrat: 54 Frequency of religious service attendence: Seldom/neverVoters in 2000Bush: 34Gore: 66Whom voters plan to select in 2004Bush: 38Democrat: 62 Note: Data for 2000 comes from polls of voters at the polling place conducted by Voter News Service. Data for the 2004 election comes from a poll of 1,997 registered voters in September and October by the Pew Center. The margin of error varies by category, and ranges from 4.5 to 6.5 percentage points. Figures include only those who expressed a preference between the Democratic and Republican candidates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); RELIGION (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); ETHICS (90%); FAMILY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); IRAQ WAR (68%) Presidential Election of 2004; Ethics; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Primaries

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (73%) Rachel L Swarns; Diane Cardwell

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (78%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (59%) IOWA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MAINE, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%) Midwestern States (US); Southern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



164 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: EMPLOYERS BALK AT NEW HIRINGS, DESPITE GROW TH 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The nation's employers displayed an unexpected reluctance in November to hire more workers, despite the improving economy and rising demand for what they sell. 
 The work force grew by only 57,000 jobs last month, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported yesterday -- only a third of what most forecasters had projected. The jobs report pushed down stock prices and interest rates. But for many economists, there was clear evidence, too, that the recovery has staying power: the unemployment rate dipped to 5.9 percent from 6 percent in October, and November was the fourth straight month of rising employment. 
 "Not every single indicator is going to look like a boom," said Richard Berner, chief domestic economist for Morgan Stanley. "Now we are getting down to a strong, but less spectacular, recovery." 
 The Bush administration greeted the jobs data cautiously. Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao noted that "many other economic indicators point toward continued job growth well into the new year." President Bush, in a speech in Baltimore, said the economy "is getting stronger."
 "The productivity is high; investment is strong; the home industry is vibrant," he added.
 The Democratic presidential candidates, meanwhile, were scornful. The weak jobs growth "is another link in the chain of President Bush's broken promises," said Howard Dean, the former Vermont governor. Senator John Edwards of North Carolina declared that "the jobs market has gone from bad to mediocre." 
 November was the second anniversary of the recovery from the 2001 recession, and for most of the period, jobs disappeared at an alarming rate -- nearly 1.1 million in all through last July. In the turnaround since then, employers have added back 328,000 jobs, mostly in lower-wage sectors. Higher-wage manufacturing jobs have continued to disappear, although at a slower rate than in the spring and summer. 
"One can conclude that the jobless recovery is safely behind us," said Jared Bernstein, a senior labor economist at the Economic Policy Institute in Washington, "but the number and quality of the jobs we are creating are still insufficient to sustain a truly robust recovery."
The latest employment data, with its evidence of wariness among employers about economic growth, took pressure off the Federal Reserve to begin a move toward higher interest rates, several economists said. The Fed's policy makers are now expected to leave rates unchanged when they meet Tuesday, and well into the coming election year, as well. 
Reflecting this view, interest rates plunged in the bond market yesterday, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury bond falling to 4.23 percent from 4.37 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average also fell, dropping 68.14 points, to 9,862.68.
Several weeks of bullish economic reports raised expectations that hiring, at long last, would break out of the doldrums. Corporate profits rose in the third quarter. Construction spending is up. So are car sales and other spending. Over all, the government's estimate of growth in the third quarter was revised up by a full percentage point last week, to 8.2 percent at an annual rate.
But chief executives have held back on hiring, concerned that the third-quarter surge would turn out to be an anomaly, overly dependent on the mortgage refinancings and tax-cut stimulus that are beginning to lose their impact. Forecasters surveyed by Blue Chip Economic Indicators agree with the executives: their consensus estimate of economic growth in the fourth quarter is 3.6 percent at an annual rate. 
"There is no question that company managers are trying to squeeze every ounce they can from their existing employees before they give in to hiring," said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at Global Insight.
Hints of that squeezing were sprinkled through the bureau's employment report. Hours worked, including overtime, were up. Rather than hire, employers brought in more temporary workers, whose numbers grew in November by 20,800, after an average monthly gain of 15,000 from July through October. 
The long-term unemployed -- those seeking jobs for six months or more -- grew to 23.7 percent of all the unemployed, the highest level since July 1983, when the jobless rate was a much more drastic 9.4 percent.
"Our general feeling has always been that employment gains are a late event in a recovery," said Alexander M. Cutler, chairman of the Eaton Corporation, a multinational manufacturer. Although orders are picking up, he said, "we are not adding people yet."
Through numerous cost-cutting tactics, companies have managed to maintain and even increase their output of goods and services while holding back on hiring. A result has been a sharp rise in the productivity growth rate, which measures an average worker's hourly output of goods and services. As long as the demand for this output rises no faster than productivity, companies can get by without adding workers. 
"Part of the reluctance to hire relates to the good gains in productivity," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist of Banc America Capital Management, "and part of it to the reticence on the part of business, until they are truly convinced that the upturn in their sales and profits will be sustainable."
Reflecting this reticence, job growth since August has fluctuated. Employers added 35,000 jobs that month, 99,000 in September and 137,000 in October. The Bureau of Labor Statistics revised September and October counts, reducing the total for the two months by 15,000 jobs. 
Manufacturing employment, which has fallen steadily through the 2001 recession and subsequent recovery, shrank again in November, by 17,000 jobs. But the pace of factory job losses has slowed to an average of 17,000 since September, down from an average of 53,000 jobs a month for the year ended in August.
Job growth in November was mainly in construction and in the service sector, among restaurants and hotels, health care and local government, despite budget pressures. The Economic Policy Institute, calculating gains and losses over the two-year recovery, found that in the industries where employment has grown, wages averaged $14.65 an hour, while sectors losing jobs -- particularly manufacturing -- paid, on average, $16.92 an hour. 
Over all, the average hourly wages of production employees, representing more than 85 million of the nation's 132.2 million workers, are up only 2 cents since September, to $15.46, below the rate of inflation.
The gradual decline in the unemployment rate, from a high of 6.4 percent in June, puzzled economists. Many argue that job growth, as measured by the bureau's "payroll" survey of 300,000 establishments, must exceed 200,000 a month to make a dent in the unemployment rate. Part of the explanation lies in the decline in the so-called labor force participation rate, the percentage of the population either working or seeking a job but unemployed.
As an economy improves, people typically grow more optimistic about finding a job and re-entering the labor force, swelling the ranks of the unemployed. But that has not happened in this recovery. The labor force participation rate, in fact, has been stuck at 66.3 percent since July. Three years ago, just before the recession started, it was 67 percent.
The other factor is the method used to determine the unemployment rate. While the bureau considers the job count in the payroll survey more accurate than the job count in its monthly survey of 55,000 households, it uses the household survey to determine the unemployment rate. That survey shows a sharper increase in employment than the payroll survey -- including a spectacular increase of 589,000 jobs in November -- helping to explain why the rate is falling, and convincing some economists that the household survey is a better job measure.
The bureau disagrees. "When we make adjustments in the two surveys to make them comparable, job growth is roughly the same," said Thomas J. Nardone, chief of the bureau's division of labor statistics.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Below Expectations"The economy added jobs last month, but the pace was slower than expected. Graph tracks the monthly change in nonfarm payrolls, seasonally adjusted since 2002. (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. A1) Chart: "The Labor Picture in November"UNEMPLOYMENT Graph tracks the civilian unemployment rate since Dec. 2002. Civilian unemployment: 5.9 percent BY DEMOGRAPHICWhiteOct.: 5.1%Nov.: 5.2%BlackOct.: 11.5Nov.: 10.2Hispanic*Oct.: 7.2Nov.: 7.4Men 20 and overOct.: 5.6Nov.: 5.7Women 20 and overOct.: 5.2Nov.: 5.1Teenagers (16-19)Oct.: 17.1Nov.: 15.5 OUT OF WORK (millions)TotalOct.: 8.8Nov.: 8.7Lost jobOct.: 4.9Nov.: 4.7Left jobOct.: 0.8Nov.: 0.9Returning to labor marketOct.: 2.5Nov.: 2.4New to labor marketOct.: 0.7Nov.: 0.6 EMPLOYMENTGraph tracks the amount of people employed since Dec. 2002. Household survey: 138.6 millionNonfarm payroll survey: 130.2 million BY TYPE OF WORK (millions)NonfarmOct.: 130.1Nov.: 130.2GoodsOct.: 22.0Nov.: 22.0ServicesOct.: 108.1Nov.: 108.2Agriculture+Oct.: 2.5Nov.: 2.4 SHARE OF POPULATIONWork forceOct.: 62.2%Nov.: 62.4%Labor force (workers and unemployed)Oct.: 66.1Nov.: 66.3 All figures are seasonally adjusted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Revised because of change in classifications. (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C5) Graph: "Factory Orders"Manufacturers' total new orders, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Oct.: +2.2%Sept.: +1.4Aug.: -0.3 Graph tracks the amount of manufacturers' total new orders, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted since May 2002. (Source by Commerce Department)(pg. C5) Graph: "Consumer Borrowing"Net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding; in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted. Annual Rates of ChangeOct.: + 0.6%Sept.: +10.4Aug.: + 6.0 Graph tracks the net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding; in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted since May 2002. (Source by Federal Reserve Board)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); BOND MARKETS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%) Labor; Unemployment; Election Issues; United States Economy; Labor

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) Bureau of Labor Statistics

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); ELAINE CHAO (77%); JARED BERNSTEIN (58%); JOHN EDWARDS (51%) Louis Uchitelle; Elaine L (Sec) Chao; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



165 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: BASKETBALL; 
Trail Blazers Trying to Fix a Troubled Family

BYLINE:  By LIZ ROBBINS

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Dec. 5 

 BODY:
By noon, when most of his players had left the practice gym for places he cannot control, Portland Trail Blazers Coach Maurice Cheeks was asked to reflect on the reputation of his troubled team.
 "It's not a pretty image," he said, shaking his head and sighing. "I'm not especially proud of the names I hear of a team that I'm the head coach of. All I can do is rehabilitate this team and try to make them people that people want to come see and want to be around." 
 Cringing about a team often labeled the Jail Blazers, Cheeks talks to his players like a parent in the hope that they will remember the advice before they get themselves into a regrettable situation. 
He is part of a franchise-wide effort that seems to be moving forward and back. Paul Allen, the team's owner, and Steve Patterson, the Blazers' newly hired president, have put in place a code of conduct for their players and a 25-point pledge to the fans that hold players and executives accountable for their actions. 
But as the Blazers made steps to clean up their image, they faced a new mess. Zach Randolph was the go-to man of the marketing department; a 22-year-old baby-faced forward, he was having an All-Star-caliber season. Early Tuesday morning, he was pulled over and arrested on a charge of driving under the influence of intoxicants after a police officer said he smelled a "strong odor of burning marijuana" coming from his Cadillac. Until the police finish evaluating Randolph's urinalysis, he will continue to play. 
It was the fourth marijuana-related arrest in 13 months for Trail Blazers players. As Cheeks heard the news Tuesday morning while watching television, he said his reaction was simple: "Not again."
One day later, General Manager John Nash completed a deal that had been in the works for three weeks, shipping Bonzi Wells to Memphis for Wesley Person, a soft-spoken 32-year-old shooting specialist. When Person checked into the game against the Knicks in the first quarter Friday night, the fans cheered mightily for more than a minute.
The Blazers fined Wells $10,000 last month for making an obscene gesture to fans, and suspended him for two games for cursing at Cheeks on the sideline. Cheeks had stripped Wells of the captaincy he had given him this season to make him more responsible after three years of insubordinate incidents.
The Blazers were sending a message and it seemed to be received by Damon Stoudamire, who was arrested in November 2002 and again in July for possession of marijuana.
"The message that was sent was, No. 1, we understand that nobody is untouchable around here, and No. 2, they're not playing about the things they want to do around here," Stoudamire said.
As the Trail Blazers have reduced payroll from $105 million to $82 million to a projected $53 million next season, they are weighing character, as well as talent and financial responsibility, when they make personnel decisions.
"What we've told the fans of Portland, right now, 11 of our 13 players have contracts of two years or less," Nash said. "The face of this team is going to be changed, and our players are auditioning either to stay here or auditioning for their next employer.
"It's highly unlikely we will recommit to players who demonstrate behavior inappropriate to the team on and offthe court."
Inappropriate behavior has been a hallmark of the team. Rasheed Wallace and Stoudamire were cited for marijuana possession in November 2002. So was Qyntel Woods in March. Wallace was fined and suspended by the N.B.A. for threatening a referee in a parking lot last year and for throwing a towel in a teammate's face. Ruben Patterson, a registered sex offender, was benched for skipping a practice on Thanksgiving. Randolph was arrested for under-age drinking in May 2002. 
Jerome Kersey, the former Blazer, was hired four months ago as the director of player programs to help counsel players and to work on eliminating such problems. He was disheartened because, one week before the latest Blazer arrest, he had spoken to Randolph about his image. 
"In certain terms, it was very upsetting because he was one of the people our marketing department put in the forefront," Kersey said. "I felt bad for him, and you wonder, 'Why?' He's an emerging star and then with the troubles we've had, we've been looked at closer these days. There is no answer."
Steve Patterson said that the team's season-ticket base was down "a couple thousand," reflecting the struggling economy but also the community's dissatisfaction with the team's behavior.
"Our situation with Zach was embarrassing for the franchise, and Zach acknowledged that," Patterson said, referring to Randolph's public apology for the arrest. Cheeks helped the team's image during the playoffs last spring when he stepped in to sing the national anthem with Natalie Gilbert, 13, who forgot the words. But he cannot put words in his players' mouths. 
"You got to try to help the players as much as you can," Cheeks said. "Sometimes it's just I think guys get screwed up that they're thinking all they got to do is come in and play basketball. We just have to become better citizens."
To do so, the Blazers introduced a code of conduct for their players in addition to the standard one attached to the N.B.A. contract.
"I skimmed over the code of conduct when we got it, but all I told myself was that I'm going to do what I need to do," Stoudamire said. "I can only tell you a couple of the rules, but I know in those guidelines, if you just do what you're supposed to do, you won't get in trouble."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Coach Maurice Cheeks, left, has stressed responsibility to his Trail Blazers. That effort was hurt when Zach Randolph, shown against the Knicks last night, was arrested for driving under the influence. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (92%); CANNABIS (86%); ARRESTS (86%); SPORTS FANS (78%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%) Basketball; Coaches and Managers

ORGANIZATION: PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS (94%) Portland Trail Blazers

PERSON: PAUL ALLEN (73%) Liz Robbins; Paul Allen; Maurice Cheeks

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (94%) OREGON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



166 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: There They Go Again 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Watching presidential politics lately, I've been thinking back to when I was 13 years old and had my heart broken for the first time.
 It was 1972, and I was antiwar and infatuated with Senator George McGovern. But as I handed out McGovern leaflets in Yamhill County, Ore., I was greeted as if I were the Antichrist. Soon afterward, Mr. McGovern was defeated in a landslide. 
 As Howard Dean will probably be, if the Democrats nominate him.
It is, of course, the Democrats' privilege to stand on principle, embrace the man they admire most and leap off a cliff together. Political parties have a hoary tradition of committing principled suicide, as the G.O.P. did with Barry Goldwater in 1964 and, most masochistically, the Democrats did three times with William Jennings Bryan from 1896 to 1908.
Yet my guess is that the Democratic faithful are being not so much high-minded as muddle-headed. Many Democrats so despise President Bush that they don't appreciate what a strong candidate he will be in November, and they don't grasp how poorly Mr. Dean is likely to fare in battleground states.
Mr. Bush beat Mr. Dean, 52 percent to 41 percent, in a recent Pew poll. Meanwhile, the economy appears to be strengthening in time for the election. Of the51 economic forecasters surveyed by Blue Chip Economic Indicators, all but one expect the economy to grow more rapidly in 2004 than it has in the last 33 months.
Against the Bush juggernaut, Mr. Dean faces three disadvantages.
First, geography. The only Democrats who have won the popular presidential vote since John Kennedy took office (when the Southern boom started) have all been Southerners: Lyndon Johnson, Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton and Al Gore. Swing states are mostly in the South and Midwest, so the key for both parties is to find a candidate who can seduce "Reagan Democrats," like Ohio steelworkers and Tennessee tobacco farmers. Not another Michael Dukakis.
Second, style. Angry bluster rouses the party faithful, but it frightens centrists. The last two presidents who were fervently hated, Richard Nixon and Mr. Clinton, both won two terms; today's liberal disgust could do the same for Mr. Bush by leading to a nominee like Mr. Dean, who warms the hearts of the party's core but leaves others cold. Furious liberals already bear some responsibility for the situation because enough of them voted for Ralph Nader in 2000 to sink Al Gore. 
Moreover, Mr. Dean is smart, but he knows it. America's heartland oozes suspicion of Eastern elitists, and Mr. Dean's cockiness would exacerbate that suspicion. President Clinton oozed charm and was fluent in Southern ("even a blind hog can find an acorn," he'd say scornfully), while Mr. Dean needs a Berlitz course in self-deprecating folksiness.
Mr. Dean's recent remarks about Southern men and Confederate flags showed both his awareness of this problem and his ineptitude in addressing it. He also described the episode as a "huge contretemps," and I seriously doubt that anybody who publicly uses the word "contretemps" can ever be elected president.
You get the feeling that if Mr. Dean and Mr. Bush were stuck together in a small Missouri town, Mr. Dean would lecture farmers about Thomas Paine's writings, while Mr. Bush would have the cafe crowd in stitches by doing impersonations of Mr. Dean.
The third problem is biography. Mr. Dean may be the one Democrat who is even more blue-blooded than Mr. Bush and who has an even lamer excuse for dodging Vietnam. Mr. Dean grew up on Park Avenue in an old aristocratic family, and after getting his medical deferment from the draft, he moved to Aspen to ski. Unlike other politicians, Mr. Dean doesn't even pretend to be particularly religious, and that's a major political weakness in the battleground states.
Don't get me wrong. I agree with Mr. Dean on many issues, and I admire his willingness to oppose our Iraq invasion from the beginning. But shiny-eyed teenagers who distribute leaflets for him in places like Yamhill County are going to get very cold stares -- and end up heartbroken.
If the Democrats are serious about governing, they should remember the words of one of their nominees, Adlai Stevenson. After one of his typically brilliant campaign speeches, someone shouted out to Stevenson from the crowd that he had the votes of all thinking Americans.
Stevenson shouted back, saying that wasn't enough: "I need a majority!" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); TOBACCO FARMING (64%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); RALPH NADER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); AL GORE (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) Nicholas D Kristof; Howard (Dr) Dean; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003 



167 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 18099 words

HEADLINE: NOTABLE BOOKS 

 BODY:
This list has been selected from books reviewed since the Holiday Books issue of December 2002. It is meant to suggest some of the high points in this year's fiction and poetry, nonfiction, children's books, mysteries and science fiction. The books are arranged alphabetically under genre headings.The complete reviews of these books may be found at nytimes.com/books.

FICTION & POETRY
 ABANDON: A Romance. By Pico Iyer. (Knopf, $24.) A graceful novel whose hero, an English graduate student of Sufi mystical poetry who hopes to uncover that within himself which passeth show, heads first for California and later for Iran, where he and the woman he is traveling with improve their understanding of mystical poetry and of themselves. 
 ALL OVER CREATION. By Ruth Ozeki. (Viking, $24.95.) A sophisticated novel in which dread and hope coexist and the end of nature is envisioned through the impact of genetically modified crops on a potato-growing family and the representatives of pro- and antimodification factions who descend on their Idaho potato farm.
AMERICAN WOMAN. By Susan Choi. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) A fictional account of the intersection of the radical activist Wendy Yoshimura with the fugitive Patty Hearst, who appeared to have adopted the values and perspectives of the revolutionaries who kidnapped her in 1974. The revolutionary life, it turns out, is mainly squalor and dulled anxiety; time outwears everything, and rapidly too.
AND NOW YOU CAN GO. By Vendela Vida. (Knopf, $19.95.) A swift, spare first novel of self-discovery whose heroine is the victim of a terrifying crime (but no grave physical damage). She returns to everyday life through a number of low-pressure encounters whose significance is rendered without being raised to the false cosmic.
ANJA THE LIAR. By Thomas Moran. (Riverhead, $25.95.) Moran explores the moral climate of the post-World War II era through characters (Anja, a girl from Krakow who was once a Nazi informer; a German engineer; a murderous woman who ran a Chetnik unit) who, like their nations, have had experiences so extreme there is no prescription for recovery.
ANY HUMAN HEART. By William Boyd. (Knopf, $24.95.) A novel whose hero, a minor British writer and art dealer (and secret agent), becomes a sort of stoic Everyman for the 20th century, meeting almost everyone (Ian Fleming, Picasso, Hemingway, the Duke of Windsor, Virginia Woolf) and traveling to almost everywhere; he has many successes in life, each one closely attended by yet another fall.
BANGKOK 8. By John Burdett. (Knopf, $24.) A talky, entertaining novel set in Thailand about two decades after the Vietnam War, full of cops, crooks and prostitutes; its narrator, a Bangkok police detective and son of a respectable prostitute, solves a locked-door murder not through deduction but by meditation and a sensitivity to reincarnation.
BAY OF SOULS. By Robert Stone. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) A highly concentrated (for this author), wholly unnerving novel whose hero, an unhappy professor of English specializing in literary "vitalism," becomes desperately involved with an exotically attractive woman who thinks she has lost her soul and hopes to retrieve it in a voodoo rite.
BEST FRIENDS. By Thomas Berger. (Simon & Schuster, $24.) Contemporary life takes another hit in this, the 22nd novel by the author of "Little Big Man"; its chief characters, in a variation of the eternal triangle, are two well-offmen (one much weller than the other) and one wife, who appears for a long time to be losing a game she is winning.
BLISS. By Ronit Matalon. (Metropolitan/Holt, $23.) A tense, often stormy novel involving two women in Israel; one, a fury on fire over Israel's treatment of the Palestinians and its own Arab citizens, destroys her family by her near-to-madness conduct; the other, who must go to France to join relatives in mourning, aimlessly waits out her grief.
THE BOOK AGAINST GOD. By James Wood. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) Wood, a distinguished British critic interested in the expansive 19th-century novel about big things like literature and faith, has bitten the bullet and written a big-thing novel, his first, which has to do with literature and faith but is also, thank goodness, laden with wit, forceful images and English eccentrics.
THE BOOK OF SALT. By Monique Truong. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) A lush, fascinating, expansive first novel about exile, concerning a gay Vietnamese cook who works for Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas in Paris; he Frenchifies their apple pie while observing with an aching heart how much better adapted to expatriation they are than he is.
A BOX OF MATCHES. By Nicholson Baker. (Random House, $19.95.) Baker employs his specialty as a novelist, the exhibition of life where no life seems to be, to explore the consciousness of a man who rises early, lights a fire and sits around in a mindful state every morning till his matches are all spent.
THE BUG. By Ellen Ullman. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $23.95.) A thrilling, intellectually fearless first novel that reinvents the story of Frankenstein's monster as an allegory of the birth of the computer among engineers in Silicon Valley; a Yale Ph.D., hired to test computer codes for bugs, falls in love with the "artificial reality" inside the machine.
CHARLIE JOHNSON IN THE FLAMES. By Michael Ignatieff. (Grove, $22.) The costs of bearing witness are explored in this dark, provocative novel when an American television newsman sees a young woman set ablaze by a Serbian officer, who mechanically describes her as "collateral damage."
CLARA. By Janice Galloway. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) The virtuoso pianist Clara Schumann (wife of the composer Robert, mother of eight) left 47 volumes of diaries. Undaunted, Galloway imagines a way into Clara's life in this novel whose up-to-date concerns don't obstruct its heroine's passionate voice.
THE COFFEE TRADER. By David Liss. (Random House, $24.95.) A historical novel and an economically detailed romance of capitalism, in which a young Jew in 17th-century Amsterdam seeks to evade censure from the Jewish authorities and to build a personal fortune by exploiting the rising popularity of coffee, which he intends to buy cheap and sell dear.
THE COMMISSARIAT OF ENLIGHTENMENT. By Ken Kalfus. (Ecco/ HarperCollins, $24.95.) Nobody listens to anyone else or looks anyone in the eye in this novel by an author interested in the force of ideas and the power of images over life; the first half of the book is full of people whose concern is taking some personal advantage from the impending death of Tolstoy.
THE COMPANY YOU KEEP. By Neil Gordon. (Viking, $25.95.) A rousing, cerebral thriller in which Woodstock Nation meets Islamic fundamentalism; the action, most of it set in 1996, concerns a left-wing lawyer from the 60's who kidnaps his daughter to avoid her mother's custody suit, then has to explain (in 2006) why he abandoned her a decade before.
COSMOPOLIS. By Don DeLillo. (Scribner, $25.) An all-day (and book-length) chauffeured trip across midtown Manhattan exposes DeLillo's cool, New Economy protagonist to an assortment of characters in this critique of hypercapitalism.
CRABWALK. By Gunter Grass. (Harcourt, $25.) Grass's lifelong analysis of Germany's past and present centers, in this new novel, on a refugee ship sunk by a Russian submarine with the loss of 9,000 lives; the story is told through three generations of a family, all marked, one way or another, by the ship's fate.
CRACKPOTS. By Sara Pritchard. (Mariner/Houghton Mifflin, paper, $12.) The crackpots in question belong to the Reese family of Ashport, Pa., who represent the 1950's but with additional pathology in a novel of 14 interlocking stories concerning Ruby Reese and the losses she bears over half a century.
CREATION. By Katherine Govier. (Overlook, $24.95.) A wily, intricate, speculative novel about John James Audubon, 48 years old with a wife and a girlfriend; he lives in fear that his eyesight will fail, or he will die before his work is done, or the birds will vanish. Govier depicts him as a man of multiple fidelities, not really able to resolve them all but trying his best to come clean.
THE CROSSLEY BABY. By Jacqueline Carey. (Ballantine, $23.95.) A foamy, delightful novel that concerns distinctly sober subjects, like fidelity, responsibility and greed, all evoked in strife between two sisters (one a collector of boyfriends, the other a hard-line businesswoman) for the orphaned baby of a third.
THE CURIOUS INCIDENT OF THE DOG IN THE NIGHT-TIME. By Mark Haddon. (Doubleday, $22.95.) Presented as a detective story, this funny, original first novel stars a sort of autistic savant, 15 years old, whose grasp of social clues is near zero (he cannot lie or understand a joke) but whose logical faculties are dominant except when overloaded.
THE CUTTING ROOM. By Louise Welsh. (Canongate, $24.) This accomplished first novel's hard-bitten hero is a Glasgow auction house employee who must assess the belongings of a newly dead man, a task that leads him into the city's darkest corners of commercial sex and criminal glamour.
THE DEEP: And Other Stories. By Mary Swan. (Random House, $23.95.) The first book by a promising Canadian writer who devises and explores different forms with interesting results; the 68-page story at the heart of this volume probes World War I by seeing what it does to a 26-year-old pair of twin sisters who have volunteered to work in France.
A DISTANT SHORE. By Caryl Phillips. (Knopf, $23.95.) In the sad and ugly modern Britain of this novel by a Caribbean writer who has specialized in the homelessness of the descendants of slaves, nothing redemptive happens in the friendship of Dorothy, an Englishwoman and retired schoolteacher, and Solomon, an illegal refugee from a war-blighted African nation; both are left to drift.
THE DOGS OF BABEL. By Carolyn Parkhurst. (Little, Brown, $21.95.) An inventive first novel whose hero and narrator, a linguist whose wife has died in a fall seen only by the family dog, resolves to find out what happened by teaching the dog to talk; ultimately he realizes that the explanation that can sustain him in his love and grief can come only from himself.
DOMINO. By Ross King. (Walker, $26.) This intricate novel is a meditation on appearance and reality in 18th-century Europe; everybody is dressed up as something else in a narrative that follows a murderer who wants to be a society portraitist and a Venetian castrato pursuing a singing career in England.
DREAM JUNGLE. By Jessica Hagedorn. (Viking, $23.95.) Hagedorn's intricate novel combines under high pressure the discovery of a Stone Age tribe in the Philippines and a movie in the making that recreates the Vietnam War; thematic characters include a Filipino playboy, his cook's 10-year-old daughter, an ancient child star and a Philippine-American journalist from a Rolling Stone-ish rock magazine.
DRINKING COFFEE ELSEWHERE. By ZZ Packer. (Riverhead, $24.95.) A first collection of short stories about characters who are apt to be struggling, under thick layers of stereotype, to make their presence felt in the world as black women, often engaged with that old-time religion and hemmed in by passivity learned in segregated daily life.
THE EARLY STORIES: 1953-1975. By John Updike. (Knopf, $35.) The 103 stories in this volume, some of them published when Updike was 21, are witnesses to a marvel of prodigious production (during the same years he produced seven novels and five books of poetry). Their themes tend to be eros and God (that is, women and death) but they happen in a generally propitious America, where life is rarely really unbearable.
THE EFFECT OF LIVING BACKWARDS. By Heidi Julavits. (Putnam, $23.95.) A savage, funny novel whose droll heroine can't quite take it seriously when her plane is hijacked; one culprit, a terrorist-anthropologist interested in "essential human morality," rigs perverse ethical situations for his hostages, forcing them to make decisions with one another's lives.
ELIZABETH COSTELLO. By J. M. Coetzee. (Viking, $21.95.) A haunting short novel whose author was awarded the Nobel Prize last month; its title character, an aging novelist who travels on the university lecture circuit (as Coetzee himself has done), gets into trouble by embracing unpopular positions on animal rights and the suppression of horrible facts. Compassionate in principle, chilly in practice, her character could support an allegorical proposition: people often fail to behave as they know they should.
ELROY NIGHTS. By Frederick Barthelme. (Counterpoint, $24.) The protagonist, an art professor at a small college, falls foul of a midlife crisis that spurs him to leave home, then fall in love with a woman who turns out to be the object of his best student's affections. A suicide follows, as do many events that indicate the wisdom of lowered expectations.
EVIDENCE OF THINGS UNSEEN. By Marianne Wiggins. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) This panoramic, epically ambitious and erotically original novel follows a heartland American couple from World War I to the atomic bomb project at Oak Ridge; Opal, the practical half, keeps the books and fixes the truck; Fos, the visionary, is attracted by light in all its forms.
THE FALL. By Simon Mawer. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) Mountaineering as a metaphor for life still clings to its perch in this fine novel that extends back through half a century and two families of climbers, souls ruled by passions for the mountains and for each other, producing a tangle of erotic connections and a great deal of physical precision in dangerous attitudes.
FEATHERSTONE. By Kirsty Gunn. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) Exploring the effects of rural flight on those left behind, Gunn creates a small town that is eerily alive and full of old-
fashioned people and old-fashioned epiphanies, though every small-town stereotype applies, including promiscuous barmaid and village idiot.
A FEW SHORT NOTES ON TROPICAL BUTTERFLIES: Stories. By John Murray. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) Stories by a doctor whose understated authorial presence and gift for description are strong enough to sustain an occasionally underconstructed narrative.
FOUR SPIRITS. By Sena Jeter Naslund. (Morrow, $26.95.) A historical novel that brings dignity and moral complexity to a panoramic view of Birmingham, its people and their daily struggles in 1963, when a church bombing killed four black girls; the author herself grew up in Birmingham during the civil rights era.
THE FOX'S WALK. By Annabel Davis-Goff. (Harcourt, $25.) Davis-Goff continues her exploration of Irish history in this novel, an unsentimental look at the world of the Anglo-Irish gentry, seen through the eyes of 8-year-old Alice, who is set adrift at her grandmother's Waterford estate during World War I.
THE FURIES. By Fernanda Eberstadt. (Knopf, $26.) A formulaic situation -- rich girl loves proletarian, promoter of capitalism falls for a balding, beardy guy in Novosibirsk -- is rescued by Eberstadt's prose, which is fresh and vividly descriptive, and by her observation platform, whence she disapproves from above the takeout-menu lifestyle of 90's Manhattan.
THE GANGSTER WE ARE ALL LOOKING FOR. By Le Thi Diem Thuy. (Knopf, $18.) The father of the anonymous narrator is the "gangster" of the title; he may have been a black-
market operator long ago before escaping to America with his daughter. The story itself is a tale of persecution, tragedy and gritty determination, told with a poetic sensibility and a sharp eye for the matter of everyday life.
GENESIS. By Jim Crace. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $23.) Mankind's baser instincts are on full display in the form of Crace's protagonist, Felix Dern, an impossibly fertile actor and singer in a metropolis that seems very familiar but different in unnerving ways.
GETTING MOTHER'S BODY. By Suzan-Lori Parks. (Random House, $23.95.) This first novel by a Pulitzer-winning African-American playwright takes a cheerful tack across deep Faulknerian waters, relating the fortunes of the survivors of a woman who was buried (as people think) in some very expensive jewelry.
GILGAMESH. By Joan London. (Grove, $23.) A first novel with epic affinities whose heroine, a dweller in the Australian outback, experiences something like conversion when she meets an Armenian lad whom she pursues, with their child, all the way to Yerevan -- a sort of descent into hell -- hoping for rediscovery and renewal.
GILLIGAN'S WAKE. By Tom Carson. (Picador, $25.) A loopy, exuberant novel-type prose event that sees 20th-century America through the lives of the castaways on "Gilligan's Island." The originals are augmented by culturally significant characters, from Amelia Earhart and Holden Caulfield to Richard Nixon and Maggie the Cat.
GOOD FAITH. By Jane Smiley. (Knopf, $26.) Joe Stratford, narrator and protagonist of this subtly polemical novel (it is against greed), rests reasonably content with his life as a real estate agent. It doesn't last; the prospect of big money opens before him, and a former I.R.S. agent, now some kind of wise guy, enmeshes him in unblessed doings.
THE GREAT FIRE. By Shirley Hazzard. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) In Hazzard's first novel in more than 20 years, set in the still smoldering aftermath of World War II, a British major of 32 falls in love with an impossibly precocious 17-year-old; the numerous vicissitudes that follow are supported by the weight and scope of the book's observation of a world and a time in chaos.
GREAT NECK. By Jay Cantor. (Knopf, $27.95.) Cantor's ambition in his immense (703 pages), teeming new novel is to capture the American scene of the late 1960's and bring it to life through six characters, all privileged Long Island teenagers, bound together by a Klan murder in Mississippi and by the antiwar movement.
THE GURU OF LOVE. By Samrat Upadhyay. (Houghton Mifflin, $23.) A terse, understated first novel, concerned with universal middle-class anxieties and set in Katmandu, Nepal, where its protagonist, Ramchandra, worries all the time about money and worries even more about his adulterous love affair, which his wife knows all about.
THE HAZARDS OF GOOD BREEDING. By Jessica Shattuck. (Norton, $23.95.) An astute first novel whose blue-blooded inhabitants have occupied the same house in Concord, Mass., for 254 years (with one temporary exception). The appearance of social stasis that comforts them proves, however, to be an illusion.
HEAVENLY DAYS. By James Wilcox. (Viking, $23.95.) A delicious novel whose valiant, stubbornly forgiving heroine gets everything wrong at first; her warm, sensitive husband is really a rigid, crew-cut, fetish-ridden compulsive who has moved out of the house without her even noticing it.
HEAVEN'S EDGE. By Romesh Gunesekera. (Grove, $24.) A fictional reworking of the myth of Eden, its dignity enlarged by its awareness that there is no recovery; it takes place in a nameless tropical landscape that much resembles the author's native country, Sri Lanka.
THE HILLS AT HOME. By Nancy Clark. (Pantheon, $25.) Clark's funny, intelligent first novel reveals a special and particular kind of life, that of an extended old New England family in their 200-year-old clapboard homestead, where they survive miracles of inconvenience, eat tuna wiggle or fish sticks and express invincible opinions about everything.
A HOLE IN THE HEART. By Christopher Marquis. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) The protagonist of Marquis's offbeat first novel is a 26-year-old teacher and perpetual wet blanket, always on the lookout for a fresh start and surrounded by enough sadness to propel her from San Francisco to Alaska and back.
HOW TO BREATHE UNDERWATER: Stories. By Julie Orringer. (Knopf, $21.) Parents seem well meaning but ineffectual in these stories; they do everything right, but it doesn't necessarily work. Children and adolescents operate in a secret world of their own, a kind of callous, Darwinian universe that admits reality as illness and loss, aggression and sexuality.
HUNGRY GHOST. By Keith Kachtick. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) In Kachtick's first novel, a Buddhist photographer, who has vowed chastity but wiggles out repeatedly, pursues a Roman Catholic woman who once vowed chastity, still means it and is living out the compassion the Buddhist talks about.
INDELIBLE ACTS: Stories. By A. L. Kennedy. (Knopf, $23.) Consolation is unavailable for most characters in these stories; they act out the same emotional errors that made the rest of us as disappointed as we are. Salvation sometimes comes within reach, but not exactly within grasp.
THE INQUISITORS' MANUAL. By Antonio Lobo Antunes. (Grove, $25.) Portugal's long fascist regime haunts this novel as it anatomizes a society permeated by meanness and arrogance; the fall of the regime happens over and over from the viewpoints of many characters, each of them complementing or contradicting the rest.
I SAILED WITH MAGELLAN. By Stuart Dybek. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) Grim urban struggle and nostalgic teenage guilty sex coincide in this story collection with a single narrator, Perry Katzek, in a Chicago long abandoned by James T. Farrell's Irish, now occupied by Poles, Mexicans and Italians. Perry, a Sensitive Kid, plays the clarinet, collects butterflies and gives a vivid sense of his neighbors' inner lives.
JAMESLAND. By Michelle Huneven. (Knopf, $24.) Alice Black, who cannot forget her descent from William James (people keep bringing him up), has trouble being pragmatic about the paranormal in the Los Angeles of this novel, where unlikely things (a deer in the house) seem to trump less exotic ones (like mental illness and fear of mental illness).
JENNIFER GOVERNMENT. By Max Barry. (Doubleday, $19.95.) In this clever satirical novel set in the near future, corporations are so mighty that people take their names from their employers. Jennifer Government is the agent assigned by a reduced institution to pursue a marketing ploy that kills people to sell shoes.
KILL TWO BIRDS AND GET STONED. By Kinky Friedman. (Morrow, $24.95.) The Kinkster is back -- in spirit if not in person -- in this multilayered novel about a self-involved writer in a crisis, trying to develop a new project while cavorting with crazy strangers.
THE KING IN THE TREE: Three Novellas. By Steven Millhauser. (Knopf, $23.) Stories whose characters are endangered by imagination as it fosters creative bitterness, illicit love, romantic triangles and jealousy in locations from a modern marriage to the legendary court of Cornwall, where Tristan and Ysolt destroy their lives and those of others.
THE KING IS DEAD. By Jim Lewis. (Knopf, $24.) Lewis's third novel, a tale of the South after World War II that revolves mainly around Memphis, bears the anti-Faulknerian moral that the past is indeed over, so out of reach that a chief character's parents seem unreal to him and so does their adherence to certain rules of the Old South code governing marital conduct.
L'AFFAIRE. By Diane Johnson. (Dutton, $24.95.) Johnson's third witty and graceful novel about Americans in France is a comedy of manners that concerns a self-made woman, a dot-com millionaire from Palo Alto who goes to France seeking a life-changing love affair. Most of it happens at a ski resort in the Alps, where cultural misunderstandings prevail by day, love affairs by night.
LAY BACK THE DARKNESS: Poems. By Edward Hirsch. (Knopf, $23.) Hirsch's sixth collection, which is much concerned with the work of a good citizen, bravely commences with the title "I Am Going to Start Living Like a Mystic," and continues with cameos of great moments in the classics and powerful stuff about Hades and the Holocaust.
LIARS AND SAINTS. By Maile Meloy. (Scribner, $24.) A spectacular first novel that pursues a family through the consequences of a secret. An unmarried teenager's baby is presented, even to much of the family, as the child of the teenager's mother; this calls for some fancy concealing and a kindhearted examination of faith and morals.
THE LIGHT OF DAY. By Graham Swift. (Knopf, $24.) Told in a police-blotter argot so spare it reads like a sort of gumshoe haiku, this moody novel about severed connections might well be summarized thus: Woman kills husband. / Private eye falls hard for her: / Two lives held in check.
LITTLE INFAMIES: Stories. By Panos Karnezis. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) Love, loss and skulduggery not long after World War II in a kind of Greek Brigadoon, an impoverished village, full of gothic and mythical elements, that is bound to vanish when consumerism and electronic media arrive.
THE LITTLE WOMEN. By Katharine Weber. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $23.) A lively, winsome riff on Louisa May Alcott's classic, in the form of an autobiographical novel by Joanna Green, the middle of three sisters dismayed by their mother's infidelity and disgusted by their father's apathy.
LIVES OF THE CIRCUS ANIMALS. By Christopher Bram. (Morrow, $24.95.) Bram's exceedingly clever novel, set in the world of the theater, is well paced and sexy (both gay and straight); a character much like Ian McKellen is particularly acute about narcissism, the great motor of the stage, which he sees escaping into more and more of everyday life.
LONG FOR THIS WORLD. By Michael Byers. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) The protagonist of Byers's first novel is a medical geneticist whose special anguish is his inability to help the victims of a rare genetic disease that kills them of old age by 19 at most; his love for a particular patient calls him to risk his career.
LOOT: And Other Stories. By Nadine Gordimer. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $23.) Death and the complicated burden of loss are the dominant themes of this structurally diverse collection, Gordimer's first since 1991, the year she won the Nobel Prize.
LOST IN A GOOD BOOK. By Jasper Fforde. (Viking, $24.95.) An effortlessly readable, shamelessly conceptual novel starring Fforde's literary detective Thursday Next, who employs a time-transcending thingummy to penetrate the text of Poe's "Raven" and do literary business of the utmost importance for the future of the world itself.
LOVE. By Toni Morrison. (Knopf, $23.95.) All kinds of crime, perversion and soul-wrecking hatred inhabit this short novel, in which the widow and granddaughter of a rich, charming and long-dead resort owner struggle over his legacy. The action, which has to do with a forgery scheme, throws up memories and revelations, each of which stirs up new questions about the situation and the morality, or lack thereof, of the novel's characters.
LOVE ME. By Garrison Keillor. (Viking, $24.95.) Fame, seduction and downfall are the major motifs of this novel whose Midwestern protagonist, fired by the success of his first novel, moves to New York, obtains an office at The New Yorker and mislays his skills somewhere. William Shawn, the magazine's famously retiring editor, is represented as a big-mouthed, gun-toting tough, and his venerable magazine undergoes a Mafia takeover.
LUCKY GIRLS: Stories. By Nell Freudenberger. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $22.95.) A well-poised but sharp-toothed first collection of stories about Americans abroad, mostly privileged young women; though they have, or used to have, parents and lovers, their primary loyalties are to their own memories.
MAKING THINGS BETTER. By Anita Brookner. (Random House, $23.95.) Brookner's protagonist, Julius Herz, has been left stranded by the deaths in his family; now he can think of nothing to do in his life or with it. He courts a woman he knows to be selfish and unable to love, and on Brookner's austere scale of passivity this may be counted as a kind of victory; but she is far too honest to say.
THE MARRIAGE OF THE SEA. By Jane Alison. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) An intricate, elegant novel that ponders the connections among love, illusion and fidelity in the permutations of eight central characters behaving in two romantic and romanticized cities, New Orleans and Venice.
THE MASTER BUTCHERS SINGING CLUB. By Louise Erdrich. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) Erdrich's latest novel revisits the fictional town of Argus, N.D., and the familiar themes of love, death and redemption, but shifts the focus from the town's Indians to its German, Polish and Scandinavian citizens.
A MEMORY OF WAR. By Frederick Busch. (Norton, $25.95.) Ambitious to deal with large themes and issues, Busch has written a novel whose characters are plagued by World War II's aftershocks 40 years later; the chief victim is a Manhattan psychologist whose new patient, a scholar specializing in Holocaust denial, claims to be his half brother.
MIDDLE EARTH. By Henri Cole. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $23.) Self-portrait poems in this collection survey the shape of a life from a great, forgiving distance; closer up, the poems reflect on their own voices and ambiguities of gender. At book's end, the Christian ideal of self-abnegation is fused with the inner-life urgencies of sexuality.
THE MINOTAUR TAKES A CIGARETTE BREAK. By Steven Sherrill. (Picador, paper, $14.) A tender first novel that spans two weeks in the life of the Minotaur, thousands of years after the Theseus caper, living in a North Carolina trailer park and cooking at a steakhouse, awkward with human society but no longer devouring virgins.
MR. TIMOTHY. By Louis Bayard. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) Tiny Tim, as we know, did not die; he grew up to walk without a crutch and to be the narrator of this novel; to escape, with Scrooge's help, from his low-class family; and to save a 10-year-old girl from some nasty men in an updated Dickensian catena of escapes and manifestations that gets resolved only on Christmas Day.
MONKEY HUNTING. By Cristina Garcia. (Knopf, $23.) A withdrawn, melancholy novel set in Havana's Barrio Chino and concerned with how the biggest Chinatown in Latin America came to be and then to pass away with Castro's restrictions on private property; by a Cuban-American writer who is a natural student of families scattered around the earth.
THE MONSTERS OF ST. HELENA. By Brooks Hansen. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) The island chosen for Napoleon's final exile lends its hermetic isolation to Hansen's novel, in which a defeated, domesticated Bonaparte plays with children and writes his memoirs while his presence intrudes on the local haunt, a Portuguese traitor stranded many years before.
MORTALS. By Norman Rush. (Knopf, $26.95.) A long comic novel (with long, nutty digressions) whose hero, a C.I.A. agent, Milton scholar and private-school teacher in Botswana, improbably masters his surroundings through violence in an insurrection while beavering away inside his head to wreck his marriage with paranoid quotations.
MY LIFE AS A FAKE. By Peter Carey. (Knopf, $24.) This brisk, prankish novel by the author of "True History of the Kelly Gang," constructed on classical Ripping Yarn lines, proposes a Frankensteinian monster in the form of an Australian poet, Bob McCorkle, who is the creation of another Australian poet, Christopher Chubb, invented in part to embarrass Chubb's editors. Whereupon a real-life person called Bob McCorkle appears ex nihilo and proves to be a better poet than his creator, whose daughter he appropriates.
THE NAMESAKE. By Jhumpa Lahiri. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) This first novel by Lahiri, the author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning "Interpreter of Maladies," is a mild, graceful study in dissonance: its Indian-American hero, Gogol Ganguli, is afflicted with a name that feels profoundly alien and seems committed to wafting haphazardly through life.
OFFICE OF INNOCENCE. By Thomas Keneally. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $25.) This fictional chronicle of the sentimental education of a priest mixes elements of melodrama, murder mystery and theological treatise, all of them swirling around an earnest young curate whose indiscretions bring scandal to the church and a killer to his confessional box.
OLD SCHOOL. By Tobias Wolff. (Knopf, $22.) Wolff's first novel, which greatly resembles his life as he has told it in two books of memoirs, concerns a prep school boy, his lower-middle, partly Jewish background disguised, who is obsessed with both writing and dissembling -- activities that have a great deal in common.
ONE LAST LOOK. By Susanna Moore. (Knopf, $23.) A fine historical and political novel, recorded by Lady Eleanor Oliphant, sister to the governor general of India in the 1830's; its grand set piece is a state visit to the Punjab to ally with a maharajah. Everything goes wrong in Afghanistan, though, and terrible things are seen by those with the courage to look.
ONE PILL MAKES YOU SMALLER. By Lisa Dierbeck. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) A sober first novel that overturns the traditional optimism of the coming-of-age story; things get worse and worse for Alice Duncan, a prematurely developed 11-year-old who is neglected, coerced and used as the fantasy object of some quite unpleasant adults.
OPEN SHUTTERS: Poems. By Mary Jo Salter. (Knopf, $23.) This installment in Salter's lifework is formal in manner, modern in matter (sonograms and satellite hookups appear). Many poems postdate 9/11; a generalized fear of terrorism darkens the background against which the inexplicable is "always cropping up."
ORACLE NIGHT. By Paul Auster. (Holt, $23.)+An up-to-date metasomething novel on a dizzy rotation between life and invention, situated in a writer's notebook; the writer, Sidney Orr, recently very ill, has lost his will to write until he buys an exotic notebook in Brooklyn. Immediately stories begin to proliferate, right from the bottom of the page upward, in a stew of creation and discovery, communication and concealment. 
ORYX AND CRAKE. By Margaret Atwood. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $26.) Atwood returns to a dystopian future in this bleak novel about a man who may be the last human remaining on postapocalyptic earth.
OUR LADY OF THE FOREST. By David Guterson. (Knopf, $25.95.) An eccentric, accomplished novel concerning a teenage runaway, Ann Holmes, who wanders into the Pacific Northwest rain forest in November and sees a vision of the Virgin Mary. Small, wet and weedy-looking, Ann has been a druggie, a hippie and a rape victim; nevertheless, some thousand followers come to watch her watching the Virgin in North Fork, Wash.
A PALESTINE AFFAIR. By Jonathan Wilson. (Pantheon, $23.) The prenatal injuries that would mark the birth and life of Israel are dramatized in this novel, set in 1920's Palestine, through three characters: a thoroughly British Jew who joins the police; a painter, also British and Jewish, who compromises his art; and the painter's wife, a non-Jewish American Zionist.
PATTERN RECOGNITION. By William Gibson. (Putnam, $25.95.) Gibson's elegant, entrancing seventh novel concerns a supersmart woman, a freelance marketing consultant who covers the globe looking for the next big salable fad, trying all along to solve the disappearance of her father, a retired C.I.A. man, in New York on Sept. 11, 2001.
PERSONALITY. By Andrew O'Hagan. (Harcourt, $25.) This meditative novel, the author's second, is the chronicle of a Scottish family of Italian descent whose past is rich with complex incident; now Maria, a wildly talented singer at 13, is threatened with reduction to a media personality, all her own characteristics eradicated and a TV image posted in their place.
THE PHOTOGRAPH. By Penelope Lively. (Viking, $24.95.) An engaging novel (the author's 13th) whose hero, a landscape historian, finds in a closet a snapshot that suggests adultery by his wife (now dead) and her brother-in-law; the more he investigates the dead woman, the more she seems insubstantial when alive, a fluffy creature, casting no shadow and scarcely attached to the ground.
THE PIECES FROM BERLIN. By Michael Pye. (Knopf, $24.) A tough, mature, difficult but brilliantly paced novel in which a woman in Nazi Berlin accepts Jews' valuable possessions to safeguard them, then appropriates them and slopes off to Switzerland. Nemesis arrives 60 years later when a woman spots and remembers a piece of family furniture.
THE POINT OF RETURN. By Siddhartha Deb. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A first novel whose hero, an Indian veterinarian and public servant, a true believer in progress and public works, finds himself repeatedly on the wrong side of history in the intolerant, irrational and corrupt nation of real life.
POSTCARDS FROM BERLIN. By Margaret Leroy. (Little, Brown, $22.95.) This unhappy-family novel starts with a middle-class idyll and it's downhill from there as an 8-year-old daughter falls ill and then iller; a mother's dark secret -- the girl was put in an orphanage for her own rotten mother's convenience -- seems to be generating her daughter's sickness.
PROPERTY. By Valerie Martin. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $23.95.) Set in and around antebellum New Orleans, this novel turns on sexual rivalries and power struggles involving a boorish planter; his enraged wife, who hates him; and an accomplished, beautiful slave woman who belongs to the wife but has also borne a child to the husband.
THE QUALITY OF LIFE REPORT. By Meghan Daum. (Viking, $24.95.) A fine comic first novel in which misguided fantasy betrays a young New York television journalist, first by sending her to the Midwest, where folks are simple and good, then by orders from New York to do a lifestyle series on the simple, good folk.
QUICKSILVER: Volume One of the Baroque Cycle. By Neal Stephenson. (Morrow, $27.95.) Nine hundred pages of dizzying complexity -- rich with bibliographies, time lines and mathematical diagrams -- that delve into the philosophy, economics and wars of the 17th and 18th centuries, and serve as a prequel to the cyberpunk world of Stephenson's earlier fiction.
REUNION. By Alan Lightman. (Pantheon, $22.) A small-college professor, attending his 30th college reunion, vividly and at length recalls his first passionate love affair (with a ballerina!), reconstructing the past in this spare, economical novel that probes life's most complex and enduring relationship: the one between who one is and who one used to be.
THE ROMANTIC. By Barbara Gowdy. (Metropolitan/Holt, $24.) Obsession knows no greater exponent than Louise, narrator and protagonist of this adroit novel that refuses to honor the claims of adulthood. Abandoned by her mother at 9, Louise soon falls madly in love with another family's mother, then with that mother's adopted son, and remains consciously faithful to her doomed love ever after.
RUMPOLE RESTS HIS CASE. By John Mortimer. (Viking, $24.95.) For a while it looked as though Horace Rumpole, Mortimer's curmudgeonly London barrister, might have breathed his last in this collection, in which he defends his usual assortment of eccentric clients.
SAMARITAN. By Richard Price. (Knopf, $25.) A sprawling cast of cinematic characters, often little people who command feeling for a moment, then vanish, surrounds the two chief characters of this urban North Jersey novel, in which the beating of a television writer is investigated by an old friend turned police detective.
SAN REMO DRIVE: A Novel From Memory. By Leslie Epstein. (Handsel/Other Press, $24.) A heartbreaking Hollywood novel whose catastrophe is the death of the narrator's father, a screenwriter, after a chat with HUAC. But its focus is the narrator's brother, who is not right in the head and requires constant monitoring.
SAUL AND PATSY. By Charles Baxter. (Pantheon, $24.) Circumstances, alternately aggravating and ameliorating, seem to be in control of a young married-with-baby couple's life in this quite irreverent novel, which shows throughout a healthy contempt for youth and its sometimes forthright admiration of self.
SECRET FATHER. By James Carroll. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) The cold war and a father-and-son dyad, recalling in 1990 the events of 1961 in Berlin, generate the elaborate plot of this political thriller in which a missing roll of film seems to portend a new world war.
THE SELECTED POEMS OF HOWARD NEMEROV. Edited by Daniel Anderson. (Swallow/Ohio University, cloth, $24.95; paper, $16.95.) Twelve years after Nemerov's death, the editor's selections trace his career from would-be modernist to godfather of the New Formalists and winner of just about every poetry prize.
SET THIS HOUSE IN ORDER: A Romance of Souls. By Matt Ruff. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) A heavily populated novel (its two principal characters, Andrew and Penny, suffer from multiple personality disorder). When Andrew's personalities begin to riot, he and they hit the dangerous road for his childhood home while Penny does her best to keep up.
THE SHADOW KING. By Jane Stevenson. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) The second novel in an intended historical trilogy; in this installment, Balthasar (son of a black father and cousin, by some fatal arrangement, of Charles II of England) and Aphra Behn, British proto-novelist and spy, encounter each other in a modern drama of displacement and self-invention set in the later 17th century.
SHE IS ME. By Cathleen Schine. (Little, Brown, $23.95.) A skillful domestic comedy (full of cancer victims and short tempers) whose title refers to the frightening probability of growing up to become our mothers. One major character is an expert on "Madame Bovary"; she is trying to develop a Bovary movie treatment, while nearly everyone has one or more symptoms of Flaubertian adultery.
A SHIP MADE OF PAPER. By Scott Spencer. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $24.95.) In the author's eighth novel he reprises the theme of consuming love, this time in the form of an affair between well-adjusted adults told from both perspectives, and asks whether that love isn't worth the suffering it causes to those around them.
SHIPWRECK. By Louis Begley. (Knopf, $23.) Not fame, not wealth, not even a French mistress can fend off the midlife writer's crisis that plagues Begley's latest protagonist, a celebrated author who evokes the familiar contradictions of Begley's lawyer character, Schmidt, but none of the sympathy.
SHROUD. By John Banville. (Knopf, $25.) The protagonist of "Shroud," based on Paul de Man, the posthumously disgraced star of deconstructive criticism, dreads his exposure in his own lifetime as the author of Nazi-era anti-Semitic journalism; the worst of it is that he didn't really write that stuff, though he is living under the name of the man who did.
THE SONGS OF THE KINGS. By 
Barry Unsworth. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $26.) A modern retelling of Euripides' "Iphigenia in Aulis," in which seers struggle to see which god is holding up the invasion of Troy while Odysseus, a scheming political animal, works to unite the Greek forces to preserve his chance of looting Troy and dying rich.
STAR OF THE SEA. By Joseph O'Connor. (Harcourt, $25.) A ripping yarn, by an Irish critic and playwright, that is also an agonizing inquiry into our vast tolerance for the suffering of others, in this instance the starving Irish of 1847, morally observed by an American journalist and the captain of a ship carrying emigres in steerage.
STILL HOLDING. By Bruce Wagner. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) Third of a series in what Wagner calls his "cellphone trilogy," this hip, angry, funny and humane novel set in Hollywood employs the clinical apparatus that dissects the lives of major stars on nobodies as well -- for example, a 25-year-old aspirant who looks like Drew Barrymore and whose major breakthrough is being cast as a cadaver.
STILLNESS: And Other Stories. By Courtney Angela Brkic. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $23.) A spare, poignant first story collection based on the author's experience on a forensic team investigating mass graves in Bosnia in 1996; she writes boldly from the viewpoints of her characters: men and women, soldiers of all religions, everyone touched by the Balkan tragedy.
STONE GARDEN. By Molly Moynahan. (Morrow, $23.95.) Moynahan's second novel is about grief, but no ordinary grief. Its narrator, Alice McGuire, can be exasperated by commonplace frustrations, but as events turn darker she recoils from conventional sentiment; when her boyfriend is killed in Mexico, she dismisses the irrevocable and takes up arguing about forgiveness and helping prisoners write poetry.
A SUNDAY AT THE POOL IN KIGALI. By Gil Courtemanche. (Knopf, $23.) A wonderfully rich portrait of fear and love set against the backdrop of Rwanda in the mid-1990's, where a burned-out correspondent finds it easier to drift along than risk becoming too involved in "the hopelessness of living."
SWEETWATER. By Roxana Robinson. (Random House, $24.95.) In Robinson's third novel, questions of personality and self-esteem in an undemonstrative woman arise for a widowed environmental specialist who maintains a probationary approach to her second marriage.
THAT OLD ACE IN THE HOLE. By Annie Proulx. (Scribner, $26.) Proulx's new novel follows the destiny of Bob Dollar, abandoned at 8 on a Denver doorstep, through the high plains of Texas and Oklahoma, where he seeks locations for hog factories until he encounters the real folks who live there and is caught up in their yarns and legends.
TIGER IN A TRANCE. By Max Ludington. (Doubleday, $21.95.) This entertaining first novel hits the road with Jason, Ludington's 18-year-old narrator, who joins a troupe of nomads following the Grateful Dead in the fall of 1985, relishing casual hygiene and bootleg tapes, and worshiping Jerry Garcia.
THE TIME OF OUR SINGING. By Richard Powers. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.) This dazzling, difficult novel, Powers's eighth, follows the lives of a talented mixed (he Jewish, she black) couple in America from about 1939 on; their sufferings are reflected in musical and scientific developments.
TRAIN. By Pete Dexter. (Doubleday, $24.95.) Set in 1950's Los Angeles, where real life was basically film noir, this novel of harsh, precise everyday violence by the author of the scary 1988 novel "Paris Trout" involves a cynical detective, a young woman who surely deserves better than what she gets and a black caddie, nearly 18, who is nice to animals and serves as the book's moral center.
THE UNPROFESSIONALS. By Julie Hecht. (Random House, $23.95.) The narrator of Julie Hecht's first novel, a photographer of some repute and the owner of a tone of voice that mocks her own narcissism, suffers a feeling of disensoulment, a consequence of her long attachment to a man much younger than herself who has committed suicide.
VERNON GOD LITTLE. By DBC Pierre. (Canongate, $23.) A first novel that is smart, ridiculous andfunny even though it is nourished chiefly by the Columbine High massacre of 1999; its 15-year-old protagonist, whose best friend has killed 16 classmates, is the focus of the town's lust for retribution.
THE VOICE AT 3:00 A.M.: Selected Late & New Poems. By Charles Simic. (Harcourt, $25.) Tidy, blunt verses whose moral vision is rooted in an appreciation of the absurd, a surrealism of a sort that is always in position to raise existential questions about daily life.
A WALKING GUIDE. By Alan S. Cowell. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) A tale of romance, adventure and the redemption of a war correspondent, Joe Shelby, a cynical hack determined to conquer England's highest peak, and in the process tame a worsening neurological disorder; by a veteran correspondent for The Times.
WAXWINGS. By Jonathan Raban. (Pantheon, $24.) Both a kind of historical novel and domestic drama, "Waxwings," set in Seattle in 1999, ostensibly concerns a writer accused of child abduction, but its most real presence is a Chinese contractor, an illegal immigrant who bosses a team of illegal Mexicans.
THE WAY TO PARADISE. By Mario Vargas Llosa. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) Through intricate, alternate narrative loops, Vargas Llosa re-imagines the last years of Paul Gauguin, spent in Tahiti and the Marquesas, and the emergence of his Franco-Peruvian grandmother, Flora Tristan, as a workers' rights activist.
WE PIERCE. By Andrew Huebner. (Simon & Schuster, $24.) Rooted in the author's family history, a novel of the 1991 Persian Gulf war follows a young Army sergeant as he gradually perfects the emotional hollowness that allows him to live with all that he has seen and done in Iraq, as well as with the exquisite awareness of his own expendability.
WHAT I LOVED. By Siri Hustvedt. (Holt, $25.) A generous, engaged philosophical novel, set in the New York art world with its vanities and corruptions, and developing such propositions as the impress of one personality on another, the instability of sexual identity, the passage of the world through people's thoughts and lives.
WHAT WAS SHE THINKING? Notes on a Scandal. By Zoe Heller. (Holt, $23.) A 42-year-old teacher has an affair with a 15-year-old boy in this darkly comic novel; a no-nonsense spinster colleague (and narrator) tries to account for this behavior in a book that focuses on the rift between perception and truth.
WHEN THE WOMEN COME OUT TO DANCE: Stories. By Elmore Leonard. (Morrow, $24.95.) All of Leonard's talents for hard-boiled fiction -- the sadism, the sex and especially the deadpan vernacular -- are on display in his second collection of short stories.
A WHISTLING WOMAN. By A. S. Byatt. (Knopf, $26.) The bookish Frederica Potter, protagonist of this fourth novel in a series that began 25 years ago, lives by interviewing many and various savants on television, allowing the entry of much arcane information into the novel and unleashing the author's satirical powers in every which direction.
THE WIFE. By Meg Wolitzer. (Scribner, $23.) A light-footed, streamlined novel that rushes in to shed new heat on old themes like gender, writing and identity; Joan Castleman gives up her writing career to service that of her husband, Joe, a jerk of many flavors, and Wolitzer deploys a calm, seamless humor over the agony.
THE WINTER QUEEN. By Boris Akunin. (Random House, $19.95.) Wildly popular in Russia, Akunin's detective novels, set in czarist times, offer entertainment to readers fatigued with official truths. This one concerns Fandorin, a young officer of good family who catches the case of another such who seems to have died playing what they call "American roulette" with a revolver.
YELLOW DOG. By Martin Amis. (Miramax, $24.95.) The awful people in Amis's current excursion include an actor and writer who sacrifices political correctness and becomes an antifeminist because of a brain injury; a vicious journalist who hates women and excuses rape, apparently because he is genitally underendowed; and a king of England, Henry IX, a good-natured fellow who suffers from his boring job and a shocking invasion of his daughter's privacy.

NONFICTION
ABSOLUTELY AMERICAN: Four Years at West Point. By David Lipsky. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) Lipsky, sent by Rolling Stone to write on West Point, followed it at length, finding young people at the academy about as hedonistic as others their age but also deeply committed to duty, honor, courage, discipline and, if necessary, dying for others.
ADAM'S NAVEL: A Natural and Cultural History of the Human Form. By Michael Sims. (Viking, $24.95.) An endlessly amusing essay, in the spirit if not the manner of Browne and Burton, on the visible human body and all the lore attached to it since the beginning; by a journalist who got the idea while immobilized by surgery.
AFTER: How America Confronted the September 12 Era. By Steven Brill. (Simon & Schuster, $29.95.) Brill sets out, John Hersey fashion, to comprehend America's reaction to the terror attack by visiting the viewpoints of those he interviews: officials, lawyers, politicians of course, but regular folk as well; he discerns a peculiar American tendency for special interests to work together in time of crisis.
ALBION: The Origins of the English Imagination. By Peter Ackroyd. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $40.) An ingenious essay in cultural anthropology that tries to define its subject through art and literature, without respect to the disciplines of history; for Ackroyd, "Beowulf" informs Milton, whether he read it or not, and the same English music is heard in Dowland and Britten, Constable and Blake.
ALL THE SHAH'S MEN: An American Coup and the Roots of Middle East Terror. By Stephen Kinzer. (Wiley, $24.95.) A lively popular history, by a Times correspondent, of the 1953 coup that swept aside Iran's nationalist prime minister, Mohammed Mossadegh, who emerges as the book's enigmatic hero.
ALL THE STOPS: The Glorious Pipe Organ and Its American Masters. By Craig R. Whitney. (PublicAffairs, $30.) In examining the lives of master organists and organ builders, the author, an assistant managing editor at The Times, reveals what it's like to command an instrument the size of a minor European principality, and investigates the effect over time on the human ego.
ALMOST THERE: The Onward Journey of a Dublin Woman. By Nuala O'Faolain. (Riverhead, $24.95.) Picking up where "Are You Somebody" left off, O'Faolain's second memoir finds her middle-aged and more settled but no less introspective as she bluntly examines her loveless childhood, a fragile new relationship with a divorced father and even the perils of memoirs.
AMERICAN MASSACRE: The Tragedy at Mountain Meadows, September 1857. By Sally Denton. (Knopf, $26.95.) A gripping account of the ambush in southern Utah that claimed the lives of some 140 members of a California-bound wagon train, and of the evidence pointing to its probable perpetrators. 
AMERICA'S WOMEN: Four Hundred Years of Dolls, Drudges, Helpmates and Heroines. By Gail Collins. (Morrow, $27.95.) From Eleanor Dare (Virginia's mother) to Betty Friedan, a celebration by the editorial page editor of The Times; it's not so much about how women have shaped America as vice versa, especially when national adversity offered them the chance to expand their ambits and horizons.
THE APPRENTICE: My Life in the Kitchen. By Jacques Pepin. (Houghton Mifflin, $26.) This memoir by a celebrated chef recounts a culinary coming-of-age, from the hunger pangs of wartime France to the job as personal cook to Charles de Gaulle to the passage to America that would give rise to the author's unabashed partiality for Oreos, Jell-O and iceberg lettuce -- though not, dare we hope, combined.
THE ART OF BURNING BRIDGES: A Life of John O'Hara. By Geoffrey Wolff. (Knopf, $30.) This biography by a fellow fiction writer who has himself endured rejections and editing goes far toward redeeming O'Hara from the the ranks of the impossible and placing him among the merely very difficult.
AUTO DA FAY. By Fay Weldon. (Grove, $25.) The author of a couple of dozen novels in breezy prose pauses to tell her own story, in which an intrepid, no-nonsense woman survives paternal abandonment, earthquake, World War II and a long heritage of dotty ancestors, many of whom were compulsive scribblers of novels, stories and movie scripts.
BALL OF FIRE: The Tumultuous Life and Comic Art of Lucille Ball. By Stefan Kanfer. (Knopf, $25.95.) A swift, judicious biography of the bold, beautiful clown who arrived in television land in 1951 with "I Love Lucy," which ran for six years and is running on cable to this day.
BEAUTY BEFORE COMFORT: A Memoir. By Allison Glock. (Knopf, $20.) A slim, winning family memoir that stars Glock's late grandmother, a beautiful, vivacious West Virginian who had Hollywood written all over her, but didn't leave home until near the end of her life.
BENJAMIN FRANKLIN: An American Life. By Walter Isaacson. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) A full-length portrait of the many-minded, long-lived writer, diplomat, scientist and much, much more; crisply written in the intervals of Isaacson's day jobs as managing editor at Time and head of CNN.
BEYOND BELIEF: The Secret Gospel of Thomas. By Elaine Pagels. (Random House, $24.95.) Pagels, whose "Gnostic Gospels" explored the discovery in 1945 of ancient Christian texts in Egypt, revisits the suppressed Gospels and their potential for shaping a different, more diverse Christianity.
THE BIG HOUSE: A Century in the Life of an American Summer Home. By George Howe Colt. (Scribner, $26.) For five generations of Brahmins, including the author, an eccentric summer home on Cape Cod remained a fixed point on the family compass; faced with the house's impending sale, Colt affectionately deconstructs the sacred place.
BLACK DAHLIA AVENGER: A Genius for Murder. By Steve Hodel. (Arcade, $27.95.) Hodel, a retired Los Angeles cop, coolly makes the case that his deceased father -- a doctor, a dabbler in art and a man of the world -- was also the Black Dahlia killer, who stalked 1940's Los Angeles.
BLOODY SUNDAYS: Inside the Dazzling, Rough-and-Tumble World of the N.F.L. By Mike Freeman. (Morrow, $24.95.) Freeman, a sports reporter for The Times, presents an assortment of profiles, off-the-field stories and eye-popping statistics -- all anchored by the author's passionate belief in the spirit and resilience of the game.
THE BOYS' CRUSADE: The American Infantry in Northwestern Europe, 1944-1945. By Paul Fussell. (Modern Library, $19.95.) Tapping published and unpublished memoirs as well as his own experience, Fussell, a veteran and an award-winning war historian, looks unflinchingly at the ill-fated G.I.'s thrust into conflict.
THE BURNING TIGRIS: The Armenian Genocide and America's Response. By Peter Balakian. (HarperCollins, $26.95.) A sweeping, unremitting description of the killing of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire; American public opinion was galvanized and aid sent, but state interests militated against intervention.
BUSH AT WAR. By Bob Woodward. (Simon & Schuster, $28.) A remarkable day-by-day account from inside the White House of the campaign to oust the Taliban from Afghanistan and the internal argument over a pre-emptive strike against Iraq; Woodward's extraordinary access reveals a patchwork of ideas held together by a supremely confident president.
BYRON: Life and Legend. By Fiona MacCarthy. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.) This zillionth life of Byron finds that in his heart he was gay. But even if not, the author's analysis of his romantic history and his suicidal financial conduct help explain why people in the 1800's regarded him with both awe and horror.
CAPTIVES. By Linda Colley. (Pantheon, $27.50.) A historian's intensive study of the "captivity narratives" that arose first from British exploration, then supremacy, in far distant lands; the captivity theme that dominated "Gulliver's Travels" arose again and again as British power spread itself thin and encountered occasional humiliation.
CASTLES OF STEEL: Britain, Germany, and the Winning of the Great War at Sea. By Robert K. Massie. (Random House, $35.) Continuing his own "Dreadnought" of 1991, this elegant writer pursues World War I at sea, most sharply focused on the Battle of Jutland in May 1916, the closest approach history would ever provide to the forthright slugging match the dreadnought fleets were invented for; it was indecisive.
CHARLIE WILSON'S WAR: The Extraordinary Story of the Largest Covert Operation in History. By George Crile. (Atlantic Monthly, $26.) A behind-the-scenes chronicle, by a veteran television producer, of a congressman's provision of vast financial support to the anti-Soviet side in 1980's Afghanistan.
CHOPIN'S FUNERAL. By Benita Eisler. (Knopf, $23.) Seeking to untangle the paradoxical relationship between the shy, fragile pianist and the passionate sexual outlaw and novelist George Sand, Eisler's book underscores Chopin's illness and Sand's nursing skills, and sees a mutual attraction arising from their voracious appetite for work.
CITY IN THE SKY: The Rise and Fall of the World Trade Center. By James Glanz and Eric Lipton. (Times Books/Holt, $26.) Glanz and Lipton, both Times reporters, tell a fascinating story from several sides, including the legal and political maneuvers that ushered in the World Trade Center and the engineering innovations that secured its completion.
CITY ROOM. By Arthur Gelb. (Marian Wood/Putnam, $29.95.) A memoir of life at The New York Times by one who spent nearly 50 years there, rising from copy boy to managing editor; he has the power to evoke whole generations of change in the news business, reaching back to the glorious postwar years of manual typewriters, chain smokers and all-nighters.
COAL: A Human History. By Barbara Freese. (Perseus, $25.) An engrossing account of the comparatively cheap, usually dirty fuel that supported the Industrial Revolution, inspired the building of canals and railroads to move it and once made London and Pittsburgh famous for the quallity of their air.
THE COLOSSUS OF NEW YORK: A City in Thirteen Parts. By Colson Whitehead. (Doubleday, $19.95.) An engaging, ambitious author takes his shot at the cityness of New York in this short, dense tour de force of shifting voices and points of view in a town that changes faster than its inhabitants can follow.
COOKING FOR MR. LATTE: A Food Lover's Courtship, With Recipes. By Amanda Hesser. (Norton, $23.95.) A smart, charming look at a Manhattan romance through the lens of the author's chief preoccupation; Hesser's book, which originated as a column in The New York Times Magazine, addresses a provocative question: does eternal love require similar tastes?
DARK LOVER: The Life and Death of Rudolph Valentino. By Emily W. Leider. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.) An accomplished study of the movie star and his era, and of how he altered forever the electric charges of both men and women in 1921 with "The Sheik."
DARK STAR SAFARI: Overland From Cairo to Cape Town. By Paul Theroux. (Houghton Mifflin, $28.) The youngest curmudgeon grows older: Theroux turns 60 during this arduous trek and seems to resent it in a narrative suffused with ruin and oblivion; he remains a mighty myth deflator and a master at the humor of ill humor.
DOWN BY THE RIVER: Drugs, Money, Murder, and Family. By Charles Bowden. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) A grim exploration, seven years in the making, of crime on both sides of the Rio Grande at El Paso, organized around the murder of a man who may have been killed only because his brother was an officer of the Drug Enforcement Agency.
THE DUST OF EMPIRE: The Race for Mastery in the Asian Heartland. By Karl E. Meyer. (Century Foundation/PublicAffairs, $26.) A veteran journalist and scholar revisits the playing fields of the "great game," where Russia and Britain met and blocked each other in a tussle for influence that isn't over yet.
EINSTEIN'S CLOCKS, POINCARE'S MAPS: Empires of Time. By Peter Galison. (Norton, $23.95.) Relativity once more, in a sparkling adventure with the French mathematician who reordered the world's time and the Swiss government patent clerk who realized that nothing could change the speed of light.
ELEONORA DUSE: A Biography. By Helen Sheehy. (Knopf, $32.50.) A smart, industrious, passionate biography of a great figure scarcely anyone now living ever saw, an international superstar in works by Sardou, Zola, Verga and Dumas fils, a sexual adventurer of some note and a willing helper to younger performers.
EMPIRE: The Rise and Demise of the British World Order and the Lessons for Global Power. By Niall Ferguson. (Basic Books, $35.) A young British historian argues that the empire did a lot of good and prevented a lot of evil, and invites the United States to reflect on the possibilities of its global reach.
THE EMPTY OCEAN: Plundering the World's Marine Life. Written and illustrated by Richard Ellis. (Island Press/Shearwater Books, $26.) Ellis combines his narrative skills and his illustrator's hand to present an eloquent account of maritime tragedies wrought by human overuse and abuse, most of it offshore and out of sight.
FAMILY CIRCLE: The Boudins and the Aristocracy of the Left. By Susan Braudy. (Knopf, $27.95.) A powerful narrative that unspools a dreadful episode in lefter-than-thou political activism and revolutionary frustration: Kathy Boudin's part in the killing of two police officers and a Brink's guard in an armored car robbery in 1981, after a decade spent underground.
FANTASTIC METAMORPHOSES, OTHER WORLDS: Ways of Telling the Self. By Marina Warner. (Oxford University, $29.95.) A sprightly, imaginative, playful, fabulously informed public meditation on change: mutating, hatching, splitting, doubling and carrying on.
FAT LAND: How Americans Became the Fattest People in the World. By Greg Critser. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) Americans have increased their daily average intake by 200 calories in two decades, Critser says. Elementary! And the food industry has helped them by discovering ways to get people to eat more and feel good about it.
FEEDING A YEN: Savoring Local Specialties, From Kansas City to Cuzco. By Calvin Trillin. (Random House, $22.95.) In this entertaining paean to the days of "preglobalized eating," Trillin tracks down foods rarely served outside their proper provenance -- from boudin in Louisiana to pimientos de Padron in Galicia.
THE FIFTH BOOK OF PEACE. By Maxine Hong Kingston. (Knopf, $26.) Compounding fiction with memory, as she did in "The Woman Warrior," Kingston transmutes a manuscript she lost in a firestorm into part of this book, which presents hope as an obligation, set over against the despair so easily generated by the conduct of man and nature.
FIRST OFF THE TEE: Presidential Hackers, Duffers, and Cheaters From Taft to Bush. By Don Van Natta Jr. (PublicAffairs, $26.) Van Natta, an investigative reporter for The Times, shows just how much presidential time has been spent ignoring affairs of state and chasing a little white ball around instead.
FOOD, INC.: Mendel to Monsanto -- the Promises and Perils of the Biotech Harvest. By Peter Pringle. (Simon & Schuster, $24.) A fine survey of the battles over genetically altered food, with a colorful cast of academics, activists and corporate suits; Pringle also weighs in with his own admonitions to all sides.
THE FOUNDING FISH. By John McPhee. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) A short personal encyclopedia of a wonderful annual fish, teaching shad history together with shad geography, shad behavior, shad statistics and shad appreciation, wrapped up in McPhee's usual intensely vivid prose.
FRANKIE'S PLACE: A Love Story. By Jim Sterba. (Grove, $23.) A charming memoir of Sterba's courtship and marriage to Frances FitzGerald and summer life in Maine, versatile enough to cover Sterba's experiences as an Asian correspondent for The Times and FitzGerald's own stand against lobster consumption "out of context."
FROM CHIVALRY TO TERRORISM: War and the Changing Nature of Masculinity. By Leo Braudy. (Knopf, $30.) A sweeping examination of the intimate link between war and manhood as society has construed it since the Middle Ages; Braudy reads Al Qaeda as the mortal thrashings of a dying order.
FROM THE LAND OF GREEN GHOSTS: A Burmese Odyssey. By Pascal Khoo Thwe. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) A powerful portrait of his suffering nation, Myanmar, virtually sealed off from the rest of the world for most of the last 40 years, by a sensitive Burmese writer who was lucky enough to escape.
THE FUTURE OF FREEDOM: Illiberal Democracy at Home and Abroad. By Fareed Zakaria. (Norton, $24.95.) The editor of Newsweek International updates Tocqueville's critique of popular government, expanding its reach to the world; unlike Tocqueville, he does not see independent countervailing social institutions containing democracy's excesses.
GAME TIME: A Baseball Companion. By Roger Angell. (Harcourt, $25.) An anthology from 40 years of writing by the foremost interpreter of baseball of our time or our fathers' time (he's now in his 80's); it is the next best thing to being in the bleachers, except when it is better than being in the bleachers.
THE GATE. By Francois Bizot. (Knopf, $24.) Bizot, a French ethnologist seized by Cambodian rebels in 1971, recalls peculiar daily chat sessions over politics and philosophy with his chief captor, an obviously dangerous man who later ran one of the Khmer Rouge's ghastliest killing fields; after three months, Bizot was given an all-night farewell party and released.
GETTYSBURG. By Stephen W. Sears. (Houghton Mifflin, $30.) A vivid, panoramic overview of the remarkable Union victory, by a veteran Civil War historian who finds many of the clues to its outcome in the sequence of events leading to battle.
THE GIRL FROM THE FICTION DEPARTMENT: A Portrait of Sonia Orwell. By Hilary Spurling. (Counterpoint, $24.) A biographer illuminates the brilliant, beautiful, industrious woman who knew everybody in literary London; the model for Julia in "1984," she was Orwell's wife for the last 14 weeks of his life and his executor ever after.
GIVING UP THE GHOST: A Memoir. By Hilary Mantel. (John Macrae/Holt, $23.) A dark tale of extravagant consequences and loathed transformations by a distinguished novelist and critic whose life was permanently compromised by misdiagnosis and foolish medication in her youth. And her mother was awful too. Mantel is still furious, and well able to say why.
GOD'S SECRETARIES: The Making of the King James Bible. By Adam Nicolson. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) A study of the committee of scholars and bishops that produced the 1611 English Bible, a work whose language soars far above any of the more accurate translations that have succeeded it.
GOOD MORNING MIDNIGHT: Life and Death in the Wild. By Chip Brown. (Riverhead, $24.95.) A searching biography, by a journalist, of Guy Waterman, a Republican suburbanite who became a born-again mountaineer in midlife, taking the White Mountains as his backyard; in February 2000, at 67, he killed himself by going outdoors and lying down in the cold.
GOYA. By Robert Hughes. (Knopf, $40.) A dazzling account of Goya's dark genius, informed by the author's own worse-than-death experience after a car crash; he sees Goya as able, more than any 20th-century artist, to "make eloquent and morally urgent art out of human disaster," his pessimism confirmed by a mysterious illness and by the dismal history of Spain in the 18th century, much aggravated by foreigners in the Napoleonic era.
GREAT FORTUNE: The Epic of Rockefeller Center. By Daniel Okrent. (Viking, $29.95.) Nobody loved it in 1929, when it was still only an idea; now it's more of an ideal, an integrated cityscape that works. Okrent retells some old stories very well, and displays a large cast of visionaries, artisans and schemers who were present at the creation.
THE GREAT UNRAVELING: Losing Our Way in the New Century. By Paul Krugman. (Norton, $25.95.) Three years of blunt, efficient writing by a Times columnist and Princeton economics professor radicalized by the presidency of George W. Bush.
THE GREAT WAVE: Gilded Age Misfits, Japanese Eccentrics, and the Opening of Old Japan. By Christopher Benfey. (Random House, $25.95.) A scholar and critic, naming the names and telling the stories, sorts out the maze of interpenetration that sprang up between Japan and the West after Perry's ships came in 1854; they got modern weapons and universities, we got an aesthetic revolution.
GREENBACK: The Almighty Dollar and the Invention of America. By Jason Goodwin. (John Macrae/Holt, $26.) An English historian and travel writer confronts the dazzling proposition that America became rich because people believed in their money, which was made from paper and encouraged speedy spending.
THE GROWING SEASONS: An American Boyhood Before the War. By Samuel Hynes. (Viking, $24.95.) A memoir (by the author of "Flights of Passage") of his Midwestern youth, in which he trained to be a man by being first a boy; it ends with the 18-year-old Hynes saying farewell to his father and waiting for the train that will carry him to World War II.
GULAG: A History. By Anne Applebaum. (Doubleday, $35.) Applebaum, a columnist for The Washington Post, is one of those who think Hitler and Stalin merit the same opprobrium. Using archival material Solzhenitsyn never saw, she supports his analysis of Stalin: Lenin written larger.
THE HOOLIGAN'S RETURN: A Memoir. By Norman Manea. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) Should a distinguished Romanian novelist return from exile in New York? Manea did, after receiving a push from his mother's ghost; a kaleidoscopic excursion into his recent and remote yesterdays results, and he is able to say Kaddish at her grave.
HORSE PEOPLE: Scenes From the Riding Life. By Michael Korda. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) Korda's second memoir is driven by a love story, one woven through with amusing digressions that evoke the emotion connected not so much to the animals as to the people for whom the animals are everything.
THE HOUSE ON BEARTOWN ROAD: A Memoir of Learning and Forgetting. By Elizabeth Cohen. (Random House, $23.95.) Was Cohen downhearted when her Alzheimered father was shipped to her? When her husband abandoned her and their baby? You bet! But from chaos, with help from the neighbors, she made this frank, funny, nonexploitative memoir.
IN PRAISE OF NEPOTISM: A Natural History. By Adam Bellow. (Doubleday, $30.) In this thorough social history, Adam Bellow, a son of novelist Saul Bellow, defines nepotism more broadly, defending our less-than-perfect meritocracy as "both natural and necessary."
INSTRUCTIONS FOR VISITORS: Life and Love in a French Town. By Helen Stevenson. (Washington Square, paper, $13.) Stevenson's beguiling account of her personal and professional coming-of-age in an unnamed town in France's remote South, where she falls in love with a handsome dentist, manages to be both graceful and intensely colored.
INTELLIGENCE IN WAR: Knowledge of the Enemy From Napoleon to Al-Qaeda. By John Keegan. (Knopf, $30.) How useful is espionage in war? Keegan, a military historian, presents several cleareyed case studies, measuring the contribution that intelligence made to victory, with heroic legends often giving way to duller truths.
INTELLIGENCE WARS: American Secret History From Hitler to al-Qaeda. By Thomas Powers. (New York Review, $27.95.) Essays (originally book reviews) by the biographer of Richard Helms, assessing intelligence history in the light of disclosures in the last decade and settling (for now) some ancient controversies about spies, conspiracies, moles and the like.
INTERESTING TIMES: A Twentieth-Century Life. By Eric Hobsbawm. (Pantheon, $30.) A distinguished historian who lived to be virtually the last Communist in Britain explains himself and his years as a believer. Though he was deceived, he was not a fool, and his book provides a marvelous account of how it felt to be an intelligent Communist in the age of Stalin.
INVENTING JAPAN: 1853-1964. By Ian Buruma. (Modern Library, $19.95.) A concise, penetrating examination of the construction of an entirely new Japan after Perry's visit in 1853; in the headlong course of making itself modern, Japan borrowed many authoritarian, even fascist, habits of thought, many of them left in place after 1945.
IRVING HOWE: A Life of Passionate Dissent. By Gerald Sorin. (New York University, $32.95.) A life of the eminent critic and socialist who died in 1993, after a youth of rigid Trotskyism and a maturity that widened his perspectives but kept his intensity intact.
ISAAC NEWTON. By James Gleick. (Pantheon, $22.95.) Color, detail and narrative flow are all nicely handled in this life of the discoverer of the optics of color, the laws of motion, universal gravitation and the calculus -- a man whose life has resisted scrutiny because he was reclusive by nature and evaded criticism by going incommunicado.
JARHEAD: A Marine's Chronicle of the Gulf War and Other Battles. By Anthony Swofford. (Scribner, $24.) A hair-raising memoir that captures the hilarity, tedium and loneliness of the prewar deployment, followed by the appalling, astonishing experience of combat itself, in which terror and joy were one.
JOHN PAUL JONES: Sailor, Hero, Father of the American Navy. By Evan Thomas. (Simon & Schuster, $26.95.) A fascinating life of the reckless adventurer whose mad-dog pugnacity during the Revolution won fights at sea that a sane man would have bent on all sail to avoid.
JOURNAL OF THE DEAD: A Story of Friendship and Murder in the New Mexico Desert. By Jason Kersten. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) A spare, understated account of two inexperienced young men from around Boston who camped out in the New Mexico desert with three pints of water between them and got lost.
KRAKATOA. The Day the World Exploded: August 27, 1883. By Simon Winchester. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) A brilliantly rendered narrative of one of the biggest volcanic explosions in recorded history; Winchester, trained as a geologist, identifies the massive forces at work and tallies the 36,000 deaths, caused not by lava and noxious gases but by seismic sea waves.
THE LANGUAGE POLICE: How Pressure Groups Restrict What Students Learn. By Diane Ravitch. (Knopf, $24.) Education is so squeezed by "bias and sensitivity panels," Ravitch argues in this persuasive study, that what started as an admirable attempt to balance instruction has evolved into censorship.
THE LAST GOOD SEASON: Brooklyn, the Dodgers, and Their Final Pennant Race Together. By Michael Shapiro. (Doubleday, $24.95.) An engaging chronicle of the Dodgers' 1956 season, their next-to-last in Brooklyn, and a sympathetic defense of the team's owner, Walter O'Malley, whose unsuccessful quest for a new stadium ended with the team's departure for Los Angeles.
LAST MAN OUT: The Story of the Springhill Mine Disaster. By Melissa Fay Greene. (Harcourt, $25.) Greene's subject is a coal-mining accident that took place in October 1958 beneath Springhill, Nova Scotia. Nineteen men survived in pockets, to be rescued by fellow workers; Greene notes that television made the event the first mass-consumption disaster.
A LIFE OF PRIVILEGE, MOSTLY. By Gardner Botsford. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) Botsford's lively memoir of growing up as a New Yorker covers his experiences in World War II, but revolves mainly around his years at The New Yorker and the magazine's turbulent internal power struggles.
LOST IN AMERICA: A Journey With My Father. By Sherwin B. Nuland. (Knopf, $24.) Nuland, a distinguished surgeon and medical writer, counts the cost of success in this memoir about becoming an assimilated second-generation American from a home dominated by his angry, altogether unassimilable Orthodox Jewish father.
LOST PROPHET: The Life and Times of Bayard Rustin. By John D'Emilio. (Free Press, $35.) A historian's life of the gay black man he perceives as the "master strategist of social change," who organized the March on Washington for civil rights in 1963 and formulated procedures for Martin Luther King.
LOVE AND HATE IN JAMESTOWN: John Smith, Pocahontas, and the Heart of a New Nation. By David A. Price. (Knopf, $25.95.) A solid, absorbing history of Jamestown (founded 1607), the first English-speaking colony in North America to survive. Its hero is John Smith, but not the same old John Smith; this one is a student of Machiavelli and soldier of fortune who was just what Jamestown needed, especially to deal with the Indians.
MADAM SECRETARY. By Madeleine Albright. (Miramax, $27.95.) A memoir unlike any other by a secretary of state, focusing as much on Albright's voyage of personal discovery -- and the tension between insecurity and ambition -- as on the history of foreign policy during the Clinton administration.
THE MAIN ENEMY: The Inside Story of the CIA's Final Showdown with the KGB. By Milt Bearden and James Risen. (Random House, $27.95.) A trove of stories on once deeply classified subjects in the C.I.A./K.G.B. "mole wars" of the 1980's. Bearden, a 30-year C.I.A. veteran, and Risen, a reporter for The Times, toggle between the thoughts of C.I.A. spymasters and their K.G.B. counterparts, revealing the tricks each side used to throw the other off balance.
THE MEANING OF EVERYTHING: The Story of the Oxford English Dictionary. By Simon Winchester. (Oxford University, $25.) The real story is mostly the story of James Murray, a schoolteacher who knew everything (as so many Victorians did) and who edited the great dictionary heroically from 1879 to 1915 (others completed its 15,490 pages in 1928).
MERCHANTS OF IMMORTALITY: Chasing the Dream of Human Life Extension. By Stephen S. Hall. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) A lucid, thorough report on the developments in biology -- cloning, stem cells, "longevity genes" -- that may not bring about immortality but appear to carry hope of making life a little longer and a great deal nicer toward the end.
MIDDLETOWN, AMERICA: One Town's Passage From Trauma to Hope. By Gail Sheehy. (Random House, $25.95.) In Middletown, N.J., which lost nearly 50 people on Sept. 11, Sheehy intensively observed many survivors and found a positive message: this huge bereavement is also a passage, from which people emerge much changed but alive and effectual.
THE MISS STONE AFFAIR: America's First Modern Hostage Crisis. By Teresa Carpenter. (Simon & Schuster, $24.) A meticulous account of the six-month odyssey that began when some Macedonian Bulgarian revolutionaries kidnapped an American missionary spinster and a pregnant Bulgarian woman in 1901.
MR. JEFFERSON'S UNIVERSITY. By Garry Wills. (National Geographic, $20.) A short, scholarly, insightful rendering of the forms and ideas of Jefferson and his project, a rotunda and double row of pavilions that have more than once been cited as America's greatest work of architecture; Wills's great strength lies in his ability to see political and social ideas in their architectural expressions.
MONEYBALL: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game. By Michael Lewis. (Norton, $24.95.) Lewis, the author of "Liar's Poker," examines the proceedings of Billy Beane, general manager of the Oakland Athletics, who finished first in the American League West last year with as many victories as the Yankees despite the third-smallest payroll in the major leagues.
MONSTER OF GOD: The Man-Eating Predator in the Jungles of History and the Mind. By David Quammen. (Norton, $26.95.) A fine science writer's account of efforts to preserve large carnivores like tigers and crocodiles, and a meditation on what life would be like without them.
MOUNTAINS BEYOND MOUNTAINS. By Tracy Kidder. (Random House, $25.95.) A completely absorbing portrait of Paul Farmer (MacArthur "genius" grant, 1993), a driven, dedicated, rigidly idealistic doctor who commutes between Harvard and Haiti, where he works like mad to relieve the suffering of some of the poorest people on earth.
MOUNTAINS OF THE MIND. By Robert Macfarlane. (Pantheon, $24.) What compels mountain climbers to risk themselves isn't so much their free spirit as the power of advertising; Macfarlane, an English journalist, traces three centuries of thinking that rationalized and romanticized the landscape.
NELSON: Love & Fame. By Edgar Vincent. (Yale University, $35.) This deeply historical, psychological and technical examination of Britain's seaborne superstar of the Napoleonic Wars amply shows how little prepared he was to meet Emma Hamilton; his vulnerability on land was as spectacular as his competence at sea.
THE OPPOSITE OF FATE: A Book of Musings. By Amy Tan. (Putnam, $24.95.) In this collection of sharp autobiographical essays, Tan reports on her own very American negotiations with her Chinese background and destiny, including a peaceful settlement with a depressive mother, hellbent on raising an obedient daughter.
OUR OWN DEVICES: The Past and Future of Body Technology. By Edward Tenner. (Knopf, $26.) Charming, loosely connected essays on developments like eyeglasses, shoes, chairs and other inventions that have changed our lives and bodies in unforeseen ways (tender feet, weaker spines); by a researcher at the National Museum of American History.
PARTING THE DESERT: The Creation of the Suez Canal. By Zachary Karabell. (Knopf, $27.50.) An authoritative account of the work of Ferdinand de Lesseps, a Frenchman who replaced sand with seawater in 1869, allowing great ships and Western prestige to fare expeditiously through the middle of the Muslim heartland.
PERSEPOLIS. By Marjane Satrapi. (Pantheon, $17.95.) A dramatic, witty, insouciant autobiography in bold, densely rendered comic-book form by a woman born to the leftish secular bourgeoisie of 1960's Iran; she was 10 when the shah fell and his tyranny was replaced by the ayatollah version. The book ends when she is 14 and her parents put her on a plane for some safer place (she now lives in France).
PIECES OF MY MIND: Essays and Criticism 1958-2002. By Frank Kermode. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) A collection that condenses a lifetime of careful reading and intense critical activity into 26 essays addressing in disarmingly straightforward prose the big questions of half a century: What is modernity? What is a classic? What is criticism for?
POSITIVELY FIFTH STREET: Murderers, Cheetahs, and Binion's World Series of Poker. By James McManus. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) Assigned to cover the event for Harper's Magazine, McManus entered the tournament and finished fifth, winning a fair bundle and a useful point of view not often accessible to the literati.
A POTENT SPELL: Mother Love and the Power of Fear. By Janna Malamud Smith. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) A fervent examination of the powerful, visceral anxiety of mothers for their children's lives and welfare, and of its exploitation by experts and authorities interested in keeping mothers scared and in their place.
PROTECTING AMERICA'S HEALTH: The FDA, Business, and One Hundred Years of Regulation. By Philip J. Hilts. (Knopf, $26.95.) A thoroughly documented history of the first internal federal agency charged with protecting individual citizens, and of numerous efforts to improve it or wreck it since its beginnings.
PUBLIC PLACES: My Life in the Theater, With Peter O'Toole and Beyond. By Sian Phillips. (Faber & Faber, $30.) A finely observed memoir, by a versatile actress, that recalls a marriage in the limelight and considers the plight of smart women chained to impossible men.
PUSHKIN: A Biography. By T. J. Binyon. (Knopf, $35.) An informed study by a lecturer in Russian literature at Oxford, presenting a man tormented by irrational fits, mood swings, delusional jealousy, huge debts and general disorganization, with few redeeming factors besides his genius as a poet.
RAISING AMERICA: Experts, Parents, and a Century of Advice About Children. By Ann Hulbert. (Knopf, $27.50.) To what, exactly, has the vast body of expert opinion about child rearing finally amounted? Hulbert's prodigious collection of material represents it mainly as teeter-tottering between discipline and permissiveness, sometimes inside the same expert at different stages.
REEFER MADNESS: Sex, Drugs, and Cheap Labor in the American Black Market. By Eric Schlosser. (Houghton Mifflin, $23.) Schlosser, the author of "Fast Food Nation," turns his attention to three facets of America's estimated $650 billion underground economy, blending big-picture analyses with fascinating individual case studies.
REGARDING THE PAIN OF OTHERS. By Susan Sontag. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $20.) In this long, reflective essay, which examines photographs of calamities and the moral uses of looking at them, Sontag follows the trail of photojournalism from the Crimean War on and refines some of the observations of her 1977 book, "On Photography."
RETURN TO PARIS: A Memoir. By Colette Rossant. (Atria, $22.) For Rossant, a cookbook author, coming-of-age in Paris meant being torn between two homes (Egypt and France) and, inevitably, two culinary cultures.
RIVER OF SHADOWS: Eadweard Muybridge and the Technological Wild West. By Rebecca Solnit. (Viking, $25.95.) A remarkable historical reading of the American West as a fount of technological and perceptual change, arising from a study of Muybridge, whose stop-motion photos presaged the movies.
THE ROAD TO HOME: My Life and Times. By Vartan Gregorian. (Simon & Schuster, $29.95.) Born to a poor family of Christian Armenians in Iran, Gregorian rose to become president of the New York Public Library and, later, the president of Brown University, but maintains the capacity for astonishment in this graceful memoir.
ROSEMARY AND BITTER ORANGES: Growing Up in a Tuscan Kitchen. By Patrizia Chen. (Scribner, $24.) A dreamy memoir of her childhood in postwar Livorno; Chen remembers her grandparents fondly, but where food is concerned, she disavows their culinary blandness and allies herself with the family's adventurous cook.
SEA OF GLORY: America's Voyage of Discovery, the U.S. Exploring Expedition, 1838-1842. By Nathaniel Philbrick. (Viking, $27.95.) A fascinating, meticulous account of an immense (six ships, 346 men) project whose prime purpose was to produce charts for American whalers; the last all-sail mission to circumnavigate the globe, it logged 87,000 miles in four years but lost recognition when Americans took to expanding westward on the ground.
SECRET EMPIRE: Eisenhower, the CIA and the Hidden Story of America's Space Espionage. By Philip Taubman. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) Taubman, a longtime correspondent and editor for The Times, chronicles the development of overhead reconnaissance, a technology that made the world safer by providing accurate information about Soviet capacities.
SEEKING RAPTURE: Scenes From a Woman's Life. By Kathryn Harrison. (Random House, $22.95.) Personal essays by a novelist whose characters have been shadowed by possession; here she inspects the turbulence of her own past, examining love and its distortions in a family -- notably her worship of her mother and her drastic efforts to cure it.
THE SERENITY PRAYER: Faith and Politics in Times of Peace and War. By Elisabeth Sifton. (Norton, $26.95.) A loving portrait, by a distinguished book editor, of her father, the theologian Reinhold Niebuhr (possibly the author of the famous prayer), and the friends and family, mainly social and religious progressives, who once spent their summers in an idyllic nowhere in northwestern Massachusetts, a village whose sweetness Sifton renders palpable.
SEVEN AGES OF PARIS. By Alistair Horne. (Knopf, $35.) A British historian's evocation of the world's favorite city, from its Roman period to the riots of 1968. His heroes are the builders who made Paris: Louis IX with his Sainte-Chapelle, Henri IV for his Place des Vosges, Baron Haussmann for the open, harmonious plan that marks Paris to this day.
A SHORTCUT THROUGH TIME: The Path to the Quantum Computer. By George Johnson. (Knopf, $24.) A science writer and veteran explainer communicates some of the propositions offered by theorists about the virtually unlimited computing power that may follow certain practical triumphs that are not quite in sight.
A SHORT HISTORY OF NEARLY EVERYTHING. By Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $27.50.) Neither oversimplified nor overstuffed, this exceptionally skillful tour of the physical world covers the basic principles and still has room for profiles of some of the more engaging scientists, like Isaac Newton, who (literally) stuck a needle in his eye.
SONGBOOK. By Nick Hornby. (McSweeney's, $26; a CD is included.) A small, singular, delightful collection of 26 essays by a music freak, each devoted to one or two pop recordings, trying to cope with the power of songs to bind people culturally and to reach deeply into the human spirit, bending the heart into new shapes with new potentials.
SPEAKING OF BEAUTY. By Denis Donoghue. (Yale University, $24.95.) A book of practical criticism that is also an enactment of cultural studies, allowing 20th-century literary theorists on board without giving them the wheel; Donoghue, as his title shows, has not abandoned the idea that some things of human making are superior to some other such things.
THE SPECKLED PEOPLE. By Hugo Hamilton. (Fourth Estate, $24.95.) A painful, funny memoir, told from a young boy's point of view, about growing up in a household at odds with the world around it. Hamilton, the son of a German mother and an Irish father, was taunted as a "Nazi" in postwar Dublin and ridiculed for his father's crusade to de-Anglicize Ireland.
STAN AND OLLIE. The Roots of Comedy: The Double Life of Laurel and Hardy. By Simon Louvish. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $27.95.) An informative biography of two of Hollywood's masters of comic mayhem; Louvish charts a partnership that spanned three decades (1921-51), produced more than 100 films and survived the transition from silent film to sound.
THE STORY OF MY FATHER: A Memoir. By Sue Miller. (Knopf, $22.50.) A familiar but still touching story of a parent's descent into Alzheimer's disease; the deeper Miller's father sinks into confusion, the more powerfully candid her writing becomes.
THE STORYTELLER'S DAUGHTER. By Saira Shah. (Knopf, $24.) A brilliant and moving memoir by the journalist who narrated the documentary "Beneath the Veil," a daughter of a distinguished Afghan expatriate family; she grew up in England but is often homesick for Afghanistan, where, she believes, Western interference blows hot and cold and inopportunely.
THE STUFF OF LIFE: A Daughter's Memoir. By Karen Karbo. (Bloomsbury, $24.95.) A painful memoir of her difficult father's decline and death from cancer, by a novelist and magazine writer who had to take care of him, and also had to despair of taking care of him; from this she saw that the heart doesn't break clean and the dying depart from you long before they die.
THE SUBSTANCE OF STYLE: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture, and Consciousness. By Virginia Postrel. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) An overview of what Postrel, an Economic Scene columnist for The Times, calls "the aesthetic age," in which style matters as much as substance and is rooted not in market manipulation but in "fundamental, biologically based human wants."
TALES OF INNOCENCE AND EXPERIENCE: An Exploration. By Eva Figes. (Bloomsbury, $23.95.) There is a poetic delicacy -- but nothing cute -- about this British writer's account of grandparenthood, which is also a story of Figes' escape from Nazi Germany to England in 1939.
THE TEAMMATES. By David Halberstam. (Hyperion, $22.95.) An elegant account of the lives and friendships of four legendary Boston Red Sox: Ted Williams, Dominic DiMaggio, Johnny Pesky and Bobby Doerr; the story unfolds in a series of flashbacks as DiMaggio and Pesky drive 1,300 miles to Florida to visit the ailing Williams.
TERROR AND LIBERALISM. By Paul Berman. (Norton, $21.) This personal manifesto by a liberal interventionist tries to chart a course between right-wing "realists" and left-wing "anti-imperialists" now that the totalitarian mental modes of Communism and fascism have been inherited chiefly by angry Muslims.
TERROR IN THE NAME OF GOD: Why Religious Militants Kill. By Jessica Stern. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $27.95.) By talking over four years to hard-line haters around the globe, from Hamas to American Identity Christians to Jews who think the United States conspires against Israel, Stern finds many invincible convictions held by groups that differ chiefly in whom they think God loves the most.
TESTAMENT: A Soldier's Story of the Civil War. By Benson Bobrick. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) A versatile historian constructs this portrait of one of his own great-grandfathers, a Union soldier in the Civil War; based on a collection of his letters from 1861 to 1864, it shows a likable, brave, selfless young man worn weary by time and family casualties.
THEY MARCHED INTO SUNLIGHT: War and Peace, Vietnam and America, October 1967. By David Maraniss. (Simon & Schuster, $29.95.) A big narrative by a reporter who juxtaposes a ghastly little battle in Vietnam with an antiwar and anti-Dow demonstration at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, on the same two days. Marianiss captures moral conviction and moral ambiguity everywhere, without stereotyping or condescension.
THINGS MY MOTHER NEVER TOLD ME. By Blake Morrison. (Granta, $24.95.) An ambitious epistolary memoir, drawing on a big cache of letters exchanged by Morrison's parents during World War II. Eavesdropping on their courtship lets him produce a remarkable home-front atmosphere with a special focus on his mother's concealment of her Irish origins.
A TIME OF OUR CHOOSING: America's War in Iraq. By Todd S. Purdum and the staff of The New York Times. (Times Books/Holt, $25.) A guide to the causes, conduct and consequences, deftly woven by Purdum into a coherent narrative; with a chronology since 9/11/01.
TRIANGLE: The Fire That Changed America. By David Von Drehle. (Atlantic Monthly, $25.) An account of the Triangle Waist Company fire in Manhattan in 1911, which killed 146 garment workers and led to reformed labor laws in New York; the author, a Washington Post reporter, provides a detailed background portrait of the city and the times.
TWENTIETH-CENTURY ATTITUDES: Literary Powers in Uncertain Times. By Brooke Allen. (Ivan R. Dee, $26.) Allen's tart, entertaining collection of essays, many of which originally appeared in The New Criterion, deals as much with the lives of writers as with their work.
ULTIMATE FITNESS: The Quest for Truth About Exercise and Health. By Gina Kolata. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) Tracing the country's fitness craze and the science behind it, Kolata, a science reporter for The Times, taps into her own obsession with exercise, tempering skepticism with a refreshingly honest mixture of vanity, hedonism and hope of longevity.
UNDER THE BANNER OF HEAVEN: A Story of Violent Faith. By Jon Krakauer. (Doubleday, $26.) An arresting portrait of Mormon fundamentalism -- and, by extension, the spiraling of fundamentalism into violence -- centered on the crime of Dan and Ron Lafferty, who killed their brother's wife and infant daughter in 1984, and claimed they had acted on direct orders from God.
AN UNFINISHED LIFE: John F. Kennedy, 1917-1963. By Robert Dallek. (Little, Brown, $30.) Granted access to Kennedy's private medical records, Dallek, a presidential historian at Boston University, looks unflinchingly at a presidency and a man who was (and still is) the model of youthful vigor despite an assortment of physical problems.
UNTANGLING MY CHOPSTICKS: A Culinary Sojourn in Kyoto. By Victoria Abbot Riccardi. (Broadway, $23.95.) Riccardi, a trained chef and disaffected New Yorker, spent a year in Kyoto studying kaiseki, the ceremonial tea cuisine developed by Buddhist monks as a guide toward meditation and enlightenment.
A VENETIAN AFFAIR. By Andrea di Robilant. (Knopf, $24.) Di Robilant elicits, from family documents, an engrossing love story of the 18th century, about one of his aristocratic ancestors and a beautiful, intelligent woman who was altogether unsuitable to the family.
W. B. YEATS: A Life. Volume 2: The Arch-Poet, 1915-1939. By R. F. Foster. (Oxford University, $45.) Chosen by Yeats's family in 1985, when he was 36, Foster concludes his life of the great Irish poet, revolutionary and revelation seeker; Foster is a wise and ingenious reader of the poems and is particularly good on the relationship with George Hyde Lees and the automatic writings.
W. C. FIELDS: A Biography. By James Curtis. (Knopf, $35.) A scrupulous, sympathetic life of the great performer who projected in his characters -- sly, blustering, bibulous loners protecting themselves with a smoke screen of gab -- reflections of real human nature as he had observed it for himself.
WHAT EVERY PERSON SHOULD KNOW ABOUT WAR. By Chris Hedges. (Free Press, paper, $11.) An arresting, peculiar, amply footnoted little book that deals, in Q. and A. form, with issues like "What are the most common forms of physical torture?"; by a Times reporter who has covered several wars.
WHEELS FOR THE WORLD: Henry Ford, His Company, and a Century of Progress, 1903-2003. By Douglas Brinkley. (Viking, $34.95.) A mighty, sprawling narrative synthesis focused on the family, especially Henry I, an American original who knew how to get people to do what he wanted done.
WHEN HOLLYWOOD HAD A KING: The Reign of Lew Wasserman, Who Leveraged Talent Into Power and Influence. By Connie Bruck. (Random House, $29.95.) A methodical portrait of the great chief of MCA, a secretive mogul whose vindictiveness and cunning was well matched by his shrewdness and prescience.
WHERE I WAS FROM. By Joan Didion. (Knopf, $23.) In a radically revisionary assessment of her home and her opinions, Didion gives up on California and its inhabitants, including her own pioneer family; she now sees the state's history as a fiasco, a saga of advancement with other people's money, chiefly the government's, spent on behalf of business interests.
THE WHITE ROCK: An Exploration of the Inca Heartland. By Hugh Thomson. (Overlook, $27.95.) The author's account of his successful quest to discover a lost ruin in the intractable Peruvian Andes, with an architecturally informed analysis of the Incas' penchant for mountain landscapes and for responding creatively to them.
WHY AMERICA SLEPT: The Failure to Prevent 9/11. By Gerald Posner. (Random House, $24.95.) Posner has built a reputation for debunking popular conspiracy theories, but here he offers a provocative one of his own: Saudi Arabia was a partner to Al Qaeda in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
YOGA FOR PEOPLE WHO CAN'T BE BOTHERED TO DO IT. By Geoff Dyer. (Pantheon, $22.) A delightful counterguide by a countertourist, who has visited the classic loci -- Paris, Bali, Rome, New Orleans -- without seeing a sight or snapping a picture. The author, who by the end of his travels is in his early 40's, looks everywhere for states of mind attainable through drugs or through ancient ruins.
ZORA NEALE HURSTON: A Life in Letters. Edited by Carla Kaplan. (Doubleday, $40.) Nearly 900 pages clarify some of Hurston's views about art and politics yet cannot unlock the true heart of an infinitely inventive black writer who posed as different things to different people.

MYSTERIES
THE BABES IN THE WOOD. By Ruth Rendell. (Crown, $25.) Supple prose, intricate plotting and an ominous atmosphere draw us into this disquieting case of Chief Inspector Wexford, involving two teenagers who disappear during ferocious rainstorms that flood Kingsmarkham and drench the story with intimations of nature's dark forces raging out of control.
DONE FOR A DIME. By David Corbett. (Ballantine, $24.95.) The death of an old jazz musician, the axman for legends like Bobby Blue Bland and King Curtis, sounds the blue note of this dazzling novel, narrated in the blunt and vigorous idiom of California noir but full of compassion for marginal people whose rights are trampled upon by power brokers.
FEAR ITSELF. By Walter Mosley. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) Paris Minton, the lily-livered bookstore owner who wouldn't last a minute on the rough streets of Los Angeles without his deadly friend, Fearless Jones, invites trouble by trying to help a frantic mother locate the runaway father of her child, in a noir tale driven by its high-stepping, fast-talking characters.
HEX. By Maggie Estep. (Three Rivers, paper, $14.) Ruby Murphy, the Coney Island drifter whose free spirit accounts for the ravishing originality of this idiosyncratic first mystery, falls for a perfect stranger's sob story and goes undercover as a stablehand at Belmont Park to keep tabs on a stable groom with sexy eyes and a mysterious past.
MAISIE DOBBS. By Jacqueline Winspear. (Soho, $24.) The resourceful heroine of this haunting first novel applies her experiences as a battlefield nurse in World War I to her new career as a private investigator, scandalizing society but offering a humane psychological approach to a harrowing case involving physically and mentally shattered war veterans.
RESURRECTION MEN. By Ian Rankin. (Little, Brown, $19.95.) It could just be John Rebus's paranoia kicking in again, but the abrasive Edinburgh cop suspects he is under internal surveillance when he is taken off a murder investigation for remedial training at the Scottish Police College, along with five other officers in need of an attitude overhaul.
SOUL CIRCUS. By George P. Pelecanos. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) Fascinated with the way crime actually works, Pelecanos takes apart the gun trade like an urban anthropologist, fitting the pieces into the thriving drug industry and gang culture of a Washington neighborhood where enterprising criminals work hard to make a dishonest living.

SCIENCE FICTION
ALTERED CARBON. By Richard K. Morgan. (Del Rey/Ballantine, paper, $13.95.) In this rousing first novel, Morgan reimagines Chandler's "Big Sleep" as 25th-century noir, with a Philip Marlowe-esque protagonist trying to avoid "real death" in a world where serial resurrection is a privilege of the rich and ruthless.
BLIND LAKE. By Robert Charles Wilson. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $24.95.) A genre-stretching first-contact-with-aliens story that begins with interstellar eavesdropping and ends with a new level of cosmic intimacy.
CHANGING PLANES. By Ursula K. Le Guin. (Harcourt, $22.) Philosophical fiction in the manner of Jonathan Swift and Jorge Luis Borges; dispensing with the technojargon of science fiction, Le Guin offers a grand tour of imaginary societies whose governing principles range from inspiring to disgusting to almost unbearably poignant.
EVOLUTION. By Stephen Baxter. (Del Rey/Ballantine, $25.95.) In a work of outrageous ambition, Baxter sets out to dramatize the grand sweep of primate development, from a rodent-like Eve scrabbling for survival in the dinosaur-dominated forests of North America 65 million years ago to an imaginary whimper some 500 million years in the future. He comes closer to succeeding than seems humanly possible.
GRASS FOR HIS PILLOW. By Lian Hearn. (Riverhead, $24.95.) Set in a medieval Japan of the imagination, the deliciously readable sequel to "Across the Nightingale Floor" continues the story of Otori Takeo and his lover Kaede, who must exercise their considerable powers to withstand the manifold forces arrayed against them.
THE PHOENIX EXULTANT and THE GOLDEN TRANSCENDENCE: Or, the Last of the Masquerade. By John C. Wright. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $24.95 and $25.95.) Books 2 and 3 of a philosophical space opera that follows the efforts of a multitalented hero named Phaethon to return a sense of adventure to a self-satisfied utopia that commands almost unlimited power.
THE X PRESIDENT. By Philip Baruth. (Bantam, paper, $11.95.) History won't stand still in this clever time-travel romp about mid-21st-century spooks who try to unmake a war by changing a presidential decision in the past. The president in question, identified throughout as "BC," appears as a 16-year-old boy and a 109-year-old man.

CHILDREN'S BOOKS
ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND: A Pop-Up Adaptation of Lewis Carroll's Original Tale. Illustrated by Robert Sabuda. (Little Simon/Simon & Schuster, $19.95.) (All ages) A faithful adaptation of the original text is combined with intelligent paper trickery, and the result is worth reading and playing with repeatedly and often. 
ARNIE THE DOUGHNUT. Written and illustrated by Laurie Keller. (Holt, $16.95.) (Ages 4 to 8) This book about a wide-eyed young hero with a plain name and decent nature is filled with visual and verbal delights as it follows the adventures of a doughnut.
A DAY IN THE LIFE OF MURPHY. Written and illustrated by Alice Provensen. (Simon & Schuster, $16.95.) (Ages 3 to 7) "Murphy-Stop-That is my name" says the terrier narrator, rushing and yapping from dawn till well after dark. He practically jumpsoff the page and is a total delight.
THE DAY THE BABIES CRAWLED AWAY. Written and illustrated by Peggy Rathmann. (Putnam, $16.99.) (All ages) An enchanting adventure told in verse, and seen entirely in silhouette illustrations set against a color-changing sky. The babies crawl away from a party and are rescued by a brave boy in a fireman's hat.
THE MAN WHO WALKED BETWEEN THE TOWERS. (Roaring Brook, $17.95.) (Ages 5 and up) A stunning account of Philippe Petit's stroll between the towers of the World Trade Center in 1974, including double-page spreads that are "terrifying and beautiful."
MORRIS THE ARTIST. By Lore Segal. Illustrated by Boris Kulikov. (Frances Foster/ Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $16.) (Ages 4 to 8) Morris is a reluctant guest at another child's birthday party. His "self-obsession knows no bounds," but his artistic impulses win out and turn a mere party into a glorious celebration.
THE TREE OF LIFE: A Book Depicting the Life of Charles Darwin, Naturalist, Geologist & Thinker. Written and illustrated by Peter Sis. (Frances Foster/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $18.) (Ages 8 and up) This work succeeds brilliantly in arresting and educating the eye in the way it presents the life and work of the great scientist.
WHEN EVERYBODY WORE A HAT. Written and illustrated by William Steig. (Joanna Cotler/HarperCollins, $17.99.) (Ages 4 and up) A witty memoir in pictures by the great artist and storyteller who died in October.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Chris Van Allsburg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); POETRY (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); POTATO FARMING (90%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (78%); LITERATURE GENRES (78%); WRITERS (78%); MURDER (70%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (69%); WORLD WAR II (67%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (67%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (67%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (65%); VIETNAM WAR (62%); ART DEALERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) THAILAND (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



168 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: The Week Ahead; 
ECONOMY

BYLINE:  By Edmund L. Andrews

 BODY:
 The American economy has moved into high gear, and job creation is finally beginning to pick up, but the Federal Reserve is not about to declare victory. The Fed's monetary policy committee, which meets Tuesday, is all but certain to leave the federal funds rate for overnight loans between banks at just 1 percent, the lowest level in 45 years. 
Most analysts also predict the Fed will repeat its open-ended commitment to keep policy loose "for a considerable period." 
 Fed officials want to see a bigger decline in unemployment, and were probably not impressed by news on Friday that the jobless rate edged down to 5.9 percent from 6.0 percent. As for inflation, Fed officials still appear to be more worried about prices going down than up. Edmund L. Andrews

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); JOB CREATION (88%); MONETARY POLICY (88%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); CALENDARS (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (85%); INTEREST RATES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



169 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 4147 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE 

BYLINE:  By Martin Filler; Martin Filler is the architecture critic of The New Republic and frequently writes for The New York Review of Books and House & Garden magazine.

 BODY:
SYMPHONY: Frank Gehry's Walt Disney Concert Hall. Essays by Richard Koshalek et al. Photographs by Grant Mudford. (Abrams in association with the Los Angeles Philharmonic, $60.) 
 FOG: Flowing in All Directions. (CIRCA/Museum of Contemporary Art, $75.) If Frank Gehry could be compared to a character by Walt Disney, for whom the architect's magnificent new concert hall in Los Angeles is named, it would be Mickey Mouse as the sorcerer's apprentice in "Fantasia." Just as the magician's assistant was overwhelmed by the proliferating brooms and pails he conjured up but could not control, so Gehry, in the aftermath of his watershed Guggenheim Museum Bilbao, has struggled to keep pace with exponentially expanding demands on his time and talent. Some people wondered whether his newfound power was actually a curse: how could he pull another one out of his hat like his Spanish marvel? 
 Proof that Gehry has exceeded his earlier triumph is plentiful in "Symphony: Frank Gehry's Walt Disney Concert Hall," a handsome monograph published to coincide with the auditorium's opening in October. This collection of writings by several of the project's principals -- including the architect and Esa-Pekka Salonen, the Los Angeles Philharmonic's music director -- is supplemented by essays that discuss the building in its architectural and urban contexts. In their recounting of this problem-plagued 16-year commission (begun before Bilbao), Richard Koshalek, a member of the selection panel that recommended Gehry, and Diana Hutt, an architectural historian, tell the truth but not the whole truth. Though it isn't expected that commemorative tributes like this serve as exposes, the authors' overly sanitized version of an instructive creative struggle leaves too much to be explained. The record the book offers is worthy, but selective.
Grant Mudford's exceptional color photographs of the construction process and the sublime finished product illustrate why this is unquestionably the building of the year. Clad in a shimmering skin of stainless steel, the hall's voluptuous, swirling forms evoke the contours of full-blown sails tacking in the wind, but Gehry rises above literal representation and ascends into poetic abstraction. He has given Los Angeles its long-awaited crowning glory. 
The excitement of Gehry's newest architecture is palpable in "FOG: Flowing in All Directions," which accompanies "Frank O. Gehry: Work in Progress," an exhibition of 11 recent projects on view at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles through Jan. 26. This vibrantly offbeat catalog, designed by Tracey Shiffman, features Daniel Joseph Martinez's arresting head shots of the architect, his partners and office staff, among them his wife, Berta (administration), and son Alejandro (product design). Though Gehry is today's architectural superstar, more than many of his peers he acknowledges the collaborative nature of his medium, and this collegial portrait gallery confers much deserved visibility on his devoted teammates. 
PARIS: City of Art. By Jean-Marie Perouse de Montclos. (Vendome, $85.) Weighing a hefty 11 pounds, this surpassingly rich visual and intellectual feast is the luxury book bargain of the season. With a tone at once magisterial and personal, learned but accessible, the historian and curator Jean-Marie Perouse de Montclos (well served by a sympathetic squadron of translators) conducts a stately promenade through the 23 centuries since a Celtic people called the Parisii settled on the Seine's Ile de la Cite. Though the work's subtitle leads one to believe that its subject is painting and sculpture, which are indeed fully represented, its primary theme is the architecture of the City of Light, and rarely has it shone more brightly on the printed page.
Perouse de Montclos's method of examining landmarks individually and in depth opens our eyes to treasures that even habitues of Paris may have missed. On my next trip there I plan to seek out the city's largest ancient ruin, the great Roman baths on the Left Bank, dating from the turn of the third century, when the town was called Lutetia. Also unfamiliar to me was the 18th-century Saint-James Folly in Neuilly, a romantic caprice juxtaposing a serene Classical portico against a faux grotto of rough-hewn boulders. And I can't wait to see Louis-Auguste Boileau's neo-Gothic Church of Saint-Eugene and Sainte-Cecile, consecrated in 1855, a riot of color and pattern with slender, painted cast-iron columns supporting vividly hued vaults aglitter with gilt stars. This overwhelming, surprise-packed compendium brings to mind a Cole Porter lyric: "You may know Paris, but you don't know Paree."
BUTABU: Adobe Architecture of West Africa. By James Morris. Text by Suzanne Preston Blier. (Princeton Architectural Press, $50.) The British photographer James Morris easily takes the palm for the year's most haunting architectural images with this album of the baked mud buildings of Benin, Burkina Faso, Mali and Niger. These sensuously hand-modeled and boldly painted structures -- incorporating distantly perceived elements from Islamic and European traditions along with wholly spontaneous outbursts of indigenous invention -- mix the raw vitality of folk art with the mad flights of imagination generally ascribed to high-style mavericks like Gaudi or Gehry. 
One wonders how long Morris had to tarry to achieve such luminous gradations of light and atmosphere in these breathtaking pictures. The graceful way in which he incorporates human and animal figures into his compositions -- helpfully, because the scale of these idiosyncratic buildings is difficult for the untutored eye to gauge without them -- adds immeasurably to their engaging humanity and exquisite strangeness.
VILLAS OF TUSCANY. Text by Carlo Cresti. Photographs by Massimo Listri. (Vendome, $50.) 
ITALIAN VILLAS. Text and photography by Ovidio Guaita. (Abbeville, $75.) There seems to be no end to the enduring spell that the northern Italian countryside casts over some people's imaginative lives. It is that perpetual audience of well-heeled, well-read, well-traveled romantics -- the "Room With a View," "Enchanted April" and "Under the Tuscan Sun" crowd -- that the publishers of these sumptuous books obviously have in mind. Carlo Cresti and Massimo Listri's "Villas of Tuscany" is marginally more appealing. However, Ovidio Guaita's "Italian Villas" shows American novices the important regional distinctions that make the grand country house in foggy Piedmont a very different thing from what it is in sunny Sicily. It also contains a helpful comparative gazetteer illustrating local renditions of building components common throughout Italy. 
NICHOLAS HAWKSMOOR: Rebuilding Ancient Wonders. By Vaughan Hart. (Paul Mellon Center/Yale University, $60.) Overshadowed during his lifetime by the commanding Sir Christopher Wren, for whom he worked on St. Paul's Cathedral, Nicholas Hawksmoor in the long view of history seems quite the more interesting architect. Hawksmoor's quirky, vigorous variations on well-worn classical themes gave London several of its most remarkable religious edifices, planned between 1714 and 1730. His Christ Church Spitalfields is a convincing pileup of gutsy improvisations derived from published sources but then deliciously twisted. Those clever adaptations include a projecting portico with a central barrel vault flanked by Tuscan columns, transposed from the tripartite window format usually called Palladian but in fact cribbed from the Renaissance master Sebastiano Serlio. My favorite is St. Mary Woolnoth. Its forceful geometric facade, deeply scored with horizontal rustication, sets the stage for Etienne-Louis Boullee and Claude-Nicolas Ledoux's protomodern classicism late in that century. 
Vaughan Hart, who teaches architectural history at the University of Bath, does a commendable job with this first in-depth study of Hawksmoor in almost 45 years. Hart stresses the contrast between the architect's fiercely adventurous aesthetic -- derided by the play-it-by-the-book Palladians who dominated English patronage during the diminished late phase of his career -- and his calm, unassuming personality. He endured galling professional setbacks and crippling attacks of gout with the same philosophical equanimity, if not acquiescence.
YIN YU TANG: The Architecture and Daily Life of a Chinese House. By Nancy Berliner. (Tuttle, $34.95.) Museum houses can be dry and lifeless things. Not so with the most thrilling reconstitution of a foreign structure brought to America in many years. A classic country courtyard house of the Qing dynasty, Yin Yu Tang (the three words respectively mean shade/shelter, abundance and hall) was built around 1800 by a merchant clan in Huang Cun, a remote village in the Huizhou region of China's Anhui province. In 1996 the forsaken relic was about to be sold, and in all likelihood demolished, when Nancy Berliner, now curator of Chinese art at the Peabody Essex Museum in Salem, Mass., chanced upon it and set in motion its astonishing international journey. 
The Peabody Essex owns a number of historic houses, some of which have been moved to its campus, but the possibility of adding one from the Far East and dating to the zenith of the China trade, Salem's major source of wealth, seemed no less than providential. The complex tale of Yin Yu Tang's salvation, careful dismantling, painstaking reconstruction and authentic refurnishing at the New England institution is alluded to in a brief epilogue.
But it is the profoundly moving saga of the Huang family, generations of whom lived and died in Yin Yu Tang, that raises this above a routine preservation success story. The many woes that have racked China and its resilient people over centuries cannot but arouse our empathy for the valiant Huangs, whose ancestral residence became a palimpsest of those wider tribulations. Their touching and uplifting stories, told in the first person through letters, diaries and interviews, confirm how the psychic relationship between house and home is by far the most elemental function of architecture.
SEA-CAPTAINS' HOUSES AND ROSE-COVERED COTTAGES: The Architectural Heritage of Nantucket Island. By Margaret Moore Booker, Rose Gonnella and Patricia Egan Butler. (Universe in association with the Egan Institute of Maritime Studies, $45.) The innate and seemingly infallible wisdom of American vernacular construction in the 18th and 19th centuries is underscored on every page of this informative but cautionary survey of building traditions on Nantucket. Always less luxurious and sophisticated than the architecture of Massachusetts's international trading port of Salem, the Nantucket style was provincial in the best sense, expressing a forthright simplicity that observed all the niceties of good taste and proper proportion. 
After Nantucket prospered during the high tide of the whaling industry -- clean-burning whale oil was the preferred fuel for indoor illumination before natural gas -- it went into steep economic decline and entered a long period of benign neglect that happily kept its original character intact. The island's fortunes revived at the turn of the last century when it was rediscovered by appreciative summer vacationers, including many artists, writers and actors who found it an unspoiled time capsule of a vanished America. 
Preserving the low-key qualities that make Nantucket so charming has been no easy task over the past few decades, yet efforts to enforce restrictions on the style, scale, materials and color of new construction have been largely successful. Though this now fashionable destination has been spared the widespread depredations that have engulfed the South Fork of Long Island, it too has its share of late-model trophy houses. The owners of Travis Price's postmodern Gamble house of 1989 on Pocomo Point willnot be overjoyed to see their showy Colonial-pastiche summer place illustrated as a textbook example of how not to live in harmony with three centuries of intelligently evolved design. 
THOMAS JECKYLL: Architect and Designer, 1827-1881. By Susan Weber Soros and Catherine Arbuthnott. (Bard Graduate Center/Yale University, $85.) Ever since she founded the Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts, Design and Culture in New York City 10 years ago, its director, Susan Weber Soros, an art historian and philanthropist, has been rewriting history. The exemplary exhibitions she has mounted at the center's Upper West Side gallery, and the publications produced in conjunction with them, have expanded scholarship and deepened understanding of the decorative arts, particularly 19th-century European design.
The latest of Soros's admirable rediscoveries is the British architect and designer Thomas Jeckyll, subject of a retrospective at the Bard Graduate Center Gallery earlier this year. Starting out in the Gothic Revival style like his older contemporary A. W. N. Pugin (given a Bard show in 1996), Jeckyll set sail for the wilder shores of the Aesthetic Movement, that improbable Victorian amalgam of Far Eastern, medieval and Queen Anne influences.
An architect of talent but a decorator of genius, Jeckyll collaborated most memorably with James McNeill Whistler on the blue-and-gold Peacock Room, created in 1875-76 for the London mansion of the industrialist Frederick Leyland. Conceived as a showcase for Leyland's collection of blue-and-white porcelain, this shelf-bedecked dining salon (now reinstalled at the Freer Gallery in Washington) unites architecture, painting and applied arts in an inseparable whole that comes closer than any other domestic interior to the 19th-century ideal of Gesamtkunstwerk, the all-encompassing work of art. Its playful exoticism, subversive humor and innate Englishness (even in Japanesque drag) make it the decorative equivalent of "The Mikado," written a decade afterward.
Sadly, Jeckyll's mental health collapsed the year he completed the Peacock Room, and he spent his remaining half decade in and out of asylums. In the first monograph on this fascinating figure, Soros and her co-author, Catherine Arbuthnott, resurrect from unwarranted obscurity a design polymath of immensely fertile imagination.
MODERNISMO: Architecture and Design in Catalonia. Essays by Borja de Riquer i Permanyer et al. Photographs by Marc Llimargas et al. (Monacelli, $75.) It's not hard to assemble a superficially striking group of images spotlighting the bizarre splendors of Modernismo, the Catalan variant of Art Nouveau that blossomed like a fabulous hothouse mutant in and around Barcelona at the turn of the 20th century. Last year several new picture books marked the sesquicentennial of the birth of Antoni Gaudi, the movement's best-known exponent, but only one of them, with a penetrating text by the late Ignasi de Sola-Morales, is outstanding. 
This more comprehensive survey of Gaudi and his wildly experimental contemporaries -- with tongue-twisting names unfamiliar even to some specialists, like Joan Hervas Arizmendi, Juli Batllevell i Arus, and Lluis Muncunill i Parellada -- is extraordinary by any standard. The art direction, regrettably uncredited, dramatically captures the extravagant eruptions of fantasy that made Modernismo the most outre of the diverse international approaches to the free style of circa 1900. 
The uncanny, hallucinatory quality of undulating roofs, etiolated turrets, writhing columns and bulging walls swarming with knobby tiles, biomorphic terra cottas and kaleidoscopic mosaics puts the crafts-enraptured Catalans who summoned up these amazing visions in a class of their own. Rather than lazily dazzling the reader, this serious though seductively disguised volume is underpinned by a veritable academy of Modernismo scholars whose thoughtful essays emphasize that Gaudi was but part of a dense network of some of the most imaginative architects ever crowded together in one small but towering city. 
McKIM, MEAD & WHITE: The Masterworks. By Samuel G. White and Elizabeth White. Photographs by Jonathan Wallen. (Rizzoli, $75.) Finicky critics might quibble about this book's hyperbolic subtitle -- not every building here deserves the lofty honorific of masterwork -- but enough impressive landmarks survive to demonstrate why a century ago McKim, Mead & White reigned as the design dream team of the American establishment. Just as the United States began to emerge as a world power, this New York-based firm supplied cities across the country with a new and flattering public image neatly conflating historical precedent, aesthetic cultivation and imperial grandeur. 
Its influence grew so pervasive that its accomplished brand of Beaux-Arts Classicism spelled disaster for several architectural individualists, mainly the infinitely more original Frank Furness and Louis Sullivan. With tragic consequences for himself, Sullivan presciently predicted that the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago, in which the partnership played a significant role, would retard the advance of innovative architecture in America for 50 years.
Graciously designed by Marcus Ratliff, this generous volume is a welcome sequel to "The Houses of McKim, Mead & White," by Samuel G. White, a New York architect and a great-grandson of Stanford White, star of that legendary troika. He and his wife and co-author, Elizabeth White, move chronologically from such shingle-style delights as Rhode Island's Newport Casino, through the Roman monumentality of Columbia University's Low Library, on to such late oddities as New York's pinnacled, high-rise Municipal Building, which seems to foretell Stalinist Classicism. With a keen sense of social history, the authors help bring alive the milieus in which McKim, Mead and White's scintillating and synthetic art flourished.
GUIDE TO NEW YORK CITY LANDMARKS: Third Edition. Text by Andrew S. Dolkart and Matthew A. Postal. (Wiley, paper, $24.95.)
NEW YORK: Architecture & Design. Edited and written by Hubertus Adam. (teNeues, $12.95.) For a city that's been building itself up and tearing itself down with alarming alacrity almost from the beginning, New York, it's heartening to know, since 1965 has put more than 1,100 structures under the legal protection of its Landmark Preservation Commission. This latest update of the indispensable official guidebook to those hardy urban survivors includes some 150 structures in all five boroughs designated during the 11 years since the first edition appeared. They range from La Casina, a snazzy little Streamlined Moderne nightclub in Jamaica, Queens, to the Gothic Revival row house on Manhattan's Avenue B where the jazz legend Charlie Parker once lived. (Louis Armstrong's equally modest house in Corona, Queens, was landmarked in 1988 and opened to visitors this fall.)
I was glad to find 240 Central Park South, an underappreciated Columbus Circle apartment building of 1939-40 by the New York modern housing experts Albert Mayer and Julian Whittlesey, designated last year. The new entries, deftly written by the architectural historian Matthew A. Postal, nicely complement the crisp text from earlier editions by the architectural historian Andrew S. Dolkart, updated by Postal.
Critics constantly complain about the dearth of good new architecture here, but the encouraging evidence provided by "New York: Architecture & Design" indicates that things are looking up. Although several of the 73 recent projects in this useful handbook are either still in the planning stage (Norman Foster's Hearst headquarters) or under construction (Yoshio Taniguchi's Museum of Modern Art expansion), there are enough completed works to keep both residents and tourists traveling around town for days.
Here as elsewhere, the museum remains the signal building type of our period. Tod Williams and Billie Tsien's superb American Folk Art Museum, which opened in 2001, takes a narrow Midtown, midblock site and alchemizes it into a soaring, inward-turning space that feels absolutely colossal. Michael Maltzan's ramp-wrapped entry hall at MoMA Queens is invigoratingly kinetic. Inexplicably absent is Annabelle Selldorf's meticulous conversion of a Beaux-Arts Fifth Avenue mansion into the gemlike Neue Galerie, which, although it is an adaptive reuse, certainly counts as first-rate contemporary architecture.
The text (in English, French, German and Spanish) is terse to the point of parody and sidesteps value judgments. Is Arquitectonica's Westin Hotel of 2002 near Times Square the ugliest thing built in Manhattan in ages, or does it pay appropriate homage to the area's honky-tonk spirit? The author, Hubertus Adam, a German architecture critic, doesn't say, but chronically opinionated New Yorkers will have no trouble appending their own pithy epithets. 
TADAO ANDO: Light and Water. (Monacelli, $65.) The self-taught Japanese master Tadao Ando, today's pre-eminent architectural minimalist, is no intellectual theorist. This stunning roundup of 35 favorite projects, selected by the architect, is unrolled as one gorgeous spread after another, and why not? Several excellent photographers, principally Mitsuo Matsuoka, prove that the camera loves Ando's work, and understandably so, for his deployment of strong geometric forms under vivid natural illumination is unsurpassed. 
Ando's acclaimed chapels and museums possess an undeniable and interchangeable spirituality that transcends functional intent, and either God or art might be reasonably worshiped in either. Not since Luis Barragan, a comparably inspired minimalist, has any designer better understood how water can be integrated into an architectural composition, and Ando exploits the paradoxical opposition of solid and liquid with great emotional impact. Matsuoka excels at conveying the sensuality of his reflecting pools, water channels and fountains, as well as the surprisingly varied effects he can achieve within a narrow range of materials -- primarily concrete, but also glass, steel and wood. At once thoroughly cosmopolitan yet at heart consummately Japanese, Ando's universally grounded architecture suggests that globalization need not equate with cultural homogenization.
BEHIND THE GATES: Life, Security, and the Pursuit of Happiness in Fortress America. By Setha Low. (Routledge, $26.) The bias toward theory that now dominates architectural discourse leaves little room for the sociological considerations once advanced by influential critics like Lewis Mumford and Jane Jacobs, especially in urban planning. 
With this intriguingly inferential investigation of the growing phenomenon of the gated community, SethaLow, a professor of anthropology and environmental psychology at the CUNY Graduate Center, might prompt her colleagues in the social sciences to fill the vacuum left by present-day architectural commentators. 
Secured housing developments are transforming suburbia; some 16 million people live in them, mainly in the Sun Belt. During eight years of ethnographic research, Low visited restricted-access enclaves around the country, interviewed residents and found that despite a concurrent drop in crime nationwide, motivations for moving to them are tellingly similar. She cites "desire for safety, security, community and 'niceness,' as well as wanting to live near people like themselves because of a fear of 'others' and of crime."
As the United States becomes increasingly multicultural and nonwhite, gated communities have the inevitable effect, Low argues, of deepening racial and class divisions. Ironically, that segregation can make those compounds' residents, particularly the young, feel more insecure outside their gates as they become less accustomed to mixing with the general population.
Low does not mince words in analyzing her troublesome findings: "The creation of gated communities (and the addition of guardhouses, walls and entrance gates to established neighborhoods) is an integral part of the building of the fortress city, a social control technique based on the so-called militarization of the city. In America it is a strategy for regulating and patrolling an urban poor comprised predominantly of Latino and black minorities living in ghettos and other deteriorating residential areas. Gating, however, is only one example of this new form of social ordering that conceals, displaces and regulates people or activities rather than eliminating them."
Apart from their more obviously exclusionary aspects, Low finds gated communities insidiously antidemocratic and antisocial because they play into the increasing privatization of all aspects of our society. Many municipal services are now provided by homeowners' associations rather than local government, removing accountability from publicly elected officials. Provocative and disturbing, this much-needed book holds up an unsparing mirror to an unsettling sign of our times.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 14, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A roundup review of the year's books on architecture in the Book Review last Sunday misstated the given name of an architectural historian who contributed to "Symphony: Frank Gehry's Walt Disney Concert Hall." She is Dana Hutt, not Diana.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Whimsical lodges, with crested domes and polychrome ceramics, at Park Guell (1900-14) in Barcelona, by Antonio Gaudi and Josep Maria Jujol i Gibert; from "Modernismo: Architecture and Design in Catalonia."; Entry of Tadao Ando's Vitra Seminar House in Weil-am-Rhein, Germany (1989-93), from "Tadao Ando: Light and Water"; photograph by Hiroshi Ueda.; A 1714 engraving of the east elevation of Hawksmoor's design for St. Alphege, Greenwich, from "Nicholas Hawksmoor: Rebuilding Ancient Wonders," by Vaughan Hart. The final version was very different. Drawing (Drawing by Chris Van Allsburg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MUSIC (79%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); HISTORY (72%); WRITERS (71%); CELEBRITIES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (90%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (90%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (90%)

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (96%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (87%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (87%) UNITED STATES (96%); SPAIN (71%); GERMANY (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



170 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 97

LENGTH: 1685 words

HEADLINE: FOOD; 
Kebabing Along

BYLINE:  By Julia Reed

 BODY:
When I went to Afghanistan in August, I was prepared -- sort of -- for the acres of crashed airplane carcasses that greeted us upon arrival at the Kabul International Airport; I was prepared for the heat and the dust and the fact that much of the place is essentially a pile of rubble. I was even prepared for the traffic (just before I left, The Wall Street Journal pointed out that there were almost 200,000 registered vehicles in the city -- and no traffic rules to speak of). What I was not prepared for was the food. It is delicious.
 My Vogue colleague Alexandra Kotur and I were there to cover the Kabul Beauty School, an enterprise that sounded, even to us, not just a little frivolous. But it turns out that beauty salons had been among the few small businesses owned and operated by women before the Taliban gained power, and during the regime, women literally risked their lives to run clandestine salons in their houses. Work was illegal -- curling hair, even with perm rods crudely carved out of wood, was often the only way the women could support their families. 
 The school, which is free, was the brainchild of a gutsy makeup artist and an activist for Afghan widows, and was financed by Vogue and a handful of American cosmetics companies. When we arrived, it had been up and running for a week and was already a huge success. There was a waiting list of more than 100, and the 20 students already enrolled, used to cutting hair with the equivalent of pruning shears, were ecstatic with their new tools and textbooks. They're also given rides to class (they'd never get there if they relied on public transportation) and a hot lunch.
The women, who were for all practical purposes under house arrest under the Taliban, look forward to lunch as an opportunity to socialize. After our first day's offering, a buranee banjan (eggplant cooked with tomatoes and onions in a delicious yogurt sauce), Alexandra and I looked forward to the meal itself. Who knew that in the middle of a dust bowl, farmers could grow scallions two feet long and tomatoes better than East Hampton's in late summer? There is not a lot of visible commerce going on, but produce stands are on almost every block. If it weren't for the exhaust, you could probably smell the bundles of mint and cilantro stacked next to the bags of chickpeas and nuts. Just outside the school, a man appeared every morning with a wagon full of kharbooza, a white-fleshed melon that is possibly the best thing I've ever tasted. (Eli Zabar or Giorgio DeLuca, take note.)
The lunches were cooked by Najia, whose husband was paralyzed in a land-mine explosion, and Mahobha, whose house around the corner provided the stove. They each asked for $40 a month and are paid twice that, plus extra for weekend picnics where the women get together with their teachers (Afghan-Americans who come for three-week stints) and bring their children. We were in town for one that featured shammi kebab, made of chopped cooked meat mixed with split peas, garlic, peppers and spices, and fried, and bowls full of the fabulous tomatoes and cucumbers. I rolled everything up with cilantro and yogurt in a huge slab of warm nan, lay back among the rosebushes the students planted on opening day and thought, briefly, that I was in heaven.
It was not something I would have predicted -- heaven on earth in Kabul -- and believe me, the great majority of scenery could not be accurately described that way. But another little piece of -- relative -- paradise can be found at the Gandamack Lodge, where bin Laden once visited one of his wives. Now it is owned by Peter Jouvenal, a BBC cameraman and an old Afghan hand, who saw an opportunity when the floods of reporters and aid workers began arriving. When I was there, an aristocratic young Brit named Jamie Peck was in charge of the place. The 20-odd guests shared rather disgusting showers, and there was a scorpion in Alexandra's room, but there was not a lot Jamie could do about either of those things. What he did do was keep the place well stocked with booze and wine and very cold beer and develop a menu that another cute Brit named Jamie (Oliver) would be proud to offer. At our first dinner, we got a chilled cucumber soup with fresh dill, roast leg of lamb and an excellent lemon tart. Another night, there was a fish cake -- made of plaice and a little rice with lemon rind, ginger, parsley and cilantro -- accompanied by a tangy chili jam. 
The sophistication of Jamie's operation was astounding. Especially since he was all of 21 with a six-week stint at a cooking school in Somerset under his belt and ambitions to go into hotel management (of real hotels in non-war-torn nations). He figured he'd get good training at the Gandamack -- and certainly more responsibility than he'd have anywhere else -- and he was right. Here he was bossing a 60-something chef named Noor, who spoke no English (Jamie's Dari is spotty at best), and who had been unemployed since the Soviets invaded in 1979. "Most people in this country have lost their skills," Jamie told me. "They don't really know what they're supposed to do, and they have too much pride to tell you that they don't understand what you're asking them. Noor's a good chef, but his nickname's Fishbowl, because he'll learn a recipe and forget it in a week."
Maybe so, but when he does remember, everybody's happy. On our last night, we had risotto cakes with a little ball of mozzarella ingeniously buried inside that melts when it's cooked. The recipe I've given is made with a basic risotto. Jamie and Noor added a pinch of saffron and bits of braised artichoke hearts to theirs (dice about six fresh artichoke hearts, saute them in a little butter and water until the liquid's gone and add them with the onion). It would be equally good with about three or four ounces of diced prosciutto. 

Buranee Banjan
4 medium eggplants (about 1 pound each)
Salt
8 tablespoons olive oil
3 medium onions, finely chopped
2 large ripe tomatoes, peeled, seeded and sliced (or 4 or 5 large plum tomatoes)
1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper or to taste
Yogurt sauce (recipe below)
Fresh mint, finely chopped or torn
Nan or lavash bread for serving.
1. Preheat broiler. Remove the stems from eggplant and cut crosswise into 1/2-inch slices. Select the 24 best slices (not the puffy ends) and discard the rest. Sprinkle slices liberally with salt, leave for 30 minutes, then dry well.
2. Brush slices with 2 tablespoons of olive oil and arrange on cookie sheets. Broil until lightly browned, 2 to 3 minutes per side. (Don't cook the slices completely.)
3. In a deep 12-inch skillet, over medium heat, saute the onions in 6 tablespoons of olive oil for 15 minutes, until reddish brown and juicy but not crisp. Remove to a plate with a slotted spoon.
4. Place 8 rounds of eggplant into the same skillet. Top with half of the chopped onion and tomato slices. Mix 3/4 teaspoon salt and the cayenne in a cup; sprinkle 1/3 over the tomatoes. Repeat with another layer of eggplant and the remaining onions and tomatoes. Sprinkle with half the remaining cayenne mixture. Place an eggplant slice on top of each stack and sprinkle with remaining cayenne. Add 1/4 cup water and cover skillet tightly. Simmer about 30 minutes.
5. To serve: Spread half the yogurt sauce onto the bottom of a serving dish. Top with the vegetables, lifting stacks carefully. Top with the remainder of the yogurt, and drizzle with pan juices. Sprinkle with mint. Serve immediately, with nan or lavash.
Yield: 8 servings.

Yogurt Sauce
2 cups plain whole milk yogurt
2 garlic cloves, peeled and crushed or pushed through a garlic press
Pinch of salt.
Place yogurt in cheesecloth or a muslin-lined strainer and drain over a bowl for 1 hour. Mix with garlic and salt to taste.
Yield: 2 cups.

Risotto Cakes
With Mozzarella
5 cups lightly salted beef or chicken broth
7 tablespoons butter
10 tablespoons olive oil
1 medium onion, finely chopped
2 cups Arborio rice
1/2 cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese plus more for serving
1/2 pound fresh mozzarella
2 to 3 eggs
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 1/2 cups fine dried bread crumbs
1/4 teaspoon salt
Homemade tomato sauce, for serving
Fresh marjoram sprigs for garnish.
1. Bring broth to a slow simmer. Put 1 tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons olive oil and the onion in a heavy saucepan over medium high heat. Stir until onion becomes translucent, about 7 minutes. Add rice and stir to coat well. Add 1/2 cup of the broth, stirring constantly, until almost all the liquid is absorbed. Repeat process, stirring constantly, and adjust heat so mixture simmers but rice does not scorch. After about 20 minutes, nearly all of the stock should be absorbed. Rice should be creamy but firm to the bite. Stir in Parmesan and 2 tablespoons butter.
2. Remove from heat, spread risotto onto a large plate and place in refrigerator for 1/2 hour until firm and chilled. Using a spoon or a melon scooper, make 15 small half balls of the mozzarella. Pack risotto into 1/3-cup measure and invert onto the palm of your hand. Place a half ball of mozzarella in center and press risotto around the ball to make a patty about 2 1/2 inches in diameter and 3/4 inch thick. Make sure risotto covers the cheese. Repeat until you have 15 rice cakes.
3. Place 2 eggs and 2 tablespoons water in a bowl and beat with a fork. Spread flour and bread crumbs on separate plates. Mix salt into bread crumbs. Coat each cake lightly with flour, dip in egg mixture, shake off excess and coat evenly with bread crumbs. (If needed, beat remaining egg with 1 tablespoon water.)
4. Preheat oven to 200 degrees. Line a baking sheet with paper towels. In a large skillet over medium-high heat, melt 2 tablespoons butter in 4 tablespoons oil. When butter stops bubbling, fry the first batch of cakes until golden brown and crispy, about two minutes per side. Place on baking sheet and put in the oven. Drain off oil and wipe out pan with paper towels. Fry the rest of the cakes in remaining oil and butter.
5. To serve: Place two cakes on each plate. Sprinkle with Parmesan and spoon tomato sauce around them. Garnish with marjoram.
Yield: 7 servings (15 cakes).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Buranee banjan, with eggplant, tomatoes and yogurt, is one of Kabul's best surprises. (Photograph by Peter Lippmann; food and prop stylist: Valerie Lhomme. plate: christiane perrochon, italy.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (85%); TALIBAN (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (76%); COSMETOLOGY & BARBER SCHOOLS (74%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); COSMETICS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (69%); TEXTBOOKS (69%); TOILETRIES MFG (65%); HOUSE ARREST (50%) Cooking and Cookbooks; Recipes

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

PERSON: Julia Reed

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



171 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property; 
Reckson Is Narrowing Its Focus to Office Buildings

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
THE RECKSON ASSOCIATES REALTY CORPORATION, a real estate investment trust traded on the New York Stock Exchange, grew out of a family company that prospered developing industrial and office properties on Long Island. Since going public in 1995, Reckson has acquired companies, buildings and land in the entire tristate area and has grown to a company whose publicly traded securities are worth more than $3 billion.
 Now, most members of the Rechler family have cut their ties to Reckson and returned to Long Island as owners and managers of a portfolio of 95 industrial properties containing 5.9 million square feet of space. Scott Rechler, who has emerged as the sole chief executive of Reckson, said the separation from the family was part of a package of measures intended to improve the corporate governance of the company and to prepare for continued growth as an owner of office buildings in the metropolitan area. 
 In addition, he said, the industrial properties are not well understood by the investment community. The price of Reckson shares has risen to $24 from about $18 in the last nine months, but whether the decision to divest the industrial property is responsible is debatable since other New York REIT's have also been rising. 
"This was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to transform the company," said Mr. Rechler, who added that the proceeds of the sale of the industrial properties would be reinvested in office buildings with greater prospects for income growth. "We want to trade out of assets with slow or negative growth and into those with positive growth. We are becoming an office company."
Under the terms of the deal, which closed in November, Donald Rechler and his son Mitchell and Roger Rechler and his son Gregg have formed Rechler Equity Partners and have paid $315 million for the industrial portfolio that was begun by Roger and Donald's late father, William Rechler, in 1961.
Donald Rechler, formerly co-chief executive of Reckson and Scott's uncle, will remain with the company as chairman but will have no executive responsibilities. Another Rechler, Todd, who is Scott's younger brother, will remain with Reckson as manager of its New Jersey operations.
When the company first went public, Scott Rechler said, it combined the characteristics of a family company and a publicly owned one, as have many REIT's that emerged from privately owned real estate development companies. But as Reckson grew, the family presence in top management prevented the advance of talented outsiders. And the family's interests and that of outside shareholders have diverged as well, Scott Rechler said.
For example, the sale of a property that made sense for the corporation could trigger unwanted tax bills for family members who owned it before the establishment of the public company.
WITH the changes, only two Rechlers, Donald and Scott, remain on the board, which is now dominated by six outsiders. In addition, antitakeover provisions such as staggered terms for directors have been eliminated to emphasize the rights of shareholders.
The company has also opted out of a New York State law intended to prevent takeovers. Antitakeover provisions are generally viewed as measures intended to protect management over the interests of shareholders, who could get a higher price for their stock if an acquirer successfully bid for the company.
In addition, only Scott Rechler remains in the top management ranks of the company. Previously, Roger Rechler was executive vice president for development, Mitchell Rechler was the chief administrative officer and Gregg Rechler was the chief operating officer of the company.
"In the past, we could balance the family and a public company, but you cannot do both today," Scott Rechler said. "We have to play to the highest standards of corporate governance."
Splitting off the Long Island industrial portfolio had both tactical and strategic advantages, Scott Rechler said. Strategically, income from industrial property on Long Island is likely to increase more slowly than income from the office buildings in Manhattan and central business districts in the suburbs. Tactically, it was a self-contained unit with its own network of business contacts and operations.
Setting the price for a sale from a public company to members of the founding family can be tricky, Scott Rechler said. He said the process was managed by an outside director, Peter Quick, who is president of the American Stock Exchange, based on reports fromassessors. Nevertheless, lawsuits have been filed by some investors protesting the transaction.
THE funds from the sale have been re-deployed into Reckson's latest acquisition, the 42-story, million-square-foot building at 1185 Avenue of the Americas, between 46th and 47th Streets, which was bought for $321 million.
The exchange is paying off from the beginning, Scott Rechler said. The expected income next year from the Long Island properties is $21.8 million, while the income from the Manhattan building is $23 million.
But while the rents for the Long Island buildings are estimated to be 15 percent above the current market, the rents at 1185 Avenue of the Americas are 58 percent below the current market.
Since 40 percent of the leases are expiring over the next eight years, it is expected that the net operating income of the building could be increased by 45 percent by 2011, Mr. Rechler said. That would bring the income from the building to $35.2 million by that time.
Meanwhile, since 60 percent of the leases do not expire until after 2011, the property is stable financially, he said.
Managing skyscraper office towers in Manhattan and other business districts is more lucrative and less administratively messy than groups of smaller buildings in the suburbs, he said. The managers of the Long Island industrial properties have to deal with more than 200 tenants. At 1185 Avenue of the Americas, just seven tenants account for 71 percent of the space. In addition, he indicated that the credit standings were generally higher for the tenants in the Manhattan building than for those in Long Island. 
The sale of the Long Island properties and the purchase of 1185 Avenue of the Americas have greatly increased the importance of the Manhattan market, which Reckson entered when it bought the Tower Realty Trust's 2.3-million-square-foot portfolio in 1998, to the company's income.
Before the sale, Long Island was the largest contributor to earnings with 32 percent, compared with 31 percent for Manhattan and lesser amounts for the Westchester-Connecticut portfolio and New Jersey. The sale shrunk the Long Island contribution to 24 percent while increasing the Manhattan share to 37 percent. The investment in 1185 Avenue of the Americas has further raised the relative contribution of Manhattan to 42 percent.
Owning office skyscrapers in New York City is the equivalent of having whole portfolios of smaller buildings in the suburbs, Mr. Rechler said. One of the company's Manhattan properties is the 1.4-million-square-foot building at 919 Third Avenue at 55th Street. "The income from 919 is greater than that of the entire company when we went public," Mr. Rechler said.
Mr. Rechler said the company would continue to invest in existing buildings in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut as opportunities arose and would hold on to several hundred acres of land until the economic climate was suitable for development, which he estimated would not be until 2006.
"We know how to create value in office buildings," Mr. Rechler said. "We did not lose any of that capability in the sale."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott Rechler near Robert Indiana's LOVE sculpture outside Reckson's offices on Avenue of the Americas. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (50%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: SL GREEN REALTY CORP (93%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Reckson Associates Realty Corp

TICKER: SLG (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (93%) SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS; 

PERSON: John Holusha; Rechler Family; Scott Rechler

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



172 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2663 words

HEADLINE: In Rockaways, a Tide Is Coming In 

BYLINE:  By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
YOU can't buy a kewpie doll or a Tuckee Cup on the boardwalk in the Rockaways any more. The arcades are long gone.
 But Michael and Donna Mark bought a two-family house behind a white picket fence three blocks from the ocean on Beach 60th Street for $246,000 two years ago. And in September, the house, in the Arverne section, was reappraised at $310,000 -- a 26 percent increase in value. 
 "We thought the price was good because we saw a lot of potential in the area," said Mr. Mark, 38, an investigator for the New York State Insurance Department. "Now, it's exciting to see all the development around us. And the newest homes are going for $400,000." 
Things are looking up along the 11-mile sand spit on the south shore of Queens that used to be known as "the poor man's Riviera" -- particularly at its midriff, where vast swaths of land once crammed with summer bungalows have lain desolate for decades, orphans of urban nonrenewal.
Howard Schwach has watched the tides turn.
A native son, Mr. Schwach, 64, is managing editor of the peninsula's 110-year-old weekly newspaper, The Wave. He waxes nostalgic about his adolescent adventures along the boardwalk. "We joke that you're an old-time Rockaway resident if you remember the Tuckee Cup," Mr. Schwach said, explaining that it was chow mein in a cup made of pressed noodles that cost $1.25 back in the 50's. "So you would eat the stuff out of it with a wooden fork they gave you, and then when you were finished you would eat the cup."
Back then, Mr. Schwach continued: "The boardwalk was lined with stores and penny arcades, two movie theaters. Sometimes in the summer you slept on the beach; there was no air-conditioning. And it was great to be a teenage boy because thousands of teenage girls would flock to the Rockaways; summer romances were the thing."
Then, in the early 60's -- some say particularly because of the coming of the jet age and fast flights to tropical climes -- the Rockaway economy took a turn toward the terrible. The city, in what one local official termed one of its "urban renewal binges," tore down thousands of bungalows, leaving wide tracts vacant or dotting them with low-income housing projects.
"For 35 years we've been sitting here waiting for something to happen," Mr. Schwach said, "and now it is."
Using the two-family home as a sort of standard model (with one unit potentially providing rental income), builders have speckled the peninsula with hundreds of new houses over the last five years -- three or four scattered among tattered though tenacious bungalows on this street or that; five square blocks lined with three-story town houses; acres blanketed by a hundred semiattached homes here, two dozen detached there, nearer to the surf.
To be sure, there are those concerned that the seaside way of summer life is facing extinction, and that there is insufficient infrastructure -- roads, sewers and schools -- to support all the new development on the peninsula. Lots of new houses have certainly been built.
And they've sold.
In 1999, the Briarwood Organization took a chance by building 40 two-family homes between Beach 59th and 61st Streets for a project called Waters Edge -- a sliver from the long-dormant, rubble-strewn, 308-acre Arverne Urban Renewal Area that dominates the Rockaways' central corridor.
Despite buying the city-owned land through the Department of Housing Preservation and Development at only $1,000 for each promised housing unit, and agreeing to pass along the land-cost savings to new homeowners, said Briarwood's president, Vincent Riso, "It took us awhile to convince people to purchase."
"We were the first new construction in Arverne in 30 years," Mr. Riso said. "But once we started our sales program, we found a number of lovely families who bought and are now our best salespeople. Our sales staff tells buyers, 'Don't feel shy, just go down the street and ring doorbells.' "
All of the original 40 homes, except the demonstration model, are now occupied; sold at an average price of $228,000. And in the second phase of the project, 65 more two-family houses are to be built starting in February.
"We found Arverne to have a slow kindling point," Mr. Riso said. "But now that we've been there awhile, we have no concern that we won't sell out these 65 new homes quickly" -- at about $400,000, with no subsidy.

The First Spark
Cookie-Cutter Homes At $170,000 Each
If Waters Edge was the kindling point for real renewal in Arverne on the ocean side of the Rockaways, then the spark for the entire peninsula may have been lit a decade ago in Sommerville -- a stub of land poking toward the tiny islands and sand hassocks, splayed with straw-gold stretches of marsh grass, that dot Jamaica Bay to the north. That, at least, is the contention of Vincent Castellano, the housing chairman for Community Board 14.
"There are three blocks around 63rd Street that, to me, started the building boom in the Rockaways about 10 years ago," Mr. Castellano said. A fledgling developer, Malcolm Smith, built 60 homes on that long-vacant land.
"Everybody thought he was crazy," Mr. Castellano said. "The price at the time was $170,000 for these cookie-cutter homes. But they sold."
And while there was criticism of the project's look-alike architecture back then, just as the Levittown box soon blossomed with add-ons and build-ups, much of Sommerville has been customized over the years. "That was the beginning, the first time a private developer put his money on the barrel," Mr. Castellano said. "And that gave confidence to other developers." In 2000, Mr. Smith, the developer, was elected to the State Senate.
For nearly a century, Rockaways' Playland -- with its water slide, Olympic-sized swimming pool and amusement-studded midway -- drew thousands of fun seekers to its site between Beach 97th and 98th Streets, from Rockaway Beach Boulevard to the boardwalk. In 1938, a 300-foot-long, 70-foot-high wooden roller coaster -- later dubbed the Atom Smasher -- first plunged riders toward that faint line between thrill and terror.
By the late 80's, the Atom Smasher, along with the rest of Playland, squeezed by dwindling attendance and skyrocketing insurance costs, had been reduced to rubble -- little but its foundation to lie forlorn for nearly a decade.
Now, beside and to the south of the elevated A-line train stop that still bears a Playland station sign, 110 two-family homes have been built and sold by Rockaway Shore L.L.C. And 30 more are under construction.
"Our first homes were priced around $250,000," said Jonathan Miller, a partner in the company, pointing out that several parcels outside of the Playland site have been incorporated into the development. "Today, three years later, they sell for around $450,000," without any subsidy.
"It's still affordable," Mr. Miller continued, "because these are two-families. So when the buyer takes into consideration today's interest rates and the rental income, the house becomes affordable."
The company is also building 92 two- and three-bedroom apartments in three-story buildings off the southeast corner of Cross Bay Parkway and Rockaway Beach Boulevard. Rents there will range from $1,300 to $1,500 a month, with tenants required to have incomes between $44,600 and $157,000.
Other developers and city officials had high-rise designs for the Playland property and the vast Arverne site during the fallow years. "They made a lot of promises to the residents of the Rockaways," Mr. Miller said, "but none were fulfilled."
These days, to a greater degree, commitments are being kept.
Improvements are tangible at the six public housing projects with 4,000 apartments that dot the eastern stretch of the peninsula. For years, local residents and officials have complained that the Rockaways have borne an unfair share of the city's homeless and low-income burden.
"The housing projects have become less of a sore point," said Jonathan Gaska, the district manager of Community Board 14. "Over the last five years, the housing authority and the police, in partnership with the tenants, have really changed things for the better as far as crime. They are doing more security in the buildings and on the grounds."
At the Arverne and Edgemere Houses, particularly, Mr. Gaska said, "The housing authority has spent a significant amount of money renovating all the apartments, thousands of units."
And in the Edgemere Urban Renewal Area, on the bay side of the A-train line from Beach 32nd to 54th Streets, 400 two-family houses are being built, part of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development's commitment to promote homeownership in less affluent neighborhoods. "This is in cooperation with the New York City Housing Partnership program for families with incomes as low as $35,000, and up to $75,000," Mr. Gaska said. "They're done with the first phase, 60 houses, in the $300,000 range."
The Rockaways may even become a bit artsy, one artist hopes.
For two and a half years, Richard Kostelanetz, 63, a media artist and writer who currently lives in Manhattan's SoHo district, hasbeen building what he calls, with mordant humor, his "terminal residence" at Kohlrider Square in the Rockaways, a two-block-long park on the bay side of the elevated line at 67th Street.
"I'm building a 4,000-square-foot home and studio; pretty eccentric looking," he said, "cinder block, a few windows high up, skylights, tall ceilings."
Mr. Kostelanetz is the author of "SoHo: The Rise and Fall of an Artists' Colony" (2003, Routledge), an account of the effects of gentrification in that downtown Manhattan neighborhood. He is currently writing "The Fall and Rise of the Rockaways" (no publisher signed yet).
"I'm a New Yorker, so I can't leave New York," he said. "I'm also a beach boy; I wanted to be near the ocean." A lesser, but added, pleasure is the last long leg of the A line "over Jamaica Bay, the most beautiful subway ride in the city."
In the short time that Mr. Kostelanetz has been working on his Rockaway home, he said: "All the empty lots -- and there were many of them in my neighborhood -- were snapped up. There's six two-family buildings on my block that have gone up in the last two years."

An Array of Projects
From Mansions To Town Houses
From the east to the west ends of the peninsula, lots of lots have been snapped up. In Far Rockaway, near the Nassau County border, four-story, Spanish revival-style mansions have risen where suburban ranches once stood. "They've started to call it West Lawrence," said Mr. Castellano, the housing chairman for the community board -- a covetous reference to one of Nassau's affluent Five Towns, just across the city line. 
Nearby, in Bayswater and Edgemere, the Leewood Real Estate Group and the Housing Partnership are building Ocean Pointe, a development of 100 town houses for families with incomes ranging from $52,000 to $79,000. The homes will sell for between $275,000 and $289,000. But 79 are eligible for approximately $55,000 in land-cost and cash subsidies through H.P.D. and the New York State Affordable Housing Corporation, a subsidiary of the state Housing Finance Agency.
In Neponsit, one of the westernmost communities on the peninsula -- within a harrier hawk's take-off flight path from the dunes at Gateway National Recreation Area -- opulent new homes with bay windows and balconies yawning toward the ocean have nestled among their long-established neighbors.
Few, if any, Rockaway residents have a better feel for the place than Mr. Castellano, who lives in a house he built to replace the bungalow in Breezy Point, at the western end, that his aunt bought for $4,000 in the mid-50's. It is only 10 feet from an unconverted bungalow, in a row of similarly spaced residences on a narrow path to the beach.
"If you have a fight with your wife, the next morning all the neighbors vote," he said.
"When you look at it lengthwise," Mr. Castellano said of the entire peninsula, "there's a different neighborhood every 10 blocks. And it's only a slight exaggeration to say that they each have their own name, their own political club, civic association, agenda, income category and ethnic mix. And they are all very jealous of their little fiefdoms."
"If you want to make enemies quickly," he said, "go into one neighborhood and refer to it by the name of the next neighborhood. You can't go to Neponsit and refer to it as Belle Harbor -- and no, there's no 'u' in harbor, not yet anyway."
The community board, Mr. Castellano said, has "seen situations where, if one neighborhood is getting some kind of municipal improvement, the adjoining neighborhood will object unless they get something, too."
Yet, if there is anything that, perhaps, most Rockaway residents might agree upon -- though there are some involved in long legal struggles to insure that not all the bungalows fall -- it is that something hopeful is happening in the 308-acre Arverne wasteland.
For nearly four decades, grand plans were offered for the 52-block stretch from Beach 32nd to 84th Streets, between Rockaway Beach Boulevard and the boardwalk. They fell through.
In the late 80's, Forest City Ratner proposed construction of a phalanx of mid- and high-rise condominium and rental apartment buildings on the site. But, with the collapse of the real estate market in the early 90's, that plan went by the boards. 
Then, in the late 90's, a division of the Reichmann family real estate conglomerate in Canada planned to build -- for more than $1 billion -- an enclosed amusement area on the Arverne site, to be called Destination Technodome, with rides, movie theaters, an indoor ski slope and a hotel.
But as Mr. Gaska, Community Board 14's district manager, pointed out, the developer and the community "needed a commitment from the city and the state for infrastructure work, anywhere from $250 million to almost $1 billion for sewers, roadways, another exit off the Belt Parkway." That commitment never came.

Arverne by the Sea
Two-Family Homes In the Wasteland
Now, far more than a commitment has been made for Arverne by the Sea -- a multifaceted development already rising on the western 117 acres of the urban renewal area. Most of the initial 32 two-family homes -- models for what is to come -- have been built on a three-acre site between Beach 73rd and 74th Streets. Those homes, in clusters of up to six in a row, will range in price from $395,000 to $495,000.
On Nov. 19, the City Council gave final approval to the land-use plan for the rest of Arverne by the Sea. "We'll be building an additional 650 two-family homes and another 1,000 units in midrise buildings, five to 11 stories," said Peter Florey, executive vice president of the Benjamin Development Company, which, in partnership with the Beechwood Organization, is the city-designated developer for the site.
Most of the midrise buildings will be located along a residential/retail corridor running from the Beach 68th Street train station to the boardwalk. "It will be known as Ocean Way, one of the new streets," Mr. Florey said. "The buildings will be a combination of market-rate rentals and condos."
Beechwood-Benjamin bought the land from the city for $8.6 million. "We are paying for all infrastructure costs," Mr. Florey said, "including all roads, storm and sanitary sewers. And we are building a 30,000-square-foot community center and an 800-seat elementary school on about three acres at Beach 67th Street." He estimated the infrastructure costs at $80 million. 
The Department of Housing Preservation and Development projects that by 2009, there will be 2,300 housing units at Arverne by the Sea, and a total of 4,000 for the entire urban renewal site; an Arverne Central Park (planned as a nature park and dune preserve) and up to 500,000 square feet of commercial and retail space on the eastern portion of the site.
Seeming resolutely proud of it all, Mr. Gaska, of the community board, said: "There are those who doubted this day would ever come. They said nothing would ever get built. We've proved them wrong."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The initial 32 two-family homes have been built at Arverne by the Sea on part of the long-dormant 308-acre Arverne Urban Renewal Area.; Ocean Avenue, a part of Breezy Point where no cars are allowed. (Photographs by Steve Hart for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Beach 148th Street in Neponsit, an area of expensive homes near part of the Gateway National Recreation Area, with Mitchell-Lama towers in the neighboring community of Seaside in the distance. (Photo by Steve Hart for The New York Times); Vincent Castellano's new home adjoins an old bungalow.; New construction, at left, on Beach 148th Street in Neponsit.; Mitchell-Lama apartments on ocean at Beach 108th Street.; New Beach 98th Street homes, next to Playland station.; On urban renewal area's edge, new homes at Beach 31st Street.; At Beach 25th Street, new homes overshadow old bungalows. (Photographs by Steve Hart for The New York Times)(pg. 6) Map of Queens highlighting: Swimming pool at Rockaways' Playland was built in 1928.Site of Rockaways' PlaylandRockaway Shore -- 110 two-family homes are completed, 30 are under constructionArverne by the Sea -- 32 two-family homes are completed, 650 more planned; 1,000 apartments planned in 5 to 11-story buildings; community center and elementary school.Waters Edge -- 40 two-family homes are completed, 65 more planned.Arverne Urban Renewal AreaEdgemere Urban Renewal Area -- 60 two-family homes are completed, 340 more planned. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); BEACHES (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (74%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (55%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (55%) Housing

ORGANIZATION: Housing Preservation and Development Department (NYC)

PERSON: Dennis Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Arverne (NYC); New York City; Rockaway Peninsula (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



173 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1637 words

HEADLINE: Miami Puts On an Arty Party 

BYLINE:  By GUY TREBAY

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH 

 BODY:
MIAMI BEACH is the vampire city of American culture, perennially thirsting for infusions of fresh sustenance. It is not that the town suffers for a lack of cultural lifeblood so much as from a nagging local perception that everything of vital importance has to be hauled in. 
 Enthusiasts, therefore, were not hard to find when the directors of a significant annual contemporaryart fair in Basel, Switzerland, announced their ambitious plans to set up shop here in 2001. That first fair, Art Basel/Miami Beach, postponed after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, eventually opened last December, attracting broad media attention and more than 30,000 visitors. Last week the second edition of Art Basel/Miami Beach blew into town with the arrival of 175 international galleries at the Miami Beach Convention Center, followed by a giddy and nearly relentless round of parties, openings, video installations, open houses, cross-platform promotions, all trailed by the growing sense that Miami is now bidding to become an art capital in its own right. 
 It was already well known in cultural circles that a number of the world's most aggressive contemporary collectors lived quietly within 10 miles of the human silicone parade floats and steroid gargoyles of South Beach. 
Some of those collectors had even begun to make their phenomenal holdings available to public view. But so far that had not been enough to establish the city definitively on the global art map. "Miami was a cultural backwater," said Donald Rubell, a gynecologist who, in collaboration with his wife, Mera, a real estate developer, has built one of the country's most formidable collections of contemporary art, which they house here. "I used to have to leave Miami for New York to keep my mind intact." 
Not long ago, the Rubells sold their Manhattan town house and moved to Miami full time to be nearer their collection of works by Damien Hirst, Paul McCarthy, Charles Ray, Maurizio Cattelan and Inka Essenhigh. Hundreds of works by these and other blue-chip performers in the current art market are displayed at a 45,000-square-foot warehouse in the run-down Wynwood section, in a building once used by the Drug Enforcement Administration as a depot for confiscated goods. "Miami is not," Mr. Rubell said, "just bikinis and muscles anymore."
It is, for the weeklong run of Miami Basel, Prada suits and Kelly bags from Hermes, standard-issue items in the art-world uniform. It is Rolex watches, although never the gold timepieces favored by Latin American plutocrats or "Miami Vice" gangsters; an ostentatiously modest Rolex called the Air King is the Timex of the art elite.
It is an Art Loves Music party given by Lenny Kravitz at the Shore Club; an Art Loves Film presentation at Vizcaya with the film director Kathryn Bigelow as host; an Art Loves Ali party given by the publisher Benedikt Taschen to celebrate "GOAT," a $1,000 limited-edition book about Muhammad Ali by Jeff Koons; an Art Positions show of new artists and galleries set in a park by the ocean; and an art rock celebration of the same artists and galleries, valiantly performed in gale-force winds by Chicks on Speed.
It is dinner cooked by Eric Ripert, the chef at Le Bernardin, flown in by the hotelier Andre Balazs for a gathering in the penthouse of his partly renovated Raleigh hotel. At that meal for 100 or so of Mr. Balazs's newest intimates, the favored chairs were warmed not by the usual models and stylists but a medley of art-world insiders -- Evelyn Lauder crammed next to Donald Judd's daughter, Rainer; Kenny Scharf alongside the light-installation tyro Leo Villareal. 
It was the V.I.P. collectors and private consultants crowding the doors to the convention center Wednesday at noon, for a first crack at the dealers' wares, as frantic for the start gun as contestants on Supermarket Sweep. And when the doors opened, the race was on for the best merchandise, with more than a few people making a beeline for Barbara Gladstone's booth, where the immediate focus of attention was an open cube by Sol LeWitt. 
"The condition is perfect, and I just got it," explained Ms. Gladstone, one of the country's pre-eminent dealers of contemporary art. Fifteen minutes into the preview, the $175,000 sculpture was gone. 
"Everything's gone," remarked a shocked Mary Hoeveler, the managing director of Citigroup's elite art advisory service, at 1 p.m., still an hour before the fair opened officially to the public. And while Ms. Hoeveler may have exaggerated, a $15,000 suite of small drawings by the young artist Magnus von Plessen had already been spoken for, as had Do-Ho Suh's $45,000 soft mesh sculpture of a bathroom at the Lehmann Maupin exhibit and a $750,000 Ed Ruscha picture titled "Trade School" at Larry Gagosian's booth. 
"I got a call from a friend who was at the sales," Ms. Hoeveler said of the recent contemporary art auctions in New York. "And he said, 'It's over!' " Ms. Hoeveler's friend, she went on to explain, was referring to the recession. Whether or not that is so, there was no arguing with a sense at Miami Basel that contagious optimism had taken hold about the economy, at least among people of a certain echelon.
"They're coming in shifts," one dealer remarked, as New Yorkers like Evelyn and Leonard Lauder, who is chairman of the Estee Lauder Companies, were followed by Mark Booth, the European chairman of NetJets, Warren Buffet's fleet of time-share aircraft, and then by Mike Ovitz, and then by Beth Rudin deWoody, the real estate heiress, and then by a posse of locals like Craig Robins, a real estate developer, and Carlos de la Cruz, the Key Biscayne collector who is the chairman of the food giant Eagle Brands. 
"We can't judge the fair in terms of sales figures; you'd have to ask the galleries for that," said Samuel Keller, Art Basel's 37-year-old director, who with his trademark slim suits and gleaming skull, has the sleekly packaged aura of luxury goods himself. "But more than 500 galleries applied to come this year, and that is a good sign." 
As the director of the prestigious Art Basel fair, Mr. Keller was charged with grafting his idea of high culture onto Miami, a city better known for designer drugs and skate rats than cultural heft. Mr. Keller did so by luring to South Florida an assortment of dealers representing an international market elite, including galleries from Europe, Asia, Latin America and Africa as well as the United States. 
"Yes, Miami was a risky choice, and we could have done it somewhere else," said Mr. Keller on Friday, taking a brief pause from an assembly-line schedule of Champagne brunches, lunches on yachts, cocktail receptions and lavish private dinners at the gated island homes of South Florida's abundant plutocrats. "Here there is a huge potential, economically but also culturally," said Mr. Keller, adding that the city is "the gateway to Latin America, a melting pot of minorities from European to Jewish to gay."
Ella Fontanals Cisneros, a Venezuelan philanthropist, used the occasion of the fair to inaugurate a personally financed nonprofit museum, MAC (Miami Art Central) with a show titled "10 Floridians." "Miami has changed a lot because of Art Basel," Ms. Cisneros said. Part of that involves a newly found awareness of the depth of holdings across cultural lines. 
Several of the town's important collectors are Hispanic, Ms. Cisneros and the de la Cruzes among them. Simply by putting their holdings on view, as they did last week, these collectors flouted misconceptions about the Hispanic market for art. "Latin Americans were admittedly a little slow in understanding contemporary art," said Ms. Cisneros, although one might argue that it was the rest of the art world that acted like provincials in failing to note an aesthetic burgeoning in the Southern Hemisphere. That all changed when artists like the Brazilian Vic Muniz and Guillermo Kuitca registered on the scene, and with the arrival of collectors like Eugenio Lopez, the omnivorous Mexican fruit juice heir, who was the largest single buyer at last year's Art Basel/Miami Beach. "We got into a niche," Ms. Cisneros said. 
Although niche walls may not have crumbled during Miami Basel, the city has rarely looked so much like a chartered outpost of the Organization of American States. At the official opening-night party held poolside at the Raleigh, DJ LeSpam and the Spam All Stars played their signature funk-jazz mix as the seasoned art dealer Irving Blum expatiated to an audience of chic Brazilians. "There's so much going on," Mr. Blum said. "Foundations everywhere you look. I'm thinking of doing a foundation here myself." Wind whipped the flames on the tiki torches as well-heeled Venezuelans compared the kind of itineraries that define membership in a global elite. "I was just in Nicaragua for a wedding," a man remarked to a friend. "Then I was in New York for a couple of days and then in Arizona for Thanksgiving, and then after the fair I'm going to Argentina until Christmas." 
Sipping Orange Crush cocktails (Smirnoff, pineapple and cranberry juice, not an orange in sight) clumps of expensively clad strangers stood serenely and ignored the waitresses circulating with trays of free Zino cigars. Oblivious to the wafer moon hung in a painting-on-velvet sky, they did as collectors always do when they gather. They compared. They provoked. They preened. 
"Can you expose it all?" a guest was heard to ask a man whose collection, formed in just four years, is so rich in images by art stars like Andreas Gursky, Cindy Sherman, Jeff Wall, Rineke Dijkstra, Thomas Ruff and Thomas Struth that its cumulative value could probably help underwrite the International Monetary Fund. 
"Oh, no," shot back the collector. "I have over 2,000 prints. We keep them in a room with rolling racks and just pull out a few."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A NEW PERSPECTIVE -- Art patrons at Art Basel/Miami Beach are seen through pompons attached to a window in "Pome Kit" by Will Pappenheimer. Below, Rainer Judd and Marc Glimcher at a dinner at the Raleigh hotel; bottom, Andre Balazs, at center, Evelyn Lauder and Kenny Scharf at the Raleigh. (Photos by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images, above; Kelly Lamb for The New York Times, below)(pg. 1); NO SUNBLOCK REQUIRED -- Top, an installation by Deitch Project last week at Art Basel/Miami Beach, a four-day event that attracted exhibits from 175 galleries to the Miami Beach Convention Center and inspired many related events and parties. Above, a guest in drag at a Visionaire party. Center, Donald and Mera Rubell dancing at Carlos de la Cruz's party. Bottom, from left, the artists Terence Koh and Eli Sudbeck with Anna Sew Hoy. (Photographs by Kelly Lamb for The New York Times); (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); ART COLLECTING (75%); STEROIDS (71%); TERRORISM (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); TRADE SHOWS (69%); PARADES & MARCHES (66%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (64%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (50%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (50%) Art; Trade Shows and Fairs; Art Basel Miami Beach (Art Show)

PERSON: Guy Trebay

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (99%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); SWITZERLAND (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Miami (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



174 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1575 words

HEADLINE: AT LUNCH WITH: Rabbi Benjamin Blech; 
Making a Fortune, Losing It and Moving On

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
YOU'VE heard this all before, maybe even lived it: Man buys Internet stock. Stock soars. Man buys many more shares. Man becomes a paper multimillionaire, looks in the mirror, sees an infallible genius smiling back. A year later, man is wiped out, grappling with debt and deep depression, and now he sees an idiot every time he shaves. 
 It was a tale oft told after the Nasdaq implosion of 2000 wreaked its equal opportunity havoc on geniuses and imbeciles alike. Still, it wasn't supposed to be told by 10th-generation Orthodox Jewish Torah scholars, who almost by definition are supposed to put material losses far below spiritual gains on the ladder of emotional importance. 
 "My wife would ask why I called my broker 20 times a day, and I'd say, 'I need to know what I'm worth,"' Rabbi Benjamin Blech, the protagonist in this version of the riches-to-rags tale, said during a recent soul-baring lunch at Le Marais, a kosher steak house in Midtown Manhattan. "Well, even a rabbi can confuse self-worth with net worth." 
 Small wonder. In a few short years, Rabbi Blech, 70, turned a relatively small nest egg of around $50,000 into $7 million and then into nothing -- ashes to ashes, dust to dust, in the blink of a financial eye. The trusts he was setting up for Yeshiva University and for his four children and nine grandchildren were all gone. O.K., he hadn't put the house in danger, his pensions were intact, he still had a professor's salary from Yeshiva University, "and if I needed money I could always preside over another funeral," he said. But his ego was shattered and he was embarrassed to look his wife in the eye. 
 "Don't anyone tell me that money means nothing -- it means a lot," he said. "And the pain of losing it exceeds by 10 times the joys of making it."
 It took him the better part of a year to claw his way out of the black hole of depression that had engulfed him -- and to this day, he is loath to utter the name of the stock that did him in, calling it simply his "Titanic." But finally, poorer in money but richer in wisdom, Rabbi Blech went back to doing what a rabbi is supposed to do best: guide his flock through spiritual travails. And, since he no longer has a congregation -- he retired 10 years ago from Young Israel of Oceanside on Long Island -- the best way to do that seemed to be to write a book. 
 The result, "Taking Stock: A Spiritual Guide to Rising Above Life's Financial Ups and Downs" (Amacom), which was published in October, is chock-full of anecdotes and parables and quotes -- some autobiographical, some biblical, some literary -- that together form a blueprint for getting through the stages of grief. 
 With the book, Rabbi Blech is walking a minefield at worst, a tightrope at best. Self-help books always veer close to the edge of banality -- it is pretty easy, after all, to tell depressed people not to blame themselves, to let themselves cry, to put their losses in perspective. And books by rabbis can be doubly suspect -- atheists may consider them bogus; Christians may consider them nonapplicable; single people may bridle at the constant references to family.
 In fact, Rabbi Blech briefly considered leaving his rabbinical title off the cover, then decided more was to be gained than lost by the religious affiliation. "The polls show that more than 90 percent of people do believe in God," he said. "And remember, 'god' makes up three-quarters of the word 'gold."'
 That last remark was said jokingly; the following was not: "Writing this book was a personal catharsis. I'm not just metaphorically saying, 'I feel your pain'; I'm telling people, 'A rabbi actually felt your pain -- acted stupid about money, went into denial, went through all the things you went through."'
 Rabbi Blech has done his best to broaden the book's appeal and reach. He conscripted an acquaintance, Monsignor James P. Lisante, to write the introduction -- a not-so-subtle way to woo Christian readers. 
 Rabbi Blech quotes as readily from secular heroes as biblical ones: King David may have "melted away my couch with my tears," but it was Elizabeth Taylor who, after a robbery in her home, said, "I don't cry for things that don't cry for me," and it was the Beatles who noted that "all you need is love."
 Perhaps most important, he leavens the heavy philosophy with humor. There is no Chapter 11 in the book -- a little bankruptcy joke. The chart that shows the sorry rise and fall of his holdings is titled "The Blech Stock: From Womb to Tomb."
 Not surprisingly, Rabbi Blech bristles at any suggestion that he is trotting out warmed-over psychological cliches.
 "Maybe it's pat to say memories are more important than money, but then you see the news accounts from San Diego, of people running into burning homes" during the wildfires in Southern California, he said. "They were running after photo albums, not safe deposit boxes."
 So, with that as fair warning -- nothing here will be radically new, just put into a different perspective -- here is some of Rabbi Blech's hard-earned wisdom: 
 Yes, real men -- and women -- do cry, and yes, money is worth crying about. "The Hebrews used the same word for money and blood. The Bible says Abraham was blessed by riches. Money is security -- how's that for a warm, fuzzy word? -- and losing it feels like failure."
 Rotten decisions are not indicative of terminal stupidity. After all, Henry Blodget, Mary Meeker and lots of highly praised and highly paid stock analysts guessed as wrong as you did. "Failing in the stock market doesn't brand you an all-around failure," Rabbi Blech said. 
 Forgive yourself. Lots of people got sucked in by greed. Rabbi Blech even remembers one of his son's friends, an otherwise bright and seemingly responsible young man, whose plan was to quit his job, cash in his stocks and become a full-time ski bum. "Small wonder that God saw fit to send an economic flood," Rabbi Blech said. 
 No malevolent stock market spirit foisted your poor buy-and-sell timing upon you. Passing the (lost) buck onto God or karma or voodoo dolls is a form of hubris. "The market doesn't know you by name. It doesn't make a stock go down the day after you, and only you, bought it." 
 If you've lost a bundle, your neighbor probably did, too. Don't believe all the folks who claim they bought Yahoo at $12, or sold it short at $540. "The stadium couldn't have accommodated all the people who say they were there when Mark McGwire hit his 70th homer."
 If you fake optimism, it can become real in time. Exercising, hanging around with cheerful people, even using upbeat language, all can cheer you up mightily. "Don't say you're tired, say you need to change your batteries -- it really makes a difference," Rabbi Blech said. 
 Spend time with Rabbi Blech, and you quickly realize he practices what he preaches. His tale is woeful, but his eyes keep twinkling and his humor keeps flowing.
 Take his description of himself: "My predecessors all had long beards. I'm first-generation clean shaven, so think of me as a lot like my father, but in camouflage."
 Or his reason for handing his remaining investments over to a money manager: "I can still be hit by a Mack truck, but at least I won't be driving it."
 That ability to face adversity with humor did not miraculously appear after the stock market debacle.
 Rabbi Blech was born in Switzerland and, like many European Jews of his age, saw his life turned upside down when Hitler came to power. When he was 8, his family fled to Borough Park, Brooklyn, where his father quickly became a prominent rabbi.
 THERE was never any question that young Benjamin would follow suit. He went to Yeshiva University, and got the Oceanside job soon after graduation. His wife, Elaine, was his first girlfriend; they met when he was 21 and married when he was 23.
 While his interest in Judaism was profound, it was not exclusive. He majored in English -- "Rabbis write sermons and articles," he explained -- and minored in psychology. Then he got a master's degree in social psychology. "It takes more than religious knowledge to deal with a congregation," he said. 
 When he wasn't in school or synagogue, he was hanging out by Ebbets Field. ("I was a crazy Dodgers fan, plain and simple," he recalled.)
 And he still loves to tell of the time that he and two friends talked their way into Ernest Hemingway's house in Cuba. "Turns out, he'd always had a special interest in Judaism," Rabbi Blech said. 
 From the first, Rabbi Blech comfortably juggled several career balls. He presided over Young Israel Oceanside for 37 years, and also taught at Yeshiva for most of those years. 
 He has written nine other books, some serious ("Understanding Judaism: The Basics of Deed and Creed"), some cabalistic ("Your Name is Your Blessing," about the mystical meaning of Hebrew names) and some just plain playful (How else to describe "The Complete Idiot's Guide to Learning Yiddish"?).
 And there were audiences with the pope, appearances on Oprah, a chance to meet his teenage idol (Goody Rosen, a Jewish Dodger) and all kinds of honors and accolades.
 It was a charmed life -- and one that left him totally unprepared to cope with the Great Personal Depression of 2000. Now, with this latest book serving as personal catharsis -- and, of course, potential money maker -- he is back to his old contented self. 
 Or, as he puts it: "Finally, I can stop saying, 'Why did God do this to me,' and again ask, 'Why did God do this for me?"'

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rabbi Benjamin Blech, a professor at Yeshiva University in Manhattan, hopes the lessons he learned will help others who lost money when the Nasdaq plunged in 2000. (Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (75%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (75%); RELIGION (75%); LITERATURE (75%); BONDS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); RESTAURANTS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); WRITERS (61%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Books and Literature

PERSON: BLECH, RABBI BENJAMIN ; Claudia H Deutsch; Benjamin (Rabbi) Blech

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



175 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
The Mutual Fund Scandal's Next Chapter

BYLINE:  By Gretchen Morgenson

 BODY:
IT'S hard to know where the ever-amazing mutual fund scandal will take investors next. But here is a clue. Regulators are setting their sights on two new areas: funds that fail to price their portfolios properly each day and those charging excessive fees.
 Funds with stale pricing -- net asset values that do not reflect market reality -- are coming under scrutiny. "We are going to make sure that funds are priced properly even without any indication that there has been abusive market timing," said Stephen M. Cutler, director of enforcement at the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 Of particular interest are corporate or municipal bond funds whose net asset values stay mysteriously inert even as the United States Treasury market is gyrating wildly. Investors in funds whose net asset values have not reacted to major moves may be paying or receiving the wrong prices. Moreover, stale prices in bond funds provide fine opportunities for market timers who jump in and out of funds to take advantage of out-of-whack prices.
 A case in point is what occurred in the Treasury market last August. During the first week of the month, Treasury securities maturing in five years yielded between 3.1 percent and 3.22 percent. The following week, however, Treasuries fell and their yields moved sharply higher. By Aug. 15, yields on the 5-year Treasury had jumped to 3.4 percent.
 What happens in the United States Treasury market ripples through other parts of the fixed-income world, affecting prices in corporate, mortgage-backed and municipal securities. Yet some bond funds appeared to be oddly impervious to the August moves. Consider, for example, the Franklin AGE High Income fund, which invests in speculative-grade debt. From Aug. 8 through Aug. 18, while the yields on Treasuries went from 3.18 percent to 3.4 percent, the Franklin fund's net asset value, the price at which it is bought and sold, was constant at $1.87, except for one day when it hit $1.88. And the week of Sept. 8, when Treasury yields fell from 3.34 percent to 3.14 percent, the Franklin fund's net asset value stood still at $1.95. 
 Here's another anomaly. For three weeks beginning on Aug. 4, the net asset value of the Quaker Intermediate Municipal Bond fund, which also invests in high-yield debt, remained at $4.91. 
 A Franklin spokesman declined to comment on why the fund did not move; he would say only that it was being priced correctly. A Quaker spokesman did not return a call seeking comment.
 On the fees front, Mr. Cutler said his staff was looking closely at stock index funds that levy fees a lot higher than lower-cost funds like those offered by Vanguard Funds. The Vanguard 500 Index fund has an expense ratio of 0.18 percent, or 18 basis points. 
 While the S.E.C. is not in the business of legislating mutual fund fees, Mr. Cutler said the commission is interested in hearing how fund boards justify agreeing to pay higher fees to an adviser for what is essentially fund management on autopilot. 
 Consider the MainStay Equity Index fund, whose investment adviser is New York Life Investment Management. Its expense ratio is an astonishing 1.02 percent annually. Slightly less egregious but still expensive is the Northern Stock Index fund,which charges 0.55 percent annually. 
 A MainStay spokesman did not return a call seeking comment. 
 Lloyd Wennlund, a spokesman for Northern Trust, manager of the Northern Index Fund, said that it charges shareholders a fee at or below the median expense ratio of similar funds. The median expense ratio for Standard & Poor's index funds, he said, is 57.5 basis points. "We are higher than a Vanguard, sure," he said, "but our goal is to provide value to shareholders at a price that is at or below median pricing." 
 Nothing wrong with overcharging, so long as everyone else is doing it, right?

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Big Gap"Change from Aug. 8 to Aug. 18 this year. Graph tracks 5-year Treasury yield and Franklin AGE High-Income Fund.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); SCANDALS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); INDEX FUNDS (78%); ETHICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); DEREGULATION (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (73%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (69%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Ethics; Securities and Commodities Violations; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Interest Rates; Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) Securities and Exchange Commission; Vanguard Group of Investment Cos

PERSON: Gretchen Morgenson; Stephen M Cutler

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



176 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
After Gains, Foreign Stocks May Still Be Cheap

BYLINE:  By CONRAD DE AENLLE

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
AS strong as the stock market has been this year in the United States, many foreign markets have done even better, helped by the weak dollar, which fell to a five-year low against the euro last week. 
 Americans have taken notice and are on course to invest more money abroad than in any year since 1993; net investments overseas are likely to reach $60 billion by the end of the year, according to Morgan Stanley. 
 If the past is an accurate guide, this wanderlust may be untimely. The enthusiasm for foreign investment a decade ago turned out to be a mistake, as comparatively weak American markets took off and handily beat most other markets throughout the 1990's.
 Many professional investors are convinced, however, that history is not repeating itself. They glimpse opportunities abroad for owning cheaper companies with higher growth prospects. At the very least, they say, foreign investment is a way to avoid putting all eggs in one basket. 
 Asian markets were among the darlings in 1993 -- just before they sank in a multiyear recession that reached its trough during the currency crisis of the late 1990's -- and those same markets are enjoying high demand now. Several fund managers and analysts expressed aclear preference for Asian stocks, including John Velis, a global equity strategist at HSBC in London.
 "If I wanted to be an equity investor, I would go to Asia, particularly Hong Kong," he said. "It's still cheaper than most other places. You get growth and you don't have to pay nearly as much for it."
 Mr. Velis said he was skeptical about the strength of an American economic resurgence. 
 "There are post-bubble structural weaknesses that haven't been resolved," he said. "There's not much to be gained from relying on consumer spending. Profits are growing, but wages and investment are not." In such an environment, he counsels Americans to invest abroad for the sake of diversifying their portfolios. By doing so, "you may actually be able to get higher total returns, maybe with lower risk," he said.
While his investment choices are concentrated in Asia, Mr. Velis also likes European telephone companies because they have done a better job than their American counterparts of reducing debt. Companies like France Telecom, Deutsche Telekom and KPN in the Netherlands were deeply in debt two years ago after investing excessively in mobile phone services, but "the whole story has been resolved in a very positive way," he said. "They've cleaned up their act and are really in a position to reward shareholders by paying dividends, merging and old-fashioned share buybacks, and the competitive environment is more favorable than in the United States."
 HUGH YOUNG, head of global equities in the Singapore office of Aberdeen Asset Management, a British firm whose businesses include managing money for pension funds in the United States, also said that Americans ought to consider buying Asian stocks. "It is right for U.S. investors to be going overseas, for both push and pull factors," he said. The push factors, or negatives for the United States market, include high prices for stocks, a high level of government debt and the weak dollar, he said.
 Among the factors attracting investors to Asia, he said, is the excellent value of many stocks there. "Where can I make my money work best?" he said. "The clear winner in this is Asia, a region with long-term, above-average growth prospects where equities are reasonably valued."
 Alan Brown, the London-based chief investment officer of State Street Global Advisors, said much of the investment in foreign stocks was a result of a global shift out of bonds -- not from American stocks into foreign ones, as was the case in 1993. "A lot of what we're seeing so far is people rebalancing to get equity weights back up to where they want them to be," he said. 
 Mr. Brown's case for investing abroad rests not only on the merit of stocks in different regions but also on the currencies in which they are based. "The dollar has been declining and, in my view, is likely to continue to decline," he said. "That will increase returns on foreign markets."
 That has certainly been true this year. The euro ended 2002 a little below $1.03. When it breached $1.20 early last week, the euro's gains for the year gave dollar-based investors in Continental European stocks a return of 16 percent, on top of the increase in local market values. And those have been substantial. Since the start of the year, benchmark indexes have risen 33 percent in Germany, 13 percent in France, 15 percent in Italy and 22 percent in Spain. Those compare with a 21 percent gain in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
 The key Asian markets of Hong Kong, Korea and Singapore have risen about 30 percent this year when returns are expressed in dollars. Latin American markets have done even better; Chile, Argentina, Brazil and Peru are all up more than 60 percent, although none of the fund managers interviewed expressed a preference for these markets.
 Despite the strong gains in foreign markets, Mr. Brown said the argument for moving money out of the United States was not particularly persuasive because "in terms of global growth, the U.S. continues to be the engine." Pointing to the high growth rate of American output in the third quarter -- an annual rate of 8.2 percent -- he added: "We're not going to see anything remotely like that in Japan, Europe or the U.K. Even if you ignore the cyclical part of that trend, U.S. growth is likely to remain higher, and in the long run that has implications for earnings growth."
 By contrast, he said, Europe's economy continues to suffer from chronic fatigue syndrome, with no revival in sight. "I don't see Europe getting out of its malaise for a long time, unless Germany and France get on with their reform programs," Mr. Brown said.
 While he said that there was no argument for investing heavily in one region or another, Mr. Brown said it still made sense to invest globally. "There's always a place for some diversification because life is full of uncertainties," he said.
 Tom Elliott, a strategist in London for J.P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management, agreed that the American economy was likely to propel growth around the world. But he said that the best way to benefit from an American growth spurt was to invest in the countries where American businesses are themselves investing, either by outsourcing manufacturing or buying components for complex technology.
 "The U.S. is the powerhouse behind the global recovery, and that is driving growth in Asia," he said. "If you want to play the cyclical upturn in technology, why buy Intel instead of Samsung Electronics?" 
 Samsung's earnings are predicted to grow faster, he said, and its stock looks less expensive. The company, which is based in South Korea, makes semiconductors, mobile phones and other products.
 MR. ELLIOTT suggested taking the same roundabout route when trying to benefit from another engine of global growth: China. He said that while the country will grow rapidly, its stock market is not a great bet. "Don't buy into the Shanghai Stock Exchange," he said. "It has been underperforming. It's a great myth that economic growth is correlated with stock market growth."
 Instead, Mr. Elliott tells investors to buy "China harvest" stocks -- those of foreign companies doing business in China. One example is Hitachi, a Japanese conglomerate that is selling heavy equipment used in Chinese development projects.
 Neil Rogan, head of global equities in London for Gartmore Global Investments, the American division of a British fund manager, echoed Mr. Elliott's remarks about Asian investment, calling it the best way to tap into "the new global tech boom," encompassing devices like flat-screen televisions, digital cameras and mobile phones.
 "These are all areas where the global leaders are Japanese and other Asian companies," he said. "Therefore, my tech stocks are not in America but in Korea, Japan and Taiwan."
 Samsung Electronics is the biggest holding in Mr. Rogan's Gartmore Worldwide Leaders fund, which maintains a portfolio of just 30 to 40 stocks. Its other Asian holdings include AU Optronics, which makes flat-screen television's in Taiwan, and NEC Electronics, a semiconductor maker spun off by NEC of Japan. Shares in AU, Hitachi and many other foreign companies trade on stock markets in the United States as well as in their home countries. 
 "Those who went international five to 10 years ago found they got it wrong," Mr. Rogan said. "It's not quite black and white, but at the moment it's sensible to think international rather than domestic U.S."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shoppers inspect Samsung computers in Seoul, South Korea. Some professional investors say the stocks of technology companies in Asia are good investments. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) Chart: "Even Better Overseas"Many stock markets around the world have done better this year than the Standard & Poor's 500-stock market index. COUNTRY: VenezuelaINDEX: GeneralYEAR-TO-DATE CHANGEIN DOLLARS: +139.0%IN LOCAL CURRENCIES: +175.0 COUNTRY: BrazilINDEX: Bovespa*YEAR-TO-DATE CHANGEIN DOLLARS: +123.3IN LOCAL CURRENCIES: +85.3 COUNTRY: ArgentinaINDEX: MervalYEAR-TO-DATE CHANGEIN DOLLARS: +119.3IN LOCAL CURRENCIES: +95.7 COUNTRY: GermanyINDEX: DAX*YEAR-TO-DATE CHANGEIN DOLLARS: +54.3IN LOCAL CURRENCIES: +32.8 COUNTRY: SpainINDEX: IBEX 35YEAR-TO-DATE CHANGEIN DOLLARS: +40.7IN LOCAL CURRENCIES: +21.7 COUNTRY: China (Hong Kong)INDEX: Hang SengYEAR-TO-DATE CHANGEIN DOLLARS: +32.7IN LOCAL CURRENCIES: +32.1 COUNTRY: ItalyINDEX: MIB 30YEAR-TO-DATE CHANGEIN DOLLARS: +32.6IN LOCAL CURRENCIES: +14.7 COUNTRY: JapanINDEX: Nikkei 225YEAR-TO-DATE CHANGEIN DOLLARS: +32.6IN LOCAL CURRENCIES: +20.9 COUNTRY: FranceINDEX: CAC-40YEAR-TO-DATE CHANGEIN DOLLARS: +30.7IN LOCAL CURRENCIES: +12.8 COUNTRY: SingaporeINDEX: Straits Times InYEAR-TO-DATE CHANGEdexIN DOLLARS: +30.6IN LOCAL CURRENCIES: +29.2 COUNTRY: MexicoINDEX: BolsaYEAR-TO-DATE CHANGEIN DOLLARS: +28.4IN LOCAL CURRENCIES: +38.6 COUNTRY: KoreaINDEX: Korea CompositeYEAR-TO-DATE CHANGEIN DOLLARS: +26.1IN LOCAL CURRENCIES: +25.8 COUNTRY: United StatesINDEX: Standard & Poor's 500YEAR-TO-DATE CHANGEIN DOLLARS: +20.6IN LOCAL CURRENCIES: N.A. COUNTRY: EnglandINDEX: FTSE 100YEAR-TO-DATE CHANGEIN DOLLARS: +19.0IN LOCAL CURRENCIES: +10.8 COUNTRY: ChinaINDEX: Shanghai CompositeYEAR-TO-DATE CHANGEIN DOLLARS: +6.9IN LOCAL CURRENCIES: +6.9 *Total-return indexes (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); US DOLLAR (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (84%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); RECESSION (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); EURO (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (73%); BONDS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: FRANCE TELECOM SA (63%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (51%)

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (63%); FTE (NYSE) (63%); FTE (BIT) (63%); MS (NYSE) (57%); DTE (FRA) (51%); DTE (BIT) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (63%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (51%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (64%) EAST CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); HONG KONG (92%); CHINA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (75%); NETHERLANDS (73%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



177 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
As the World Turns, See Oil Prices Turn With It

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
FOR the last few years many investors have shied away from big, integrated oil company stocks, largely because they believed predictions that petroleum prices were about to drop.
 Of course, that hasn't happened. 
 For most of this year, crude oil futures prices have averaged a little over $27, and renewed economic growth in the United States and the rest of the developed world is increasing demand for oil. 
 Charles M. Ober, who manages the $1.1 billion T. Rowe Price New Era fund, talked last week about developments in world petroleum markets and their effect on oil stocks. Following are excerpts from the conversation:

Q. Why have oil prices stayed firm?

A. There are a number of reasons.
 First, big oil companies have not been finding a lot of new oil, so their base production is in more of a free fall than they expected. 
 Also, a lot of political events, in Venezuela, in Nigeria, in Iraq, have taken production off line. And demand from China, which is now the world's second biggest consumer of oil, after the United States, has been strong. 
 So, there has been a certain amount of serendipity that has helped OPEC.

Q. Are conditions about to change on the supply side of the oil equation?

A. Over the last 10 years, incremental production growth came out of non-OPEC sources like Great Britain, Norway and Canada. Going forward, the big incremental producers will be Russia, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Chad and Angola.
 The other element is Iraq, and when or if productionthere gets back to prewar levels. I would not be surprised if they are producing 1.8 million to 2 million barrels a day by the end of next year. The key issue will be security. But it will be some years before Iraq comes close to producing the five million barrels a day it is capable of pumping.

Q. Assuming Congress passes an energy bill, will it do much to spur production or dampen consumption?

A. In the short run, there is not much we can do to encourage production or dampen consumption. This is a country that has been well drilled and exploited. We have exhausted the easy options.

Q. Why are many international companies excited about Russia?

A. We talk about low-hanging fruit in a lot of industries, but in Russia the fruit is on the ground. The opportunities are there to grow production at low cost. And the Russians haven't had the capital, or access to the capital, they need to do it themselves.

Q. What are the companies doing to make inroads in Russia?

A. Shell already has participations on a field-by-field approach. Total has adopted the same strategy. BP just acquired PNK, a Russian oil company. Chevron and Exxon have been strongly interested in buying Yukos, but their hands are tied at the moment because of the company's problems.

Q. Why haven't investors favored oil stocks?

A. First, they have been expecting a reversion to the mean in the oil price, to between $18 and $20 a barrel. But going forward it will be higher than that, due to political risk and higher exploration costs.
 Second, the oil companies have just not performed up to the targets they have set on production and returns on average capital employed.

Q. Haven't some companies done a better job than others at meeting their goals?

A. Exxon Mobil and Total are in very good positions because they were consistently reinvesting in new fields and in projects that would allow continued earnings and profit growth.
 BP and Royal Dutch/Shell were reinvesting in their base and doing some projects outside, but not enough. They are now changing direction, and I think that on a relative basis these two companies will see the biggest improvements in growth and profitability.

Q. Do you prefer the big international companies to other oil-related enterprises?

A. I am most favorably disposed to the big internationals. As these new projects come to fruition, I think they will generate good returns.
 I also like two major diversified oil service companies, Schlumberger and Baker Hughes. They are well positioned for significant spending in Russia, Iraq and Venezuela. These are major infrastructure plays. 
 As long as oil prices are high, the domestic oil companies can generate good cash flow. But can they reinvest it? They need to go international to do that, and that puts them up against some tough competition. 
 Murphy Oil is a very good domestic oil company that has diversified successfully internationally, in Malaysia. That could keep their plate full for at least four or five years. 
 I might add that the fund has positions in three Russian oil companies, Yukos, Lukoil and Gazprom. We have owned them since early this year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles M. Ober 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); FUTURES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); BONDS (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Stocks and Bonds; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

PERSON: Kenneth N Gilpin; Charles M Ober

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NIGERIA (79%); CHINA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CHAD (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



178 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Word for Word/Psychology of Shopping; 
How Much Is That Death Denial In the Window

BYLINE:  By LEN COSTA; Len Costa is a writer and the editorial director of HNW Inc., a consulting and research firm.

 BODY:
HOLIDAY shoppers beware: Do you really need that 42-inch plasma television with surround sound, or does your urge to splurge stem from a narcissistic personality disorder?
 Such questions are at the heart of "Psychology and Consumer Culture: The Struggle for a Good Life in a Materialistic World," a collection of essays published recently by the American Psychological Association that examine the causes and consequences of Americans' insatiable appetite for buying stuff. 
 Economists, sociologists and even anthropologists have plenty to say about consumer culture. Yet the discipline of psychology has been relatively invisible. According to the book's editors, Tim Kasser, a professor at Knox College in Illinois, and Allen D. Kanner, a private practitioner in California, this silence stems from psychologists' strong preference for studying individual behavior, as well as their "ambivalent attitude" toward social policy and criticism, especially if their findings risk appearing "anti-capitalistic." (Don't forget: it was psychologists in the early 20th century who created the modern science of advertising.) 
If these essays are any guide, Americans' shopping addiction stems from a heap of psychological baggage. Excerpts follow. LEN COSTA
Sometimes, buying a Prada bag isn't just about the Prada bag. In an essay on materialism by Tim Kasser, Richard M. Ryan, Charles E. Couchman and Kennon M. Sheldon, the authors maintain that experiences undermining basic psychological needs lead to a "materialistic value orientation," or M.V.O.:
According to our model, a strong M.V.O. is one way in which people attempt to compensate for worries and doubts about their self-worth, their ability to cope effectively with challenges and their safety in a relatively unpredictable world. . . . A growing body of research demonstrates that people who strongly orient toward values such as money, possessions, image and status report lower subjective well-being. . . For example, Kasser and Ryan (1993, 1996, 2001) have shown that when people rate the relative importance of extrinsic, materialistic values as high in comparison to other pursuits (e.g., self-acceptance, affiliation, community feeling), lower quality of life is also reported. 
Late adolescents with a strong M.V.O. report lower self-actualization and vitality, as well as more depression and anxiety. They also are rated by interviewers as lower in social productivity and general functioning and as higher in conduct disorders. . . .
Kasser and Ryan (1996, 2001) have demonstrated that an M.V.O. in college students is positively associated with narcissism, physical symptoms, and drug use and negatively associated with self-esteem and quality of relationships. . . . Cohen and Cohen (1996) found that adolescents who admire others because of their possessions are at an increased risk for personality disorders.
Providing a new angle on the phrase, "Shop till you drop," Sheldon Solomon, Jeffrey L. Greenberg and Thomas A. Pyszczynski argue that conspicuous consumption stems from a fear of death:
The purpose of this chapter is to explain the psychological underpinnings of conspicuous consumption from the perspective of terror management theory. . . . Our basic thesis is that conspicuous consumption is a direct result of the uniquely human awareness of mortality and the pursuit of self-worth and death transcendence that this awareness engenders. 
For Mary Poppins, "Enough is as good as a feast," but this nominally sensible approach to life has never been embraced or practiced by the human race. For humans, enough has never been enough; and avaricious acquisitiveness has rendered human history a giant plundering shopping spree, one that predates the first suburban shopping mall by thousands of years. . . .
The notion that the urge to splurge is fundamentally defensive death denial above and beyond the quite legitimate pursuit of material comfort and aesthetic pleasure is supported by both the historical record and contemporary empirical research. . . . 
Could the American Dream actually be just another psychopathological form of death denial raised to the level of civic virtue by cultural ideology? Is there any empirical evidence that bears directly on these claims? Yes.
Courtesy of the psychologists Jeffrey Kottler, Marilyn Montgomery and David Shepard, we meet "Ronald," a composite of the authors' clinical cases. Ronald has an unhealthy relationship with his Cadillac collection:
A 50-year-old single man came into the therapist's office for a first session. The therapist looked at the man, noticing his shaking hands and downcast eyes. He also couldn't help but observe that he was immaculately dressed in an Armani jacket -- easily worth $1,500. . . .
"Ronald" introduced himself with a rather shaky voice. . . . Determined to transcend his unhappy beginnings, Ronald had become a successful real estate broker. . . . As the local housing market boomed, Ronald had luxuriated in the trappings of success. Ronald's eyes lit up as he told how his house was once photographed for Architectural Digest and as he described his collection of vintage Cadillacs. . . .
About a month later, the therapist received a desperate call from Ronald. "Everything was going great. . . . But then the I.R.S. caught up with me. I don't want to tell you how much I owe. And I'm being sued. . . . I want to see you, but I have to tell you. . . . I'm basically broke." . . .
Ronald's case is an illustration of a psychological disorder that may be termed acquisitive desire. . . . Like substance-abuse and eating disorders, problems of A.D. represent a multifaceted cluster of enduring cognitive, behavioral, and social factors that are linked with other symptoms such as anxiety, depression, and impulsivity. . . .
We see A.D. as an overarching construct that may include features such as compulsive shopping, hoarding, greed, purchasing or collecting objects, and the neurotic pursuit of possessions. A final symptom of A.D. is the common phenomenon of clients regarding their therapist as a personal possession.
Later in the same essay, the authors dissect a special form of acquisitive desire. Their description suggests that the embattled former chief executive of Tyco International, L. Dennis Kozlowski, has more to sort out than he thinks:
A final type of disorder associated with A.D. is narcissistic personality disorder. Newspaper tabloids revel in publishing splashy stories about the bank president who was discovered to have a gold-plated toilet installed in his private chambers, paid for with bilked investors' funds, or about the school superintendent who was discovered to require a leased island condo for "business meetings." Sensational and far-fetched as these stories may seem, they are about real individuals whose neurotic greed has gotten so far out of hand that they get caught. When forced to seek help, they are usually diagnosed with a narcissistic personality disorder, which is characterized by self-aggrandizement paired with extreme reactivity to failure.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lars Leetaru) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (94%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PERSONALITY DISORDERS (89%); TRENDS (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); RETAILERS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (77%); WRITERS (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (73%); DEPRESSION (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%) Retail Stores and Trade; Consumer Behavior

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION (57%)

PERSON: len costa

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



179 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
Whose Nest Was Feathered the Most

BYLINE:  By HUBERT B. HERRING

 BODY:
 What are the nation's top conversation topics? Home prices have got to be high on the list -- because a house is the giant egg in many families' nests, of course, but also because prices just keep defying gravity. Even when growth slowed recently, it still beat inflation, and in the latest quarter, price growth turned up again for the first time in a year, to a 5.56 percent annual rate. 
 All states were winners, just some more than others. Rhode Island, at 12.35 percent, and California, at 9.7 percent, showed the fastest growth for the year, while Colorado and Utah, below 2 percent, brought up the rear. But other Rocky Mountain states are perking up, with Nevada and Montana moving up in the growth rankings to 14th and 16th. The coasts aren't the only game in town. HUBERT B. HERRING

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: SMALLEST INCREASE: UTAH 1.8%BIGGEST INCREASE: RHODE ISLAND 12.4% Map of United States highlighting one-year increase in house prices -- Period ending Sept. 30, '03 measured by following percentages: 10.1% or more7.6%-10.0%5.1%-7.5%2.6%-5.0%2.5% or less (Source by Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); RANKINGS (88%); PRICE INCREASES (73%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); States (US) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



180 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
Japan's Samurai Past Thunders Into the Present

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
THE climax of the new film "The Last Samurai" is no ordinary fight scene: It is a coda to Japan's medieval past and a nod to its enduring fighting spirit.
 After a dramatic battle, the leader of a group of rebel holdouts commits ritual suicide rather than surrender in shame to the well-armed and newly Westernized Japanese Army. The victors, awed by the rebels' bravery, bow in reverence. Though they now wear Prussian-style uniforms, they remain true to the samurais' unspoken code of Bushido. 
 The film takes place in the late 1870's, when Japan was abandoning its feudal society and industrializing, yet the same tug of war between preserving tradition and opening Japan to the world persists today. Even as Japan is about to commit troops in Iraq, sending its military abroad for the first time since World War II, the tension between old ways and modern life is evident.
The movie, though fictional, reminds us that while the samurai are gone, many of their values are still part of the fabric of Japanese society. Though outsiders -- and many Japanese -- exaggerate the resonance of this mix of allegiance, self-control and shame, the social structure that nurtures these values has resisted everything from the American occupation to encroaching globalization.
"Hierarchy is still part of everyday life in Japan," said Sheldon M. Garon, a professor of history at Princeton University and author of "Molding Japanese Minds" (Princeton University Press, 1997). "It's in every relationship, whether it's a company, college or otherwise. The basic organizational structure is remarkably resilient."
American society may celebrate initiative and reward upstarts, but most Japanese still define themselves by their affiliations and their ranking in these groups. The samurai did not invent the system; they were just ardent followers of it. But their fervor has become lore in Japan, where "salarymen" are compared to warriors, baseball teams are like armies and students cramming for exams wear headbands like kamikaze pilots.
The flip side is the shame in letting down one's boss, coach or teacher. "The Japanese ethical code consists of three main pillars: obligation, shame and the environment that surrounds people," said Shinichi Yanaka, a professor at Japan Women's University and a specialist in Bushido, the samurai's code. "To do something bad in Japan does not only mean breaking the rules but also doing something that society does not permit."
This system of social checks and balances was heavily refined during the shoguns' rule from 1600 to 1868. The circles people moved in and the roles they performed were far more rigidly defined than today, and the penalties for failure were often crueler, including banishment and death by sword.
The arrival of the Americans and the industrialization they ushered in threatened the system and the ruling class that long benefited from it. Within two decades -- the time frame for "The Last Samurai" -- Japan's industrialists and their Western backers all but replaced that status quo.
But the samurai spirit and the precepts of Bushido made a comeback in the 1930's as Japan's military prepared the nation for war. The kamikaze pilots, who defended the honor of Japan and the emperor by turning their airplanes into missiles, were the most fanatical expression of this thinking.
The sentimental attachment to the samurai code runs deep. Japanese form hundreds of relationships based on deep and often subtle obligations to one's company, school or sports teams. And with those obligations comes the shame in not meeting them.
After World War II, workers began to see themselves as toiling not for money but for the honor of serving their corporate masters, and helped turn Japan into an economic giant. During the economy's 10-year slide, though, thousands of businessmen have killed themselves for letting down co-workers, companies and families.
"After the war, people thought their companies were their family and decided to be loyal to the company," said Eiichi Motono, a professor at Waseda University who studies Japan's industrial development. "People who did not work for companies were considered heretics, and those who failed to keep up with their business were looked down on. That is why people commit suicide in today's stagnant economy."
Increasingly, Japanese are questioning their romance with the samurai past, even as many others cling to the old ways and lament the decline in the lifetime employment system and other cornerstones of postwar Japan.
One thing is certain, though: No matter how strong the pressure for cultural change, the intertwining code of obligation and shame that has grown over centuries will not unravel easily.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new film "The Last Samurai" is an act of homage to the enduring samurai code of allegiance, self-control and shame. (Photo by Warner Brothers) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); HISTORY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (77%); WORLD WAR II (77%); ETHICS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); WRITERS (67%); BASEBALL (62%) Motion Pictures

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (82%)

PERSON: Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



181 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: The Case Against King Cotton 

 BODY:
The Bush administration has wisely decided to lift steel tariffs deemed illegal by the World Trade Organization. But an even more potent test of American fealty to principles of fair competition, and to international trade law, looms on the horizon. Will the United States scrap its costly array of cotton-growing subsidies if they, too, are found illegal by the W.T.O.?
 The question is of immense importance to impoverished farmers in places like West Africa, whose livelihoods are hurt by America's unfair, taxpayer-financed version of global trade. It is also pressing. Brazil has mounted a strong legal challenge to America's cotton subsidies. It is a historic case, the first time agricultural subsidies are being credibly challenged before the W.T.O. A preliminary decision is expected next spring. 
 There is nothing that creates more anger and disillusionment in poor and developing countries than the refusal of rich nations to play by fair rules when it comes to agriculture. The United States, Europe and Japan use government subsidies to make their farmers' products more competitive. In many cases, they wind up selling their produce for less than it costs to grow, elbowing other countries' goods out of the global marketplace.
Until now, the losers got no help from the W.T.O. At that body's inception in 1995, the wealthy nations rammed through a so-called peace clause that gave them the right to bend the rules as much as they wanted as long as their subsidies did not rise beyond the level of 1992. They argued that it would provide some time to address the issue through negotiations. But as the failed September W.T.O. talks in Cancun showed, Europe, Japan and the United States are unwilling or unable to terminate the addiction to farm subsidies on their own.
Fortunately, the peace clause will lapse next year, despite shameless attempts by Europe and America to have it extended. And Brazil's cotton challenge can proceed regardless because Washington's payments to cotton growers have exceeded the already astronomic 1992 levels. Brazil's lawyers have mounted a compelling case, as even some Bush administration officials privately concede, that America's subsidies have indeed suppressed global prices and stolen market share from others.
American cotton costs a great deal to produce by international standards. Yet even though global cotton prices were crashing from 1999 to 2002, our share of global exports grew to 40 percent, from 25 percent. That was because Washington propped up King Cotton with $12.9 billion in subsidies. We were, in effect, paying the rest of the world to buy American product rather than the cheaper cotton grown in Africa and South America. In recent arguments in its W.T.O.case, Brazil offered credible expert testimony that absent Washington's subsidies, America would have exported some 40 percent less cotton. That actually seems like a conservative estimate. Still, it illustrates the magnitude of the injustice being perpetrated against poor nations for which cotton might be the only competitive export.
Antiglobalization protesters who claim to act on behalf of the world's poor are fond of taking aim at the World Trade Organization, but the cotton case shows that what the developing world needs is not a weaker trade referee, but a stronger one capable of standing up to rich nations. 
Poor African farmers and American taxpayers stand to gain if the W.T.O. does what Congress should have done long ago, and kills our cotton subsidies. Brazil should prevail, and with the peace clause's retirement, more such cases should be brought against indefensible agricultural protectionism.

Harvesting Poverty: Editorials in this series remain online at nytimes.com/harvestingpoverty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial; Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COTTON FARMING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); COTTON MARKETS (78%); AGRICULTURE (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); LAWYERS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); TESTIMONY (50%) Cotton; Editorials; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Third World and Developing Countries; Crop Controls and Subsidies ; International Trade and World Market; Surveys and Series

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) World Trade Organization

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (94%); AFRICA (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



182 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
While AmericaSells Security, China Is Buying Its Dollars

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THE last time a Chinese prime minister came to the United States, four and a half years ago, Washington was consumed by the globalization debates of the 1990's. The Treasury Department was largely in charge of China policy, and the question was not only how to get China to open its markets but also how to use market forces to speed democratization.
 But there is little such talk before the arrival this week of China's new premier, Wen Jiabao. If anyone is holding economic levers this time, it is Mr. Wen, who is overseeing China's financing of a big portion of the American budget deficit by buying American government debt on a scale once reserved for the Japanese. He can afford to: China's trade surplus with the United States is likely to hit $120 billion this year. 
 Indeed, globalization is a word that rarely, if ever, shows up in presidential speeches. "It makes him uncomfortable," a senior presidential aide who deals regularly with Mr. Bush on economic matters said the other day. As the aide spoke, Mr. Bush was being forced by the World Trade Organization -- under threat of $2.3 billion in retaliatory sanctions -- to lift tariffs he had put on imported steel 21 months ago.
"This is a group that thinks what went wrong in the 90's is that we forgot to put American interests first," the aide said of the White House. "So globalization sounds like the creation of a lot of rules that may restrict the president's choice, that dilute American influence."
The result of those suspicions is evident. The United States Treasury is no longer the central player in foreign policy that it was in the Clinton years. Its officials are still dispatched to cut off terrorists' money, to create a new currency for Iraq or to negotiate with the Chinese about letting the value of their currency rise, a development that would slow the growth of the American trade deficit. Foreign leaders say they no longer feel a need to stop by the Treasury building. Officials say Mr. Wen will visit only the White House and State Department.
Even when the White House tries to pull the levers of economic diplomacy, 90's style, the effort sometimes seems half-hearted. After the war in Afghanistan, there was talk of making it far easier for Pakistan to export textiles to the United States, in hopes of weakening the appeal of Islamic extremists by creating jobs linked to America. But the United States textile lobby warned of a loss of American jobs, and the White House went silent about the idea.
In recent weeks, Mr. Bush has revived the notion of using trade and development as an incentive to democratize the Middle East, but without specifics. The talk echoes a Clinton-era initiative directed at Israel and the Palestinians that never had much effect on the peace efforts.
"It was one thing to use these tools in Asia, where the factories are humming, there was something to sell," said Michael Mandelbaum, a foreign affairs scholar at Johns Hopkins. "But when you switch to promoting democracy in the Arab world, you discover that countries that still can't make a light bulb are not exactly ready to jump into the international economy."
When Mr. Bush visited Asia in October, he spoke at every stop about the need to fight terrorism, but went through an entire economic summit in Bangkok with only a vague discussion of investment and new trading arrangements -- subjects that other nations wanted to take up.
Mr. Bush's aides argue that if the president's predecessors had spent more time worrying about threats like Al Qaeda and less time negotiating muddy agreements on global warming and a new international financial system, the world would be a lot safer. President Bush "needed to focus on the most critical issues of American security first," Condoleezza Rice, his national security adviser, said recently. Now, she says, it is time to pursue broader goals of democracy, including in the Middle East.
Not surprisingly, Mr. Clinton's former aides say Mr. Bush has hurt his prospects for success not only by acting without broad international support in Iraq, but also by passing up opportunities to use economic and trade incentives to bolster American goals. "What's missing is a coherent economic plan to back up their talk about promoting democracy," said Charlene Barshefsky, who was Mr. Clinton's trade representative. The administration came to office talking about a new relationship with Latin America built on trade, but that effort has faltered since Sept. 11. The administration was highly critical of how its predecessor let global trade talks spin out of control in Seattle in 1999, and then found itself, at Cancun this year, stymied by the same mix of intransigence on agricultural issues and resentment over American power.
Making sure the mix of economic and security policies is right is the responsibility of Ms. Rice's National Security Council and the National Economic Council, which does not weigh in on as many international issues as it once did. 
Mr. Bush's first encounter with a major globalization issue came when he declared the Kyoto protocol on global warming dead, but promised an alternative that would include all developing countries, including China. He has not yet produced one.
Similarly, economic issues with China were a low priority for a long while, says Bates Gill, a China expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. "The pocketbook issues of trade and job losses are now bigger in the manufacturing centers of the country than the administration thinks," he said, "and China is often blamed, whether that is right or wrong." Waking up to that, Mr. Bush put limits on Chinese textiles imported here, and tariffs on low-cost Chinese-made televisions.
So it is no wonder that in addition to lending their billions to the United States Treasury, the Chinese are suddenly buying big-ticket American goods, including airplanes, to relieve some of this pressure. 
The Chinese, in short, are playing the diplomacy of globalization hard -- knowing it gives them a lot of leverage in the United States. It may not be clear yet how effective they will be in getting their way with the Bush team, but it seems safe to say that Prime Minister Wen doesn't need to worry about getting any lectures in Washington about globalization, let alone democracy.

GRAPHIC: Photos: For the Bush administration, globalization is a word to avoid. At left, Americans seeking tips on how workers in China make precision machined parts; above, steel in Cleveland headed for Europe. (Photo by Associated Press); (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); BONDS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); TERRORISM (62%); TEXTILES (60%); RELIGION (50%) International Trade and World Market; United States International Relations; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Government Bonds; Balance of Payments and Trade; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (89%) David E Sanger; Bill Clinton; Wen Jiabao (Prime Min); George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



183 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
Brandeis's Views on States' Rights, and Ice-Making, Have New Relevance

BYLINE:  By ADAM COHEN

 BODY:
Louis Brandeis wrote one of his most enduring opinions in a case about ice. The facts of The New State Ice Company v. Liebmann, a dispute between the state of Oklahoma and a renegade ice manufacturer, have long been forgotten. But Brandeis's dissent contains one of the most famous formulations in American law: that the states should be free to serve as "laboratories" of democracy.
 Brandeis was not battling about ice -- he was fighting for progressive government. New State Ice was decided in 1932, during the Great Depression. Herbert Hoover, insisting prosperity was "just around the corner," was resisting calls for action, and victims were looking to the states. Brandeis's dissent was his way of saying states had the right, perhaps the duty, to step in. 
 Brandeis's liberal argument for state power was quickly pushed aside, due to historical happenstance. After Franklin Roosevelt was elected, the federal government became the nation's engine for change. "States' rights" then became a conservative rallying cry, notably in the civil rights era. But with conservatives again controlling all three branches of the federal government, liberals are turning to the states to accomplish things they once would have pushed for in Washington -- in areas like gay marriage and corporate misbehavior. As they rethink state and federal authority, they should look on Brandeis as a pioneer, and on his New State Ice dissent as an intellectual template.
Louis Brandeis was born in Louisville in 1856, the son of a Czech-Jewish grain merchant. After graduating first in his class at Harvard Law School, he became a crusading lawyer in Boston, championing workers' rights and opposing monopolies.
Brandeis believed, above all, that the law had to keep pace with society. Defending an Oregon maximum-hour law, he submitted what became known as the "Brandeis Brief," two pages of law and more than 100 pages of facts about the harm from long workdays. It won the case, and revolutionized American law by focusing courts on the real-world consequences of their rulings.
In 1916, Brandeis was named to the Supreme Court by Woodrow Wilson, a startling addition to a tribunal known for placidly endorsing the status quo. He fought, often in lonely dissent, for a more forward-looking approach to the law. His dissents often anticipated later rulings, as in the one in a 1928 case about privacy and wiretaps, whose view the court adopted four decades later.
New State Ice concerned an ice maker who violated Oklahoma's Ice Act by operating without state permission. Oklahoma believed ice --scarce then, and critical to preserving food -- was a public concern, like electricity or railroads. The conservative court majority, skeptical of all economic regulation, ruled that Mr. Liebmann had a right to make ice.
Brandeis dissented partly as a matter of judicial deference. He noted that the Oklahoma Legislature believed unregulated ice-making would lead to "unnecessary duplication of facilities," high prices and poor service. As long as it was not acting arbitrarily, he argued, it should be able to impose its rules, whether or not the court deemed them wise.
Brandeis went on to make two more innovative points. True to his progressive values, he argued that government had an affirmative duty to seek out new approaches to the problems that confront society. The Depression, he wrote, had caused "an emergency more serious than war." Since "economic and social sciences are largely uncharted seas," he argued, the rational way to advance society was through "experimentation," the same "process of trial and error" as in the physical sciences.
It was also evident to Brandeis that these experiments were best done at the state level. Even when the federal government is locked in inaction, "a single courageous state" can "if its citizens choose, serve as a laboratory." It is "one of the happy incidents of the federal system," he noted, that when a state embarks on "novel social and economic experiments," it can do so "without risk to the rest of the country."
The federal government is showing Hoover-style inaction today on some of the most critical social and economic issues of the day, and the states are stepping forward. In corporate America, the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, has uncovered widespread malfeasance, which federal regulators were unwilling or unable to uncover. While the federal government has dug in its heels on gay rights, 14 states and the District of Columbia prohibit discrimination against gays, and Massachusetts is leading the way on gay marriage.
Conservatives, who long railed against federal power, understand how the states' rights dynamic has changed. After Massachusetts' gay marriage ruling, conservative activists demanded a federal marriage standard. Republicans in Congress now regularly try to insert pre-emption provisions, like the one in the new antispam e-mail law, that invalidate stronger state protections.
Liberals, too, are making the switch. They are not only having policies adopted in the states, they are starting to invoke states' rights. The day of the gay marriage decision, Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts squared off with Kenneth Starr, the onetime Clinton independent counsel, on ABC's "Nightline." After making the gay rights argument, Representative Frank turned to federalism. What basis, he asked, was there for taking marriage away from the states and having "the federal government forbid Massachusetts from making its own decision?" Somewhere, Justice Brandeis was smiling. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE MFG (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); DEREGULATION (88%); LAWYERS (78%); POLITICS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); WIRETAPPING (60%); MARRIAGE (51%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (51%) United States Politics and Government; States (US); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Ice; United States Politics and Government

PERSON: Louis D (1856-1941) Brandeis; Adam Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Oklahoma

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



184 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Discount Nation; 
Is Wal-Mart Good for America?

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
THE annual celebration of the American consumer economy -- the holiday shopping season -- is just underway, and Wal-Mart, the juggernaut of retailing, already seems to have claimed its first victim. The corporate owner of F.A.O. Schwarz stores said last week that it would file for bankruptcy. Bemoaning the news, analysts explained that the F.A.O. Schwarz formula of selling premium-priced toys in sumptuous surroundings could not withstand the steady advance of Wal-Mart into the toy business.
 "Will Wal-Mart Steal Christmas?" asked a Time magazine headline. 
 The toy war is merely the most recent manifestation of what is known as the Wal-Mart effect. To the company's critics, Wal-Mart points the way to a grim Darwinian world of bankrupt competitors, low wages, meager health benefits, jobs lost to imports, and devastated downtowns and rural areas across America. 
Yet there is a wider, less partisan view of the company, which perhaps more visibly than any other corporation marches to the mandate of the global capitalist economy. 
"Wal-Mart is the logical end point and the future of the economy in a society whose pre-eminent value is getting the best deal," said Robert B. Reich, the former labor secretary and a professor of social and economic policy at Brandeis University.
To the company's supporters, Wal-Mart is an agent of economic virtue, using its market power to force suppliers to become more efficient and passing the gains on to consumers as lower prices. The enthusiasts say Wal-Mart is a big reason for the country's almost nonexistent inflation and impressive productivity gains.
There is a lot to be said for getting the best deal, economists say. Prices, they note, are essentially a yardstick of efficiency, translated into consumer terms. Prices are concrete and measurable, while other values of consumer and social welfare -- say, product quality or job preservation -- are often hard to quantify or require costly intervention like protectionism or subsidies. 
Moreover, some economists note, lower prices for the kinds of basic goods on sale at Wal-Mart superstores, like food and clothes, are of the greatest benefit to the less affluent. Grocery prices, for example, drop an average of 10 to 15 percent in markets Wal-Mart has entered, analysts say.
"Wal-Mart is the greatest thing that ever happened to low-income Americans," said W. Michael Cox, chief economist of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. "They can stretch their dollars and afford things they otherwise couldn't."
Wal-Mart is the largest American corporation in terms of sales, $245 billion last year. It is now the nation's largest grocer, toy seller and furniture retailer. More than 30 percent of the disposable diapers purchased in the country are sold in Wal-Mart stores, as are 30 percent of hair-care products, 26 percent of toothpaste and 20 percent of pet food. Wal-Mart has nearly 3,000 stores in the United States, and plans to add an additional 1,000 over the next five years. Increasingly, the company is taking its formula abroad; Wal-Mart is now the largest private employer in Mexico.
The prospect of Wal-Mart amassing even more market power does not worry free-market economists like Mr. Cox. Despite the company's gains, the retail industry is still not highly concentrated, he said, with Wal-Mart accounting for 20 percent of the sales of the 100 largest retailers. Its success has been built, Mr. Cox said, on mastering the use of information technology to streamline its operations -- much like Dell Computer in the personal computer business. Inevitably, less efficient rivals will be winnowed, he added, and those that remain will compete aggressively for consumer dollars.
"With the new technology of the information age," Mr. Cox said, "we're moving to a new market structure in a lot of industries. And the optimal number of firms has gone way down."
Antitrust has traditionally been the tool for insuring competition and keeping a watchful eye on powerful companies. But the evolution of antitrust policy over the last 30 years -- to emphasize price, not the number of competitors -- has actually worked to the advantage of businesses like Wal-Mart.
In the past, antitrust policy assumed that more companies meant more competition, which was good for consumers. The Robinson-Patman Act of 1936 -- sometimes called the anti-chain store act -- was passed partly to protect small local retailers from the Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company, the Wal-Mart of its time. It prohibited price discrimination, or discounts, to different purchasers when the effect was to lessen competition. At the time, the drift of antitrust policy was to restrain big business and protect mom-and-pop stores.
The populist tinge to antitrust continued for decades. In ordering the break-up of the Aluminum Company of America in 1945, Judge Learned Hand of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit wrote that the purpose of antitrust was to "perpetuate and preserve, for its own sake and in spite of possible cost, an organization of industry in small units which can effectively compete against each other." 
In 1966, the Supreme Court sided with the Federal Trade Commission in challenging a merger in the Los Angeles grocery market, Von's Grocery and Shopping Bag Food Stores, which together had only 7.5 percent of the local market.
But the intellectual tide shifted by the 1980's, especially under the growing influence of the so-called Chicago school of economics, which emphasized prices as the fundamental gauge of consumer welfare. Market concentration and company size meant little. If big companies raised prices, they were bad. But if, like Wal-Mart, they achieved greater efficiency from economies of scale and passed the benefits onto consumers as lower prices, they were praised.
"Has our thinking on antitrust driven us toward an economic world that Wal-Mart represents?" asked Andrew I. Gavil, a professor at the Howard University law school. "I would say that it has. The harder question is whether that is a good or a bad thing."
To keep cutting costs, Wal-Mart is tough on its suppliers. Selling to Wal-Mart, by all accounts, is a brutal meritocracy. Manufacturers have been forced to lay off workers after Wal-Mart canceled orders when another vendor cut its price a few cents more. Other suppliers have shifted to low-cost operations in China and elsewhere when squeezed by Wal-Mart to cut costs further. 
Yet here again, many analysts regard Wal-Mart's practices as simply leading the way in the inevitable drive to making the economy more efficient. "Wal-Mart is tough, but totally honest and straightforward in its dealings with vendors," said Michael J. Silverstein, a senior vice president at the Boston Consulting Group. "Wal-Mart has forced manufacturers to get their act together and forced them to compete internationally."
There is some evidence that the company's zeal for efficiency has gone too far. Wal-Mart's detractors point to a trail of litigation over pinch-penny issues like unpaid overtime, and to a federal investigation into its use of poorly paid illegal immigrants as janitors. Wal-Mart insists that any problems do not reflect the culture of the company as a whole. "If there is valid criticism that comes from these cases, we will own up to it and made improvements," said Ray Bracy, vice president of international corporate affairs for Wal-Mart.
Wal-Mart's growing power has brought increased scrutiny from federal and state regulators. But as long as the company keeps delivering lower prices, they will most likely be reluctant to act, beyond prosecuting employment infractions. The classic behavior of a predatory corporation is to cut prices to drive out competition in order to raise them later. There is no evidence yet that that is the Wal-Mart strategy.
"Consumers get huge benefits from Wal-Mart as long as it has real competition," Mr. Reich said. "The worry is that it becomes so powerful that it can unfairly stifle competition."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ross MacDonald) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); TRENDS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); TOYS & GAMES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); FURNITURE STORES (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); PRODUCTIVITY (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%) Retail Stores and Trade; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Discount Selling; Labor; Wages and Salaries; International Trade and World Market; Retail Stores and Trade; Company and Organization Profiles; Fringe Benefits; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health; Rural Areas; Toys

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Schwarz, F A O (Store)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%)

PERSON: Steve Lohr; Robert B Reich; W Michael Cox

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



185 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: To Fill an Empty Far East, Russians Look to Refugees 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: SLAVYANKA, Russia, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
Here in Slavyanka, or Slavic village, a European outpost 50 miles north of the North Korean border, the Slavic population implosion is as clear as roadside meadows where cows graze among the concrete shells of abandoned houses.
 But the demographic transformation of Russia's Far East, local politicians say, could have a silver lining of global importance: providing new homes for refugees from North Korea. 
 The human drama of the estimated 150,000 North Korean refugees living clandestinely in northern China has so moved the United States Congress that bills were introduced in late November in both houses to ease American visas for some refugees and to pay for the resettlement of others.
Sergei M. Darkin, governor of Russia's Primorye region, is offering to take the North Koreans, he said Friday as he toured the Khasan district here. This finger of Russian territory is squeezed between China and the Pacific Ocean until it stops at a five-mile-wide strip of North Korea. "The U.S. is moving in the right direction to solve the problem, and I support them," he said. "I am ready to help, and financially, too." 
Djambulat A. Tekiev, the district's representative in the regional legislature, agreed, waving to a vast, empty vista here that evoked eastern Montana. "Look," he said. "No people, no development."
This plan, of course is only at the talking stage. Although the governor said he would welcome as many as 200,000 refugees, it is unclear whether the government in Moscow, which controls immigration policy, will want to risk increasing regional tensions and racial insecurities among Russians here.
In Russia's nearly 150-year hold on this region, attitudes have waxed and waned on Asian immigration. But during the 1990's, the population of this China-size area contracted by 17 percent, to a mere 6.7 million people. 
Much of the decline was attributed to Russians moving west, seeking higher living standards. But now, the nation's economy is growing, the unemployment rate has dropped to 3 percent, and labor shortages are spreading. Federal officials have set a target of adding a million new workers.
President Vladimir V. Putin "has said it is strategically important to get more people to move into the East," Pyotr Y. Samoilenko, the federal government's regional spokesman, said in Vladivostok. "The only thing that North Korea has to offer is cheap labor."
Two months ago, Mr. Darkin traveled by train from Vladivostok to North Korea. What he saw there, he said in an interview this week, gave him little hope for economic revival.
"The economy there is still on a decline," he said. Noting that his train clanked along at 25 miles an hour, stopping frequently because of power shortages, he said, "They lack everything -- fuel, cement, fertilizer."
As North Korea's penury forces it to abandon its socialist supply system, malnutrition and economic desperation are spreading, Masood Hyder, the United Nations aid coordinator in North Korea, told reporters last week in Seoul, South Korea. 
"A million people fall into this new category of underemployed beneficiaries, underemployed urban workers who need assistance," he said, urging global donors to contribute to a United Nations appeal for $221 million in aid for North Korea.
The twin bills in the United States Congress would tie future aid to North Korea to improvement in human rights, expand Radio Free Asia financing to cover 24-hour broadcasting and encourage neighboring countries to help people fleeing North Korea.
"The best thing for North Korean refugees is the opportunity to go back to a free and democratic North Korea," Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, said on submitting his bill, the North Korea Freedom Act of 2003. "Until that becomes a realistic option, we must do whatever is necessary to relieve the suffering of North Korean refugees and defectors."
With China hostile to the refugees, the Russian Far East could offer an alternative, said Mark Palmer, who was an American ambassador to Hungary as Communism collapsed.
"With Putin there is a chance," Mr. Palmer said in November at a North Korea hearing held by Senator Brownback's Foreign Relations subcommittee on Near Eastern and South Asian affairs. "We should work hard on him to let refugees come out into Russia and to create the kind of flows that I personally saw coming through Hungary in 1989, which really is what led to the collapse of East Germany."
On Friday, Kenneth H. Bacon, president of Refugees International, a Washington-based policy group, reacted to Mr. Darkin's offer, saying in a telephone interview: "The Russian proposal shows a willingness to share some of the burden. It could be a building block for dealing with the humanitarian problem of North Korea."
Governor Darkin said he wanted North Korea to come "out from behind the iron curtain." But he also called for order and stability, saying that "strengthening the border is strengthening economic relations."
On his return from North Korea, Governor Darkin said he would double next year's quota for North Koreans working here on official labor contracts, to around 5,000. To prepare local public opinion, he told reporters that less than one-third of the region's arable land was being cultivated and that North Koreans would be farming, doing construction work and picking up garbage.
North Korea's leadership is acutely aware that during the first half of the 20th century, Russian territory around here served as a base for Korean guerrilla units that fought Japan's colonial government in Korea. Kim Jong Il, North Korea's leader, was born in 1942 in Khabarovsk, a Russian city about 450 miles up the railroad from here, where his father, Kim Il Sung, trained a small military unit under Soviet supervision.
The arrival of North Korean refugees here would not be without tensions. North Korea maintains a consulate in the port city of Nakhodka to keep control over the estimated 10,000 North Koreans working on contracts in the Russian Far East, and refugees here could become targets for harassment by North Korean agents. In 1996, North Korea is believed to have ordered the assassination of the South Korean consul in Vladivostok. A North Korean diplomat who came to the door of the consulate in Nakhodka this week declined to answer any questions.
Korea's modern presence in this region dates from the 1860's, when Korean emigration controls weakened and Korean farmers started moving into Russian lands. By 1917, 100,000 Koreans were in Primorye and were the largest non-Russian group, with their own schools, newspapers and churches. After the Soviet Union fought a brief but violent border war here with Japan in the summer of 1938, though, Stalin deported most of the border region's Korean population to Central Asia.
Today, 40,000 ethnic Korean Russians live in Primorye and another 40,000 on the neighboring island of Sakhalin. In the last decade, South Korea has become the largest foreign investor in the region. Some ethnic Korean families have come back from Central Asia to demand the return of their old farms, causing uneasiness among ethnic Russians.
"I am not worried about Chinese expansionism, but Korean expansionism," said Mr. Tekiev, who runs a trading company that specializes in trade with China, a nation that starts only 20 miles west of here. In recent years, he said, two large farms in the area were returned to ethnic Korean families.
Asked to reconcile his contradictory feelings about Koreans, he said he had just built a knitting factory for 500 workers near Slavyanka. Speaking of his district, whose population has dwindled to 37,000 residents, he said, "Now I can't find any workers."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sergei M. Darkin, left, governor of the Primorye region in Russia, and Djambulat A. Tekiev, Khasan district representative in the regional legislature, say they are ready to bring North Korean refugees to their area. (Photo by Peter Blakely/Redux, for The New York Times) Map of Russia highlighting Slavyanka: Slavyanka's Slavic population shrank as Russia's economy grew.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); LABOR SHORTAGES (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); TRAINS (60%) Immigration and Refugees; Population; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (59%) Refugees International

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%) James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (56%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%) Russia; North Korea; Russia

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



186 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: An Ohio Town Is Hard Hit as Leading Industry Moves to China 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BRYAN, Ohio 

 BODY:
For 40 years workers in Bryan made Etch A Sketch, a children's drawing toy that has outlasted almost all others, and to a significant extent Etch A Sketch made Bryan. 
 This town of about 8,000, tucked into the northwestern corner of Ohio, has a tool and die factory, a tire company and a candy maker. But Etch A Sketch, the signature product of the Ohio Art Company, was Bryan's mascot. It marched in Bryan's parades. It was the mayor's calling card and the town's alter ego. 
 "You tell people you're from Bryan and they look at you blankly," said Carolyn Miller, a longtime assembly line worker at Ohio Art. "You tell them it's the home of Etch A Sketch, and they smile." 
That was true, at least, until a winter day three years ago, a week before Christmas, when Ohio Art executives called representatives of the Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical & Energy Workers Union into head offices and delivered the news. The Etch A Sketch line was moving to Shenzhen, China. About 100 union employees would lose their jobs. 
The decision did not catch employees unaware. The mostly female work force had been training Chinese counterparts on the job. Cost pressures had been dragging down profits for years. Production of other Ohio Art toys, including Betty Spaghetty dolls, had already moved to China. But coming as the American economy entered a sharp downturn, the layoffs hit workers, and Bryan, hard. Three years later only a few Etch A Sketch assembly line workers have found other jobs. Most of those who did were lifetime employees of Ohio Art who were rehired in other departments, including a few who got jobs unpacking crates full of Etch A Sketches from China.
"Everyone knows the reason these jobs move to China," said Ms. Miller, 64, who now lives on her Social Security and her husband's income. "But when it happens to you, I can tell you, it hurts." 
In a small town like Bryan, the pain was shared. Bryan's tax base is eroding from the loss of manufacturing and a population drain. The Bryan Times is full of notices of home foreclosures and auctions. 
The town's central square is in repose. The drugstores, real estate offices and bars look more like relics than marketplaces. 
The William County Courthouse, a 110-year old Romanesque Revival structure, hints at the loss. Its turrets and towers give it the aura of a fantasy castle. Toy soldiers guard the doors. But the oversize Etch A Sketch that once decorated the courthouse lawn through the Christmas season is gone. 
Toy making can be overromanticized, of course. Many workers developed muscle stress injuries from repeating the same wrist- and shoulder-twisting motions thousands of times a day on the assembly line. 
Still, workers said the biggest hole in their lives after Etch A Sketch moved was the death of a community that had bonded over many years. They sat shoulder to shoulder and shared two coffee breaks, the lunch hour and gossip. 
"I could look at someone's face in the morning and see that something was wrong," said Nancy Bible, an Etch A Sketch lifer. "Before the day was out, we all knew what it was." 
Nancy Viers, another assembly line worker, followed her grandmother and father to Ohio Art. She said she and many colleagues never expected to have another job. "The company was our family," she said. 
Sentiments like that may explain why William C. Killgallon, the company's chief executive, still looks hangdog when he talks about the decision to transfer the toy line to China. He cites ineluctable laws of economics. But his eyes water. 
"It tore our hearts out," he said in an interview in his office. "We ate with these people. We went to church with them. For some of them, this was the only job they ever had."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nancy Bible, left, and Carolyn Miller lost their jobs with the Ohio Art Company, where they made Etch A Sketch toys for over 30 years, when production was moved from Bryan, Ohio, to China. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); MAYORS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); FORECLOSURE (69%) Toys; Relocation of Business; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Taxation

COMPANY: OHIO ART CO (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Ohio Art Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (94%) SIC3944 GAMES; 

PERSON: Joseph Kahn

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (96%); SOUTH CHINA (75%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%) China; Bryan (Ohio)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



187 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: 46 Years in Cab, Recalling That Tip From Marilyn 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
It is a bitter cold morning and darkness still shrouds the city, but Sam Goldstein is already prowling the Lower East Side in his yellow taxicab. 
 A mother and daughter flag him down for a lift to a nearby elementary school, but as he pulls up to their destination, he realizes he forgot to turn on his meter. 
 "Take $6," said the mother, gently pressing the bills into his hand.
After nearly five decades of driving, Mr. Goldstein is thought by taxi industry officials to be the longest-serving active cabdriver in New York City. Over the years, he has squired around the likes of Marilyn Monroe, Frank Sinatra and Muhammad Ali. But at 80, he is fading and he knows it. "I forget things," he said. 
Next month, Mr. Goldstein's cab is due for retirement after five years' service -- a city rule -- and he will probably follow suit. His family has been pushing retirement for quite a while, but when the day comes the city will lose a piece of its history. 
"He represents the old breed of cabdrivers," said Richard Kay, the chief executive officer of the League of Mutual Taxi Owners, which represents owner-drivers. "You don't see them anymore."
Taxis used to be the province of European Jewish immigrants like Mr. Goldstein -- a Holocaust survivor from Poland -- as well as the Irish and Italians. From them came the caricature of the New York City cabby with the tweed hat, the cigar and the salty wit, a stereotype that Mr. Goldstein once embodied. Today a baseball cap and a toothpick have replaced the tweed hat and the cigar. The wit, though, remains.
As Mr. Goldstein likes to say in his gravelly drawl, his eyes crinkled and his grin wide, "I'm the last of the Mohicans." 
Cab driving remains mostly an immigrants' profession, but the immigrants are now predominantly South Asian. The industry, too, has changed, particularly its economics. A medallion costs an individual driver $225,000, so most drivers lease their cabs or work for a large fleet. Turnover is high. Career cabbies like Mr. Goldstein, who own their own medallions and cars and are in it for the long haul, are rare.
After dropping off the mother and daughter at school, Mr. Goldstein is busy. Lots of people are clamoring for cabs to escape the morning chill. He navigates the roads with a steady, practiced hand and still works four and a half days a week.
"It's already in my blood," he said. "You cannot take it away from me." 
As he makes his way north to Union Square, he spots a man in a coat and tie on a corner who climbs in and tells him to go to 53rd Street and Seventh Avenue. 
Heading uptown, under the MetLife building, Mr. Goldstein tells of how, when it was still the Pan Am building in 1977, he was driving by on a summer afternoon as the strut of a helicopter that had just landed on the roof gave way, flinging the aircraft onto its side and sending its rotor flying into the street below. Several people were killed.
His memory of the past remains sharp, from the hippies to the yuppies, the first blackout to the last. It is the very recent that gives him trouble. Coming out on the other side of the MetLife building, he asks his passenger: "Where are you going again? Oh yeah, 53rd Street."
Mr. Goldstein came to New York in 1949, the only member of his family to survive the Holocaust. At first he worked as a butcher on the Lower East Side, but soon after getting married and having a daughter, the first of two children, he began driving part time for a taxi fleet. 
At that time -- he and his wife think it was 1957 -- the base fare was 25 cents, and every four blocks the meter ticked off another nickel. Still, he found he could earn more in one night driving than he could all week as a butcher. So in 1968, he put $2,000 down toward his own medallion, which cost $27,000, spent an additional $2,000 to buy his first car, a Dodge Coronet, and he was in business. 
In those days, he hustled, working 12- to 14-hour days, six days a week. Only several years ago did he begin to cut back. 
This morning, though, he is still hustling. On 49th Street, he turns left, prompting his worried passenger to pipe up, but Mr. Goldstein reassures him that he is just taking a faster route. "You see, when you catch a light, you make a turn," he said.
Sure enough, he makes good time to 53rd and Seventh.
His customers keep him going. "If I cannot talk to the passengers," he said, "I would quit."
He is one of the rare drivers who does not have a bulletproof partition in his cab. Instead, a few years ago the city outfitted him with a surveillance camera. The first one issued, the camera records who gets in and out of Mr. Goldstein's back seat, a safety measure that does not interfere with his regaling passengers with his tales. 
But with his memory fading, he has a tendency to repeat his stories. There is the one about Marilyn Monroe, whom he picked up at 444 East 57th Street and delivered to Penn Station. She gave him a peck on the cheek, he said. When he got home with lipstick on his face, his wife asked him, "Which hooker kissed you?" 
"I said, 'Sweetheart, I'd like to marry the hooker,' " he said. 
Or the time he found $800 on the floor of his cab and turned it in. The grateful customer wanted to give him some of the money, but he told the man to keep it. He was just doing his job.
His family members talk about Sept. 11, 2001, when they frantically tried to get through to him on his cellphone. When they finally reached him, Mr. Goldstein was up on 96th Street, on the Upper East Side, working. His son, Marc, yelled at him to get home. 
"It's busy," his father protested. 
He never had time for hobbies, his relatives said, so it is not surprising that at this point in life, all he knows is to keep driving.
"It's like taking away candy from a baby," his wife, Shayne Goldstein, said. "He knows to take a shower, get dressed and go to work."
By 9 a.m., the avenues are clogged with rush-hour traffic. A hedge-fund manager who is late for a meeting persuades him to wait while the manager drops his son off at nursery school. Mr. Goldstein grumbles but agrees. After a slow slog down Park Avenue, he is rewarded with a nice tip.
These days, owner-drivers like Mr. Goldstein account for less than a third of New York City cabs, and when those who lease their cabs for a second shift are factored in, the chances of getting an owner-driver when hailing a cab are less than one in six, according to Bruce Schaller, a consultant for the taxi industry. In contrast, during the 1970's, almost every driver on the road owned his cab. 
Studies show that owner-drivers provide better service, have fewer accidents and know the city better, Mr. Schaller said. 
"It's like renting versus owning your own house," he said. "Who keeps up the place better?"
Mr. Goldstein seems to bear him out. His cab is immaculate. He has never had a serious accident, and he is a virtual Rolodex of New York City addresses. 
Lately, however, Mr. Goldstein said, he has felt the same economic squeeze suffered by drivers, owners and renters, alike. Expenses are higher and cabbies have been agitating for a fare increase.
"It doesn't pay," he said of what he does. "Expenses will kill you."
Still, he has made a decent, though not an easy, living driving a cab. He owns a two-bedroom co-op in the East Village and put two children through college.
His hack license also earned him a brief moment in the spotlight a few years ago. In 1999, Mr. Goldstein's cab was crushed when the garage where he parked collapsed. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani held a news conference and promised him a new cab, as did Rosie O'Donnell. In the end, he got one, but insurance paid for it. It is the one he will retire in. "When the car goes, " he said, "I go."
Fighting traffic in Times Square, he points to a packed corner. There used to be a theater there, where Ella Fitzgerald, Tony Bennett and others performed. 
"The old days were better," he says, before switching on his "off-duty" light.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sam Goldstein, 80, driving in Manhattan. After nearly five decades at the wheel, he is believed to be the longest-serving cabby in New York. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (91%); HOLOCAUST (65%); JEWS & JUDAISM (65%); EXECUTIVES (51%) Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers

PERSON: Sam (Taxicab Driver) Goldstein; Marilyn (1926-62) Monroe; Michael Luo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



188 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Left Faces Left in San Francisco Runoff Vote for Mayor 

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
Gavin Newsom, businessman and candidate for mayor, lives in a large house in the city's fashionable Pacific Heights neighborhood. He is the son of a retired state appeals court judge and owns a wine shop and several other businesses, many ofthem with the financial backing of a family friend, Gordon P. Getty.
 Matt Gonzalez, lawyer and candidate for mayor, shares a rented apartment with a roommate in the city's offbeat Western Addition neighborhood. He boasts in his campaign literature that he was twice jailed for contempt of court when working as a public defender. His father, who sold dental equipment in Texas, never went to college. 
 The competition to succeed Mayor Willie L. Brown Jr. in Tuesday's runoff election between Mr. Newsom, a Democrat, and Mr. Gonzalez, a member of the Green Party, has at times resembled a reality television show. A recent article in The San Francisco Chronicle characterized the race as a "babe competition" and described both men as "major hotties." The newspaper whittled the choice to this: Dapper Dan vs. the Socialist Stud. 
But beneath the spectacle, the campaign could hardly be more serious. Coming at a pivotal time for a city rattled by economic woes and uncharacteristically unsure of itself, the mayor's race carries unusual political significance locally and nationally. 
The city continues to lose jobs and residents after the dot-com crash. Its neighborhoods look faded. Housing prices remain sky high. Surveys show that chronic homelessness and panhandling are the top concerns among voters. Even tourism is struggling.
"San Francisco has to do a lot of things going forward that it never had to do before," said Roberta Achtenberg, a former member of the board of supervisors who works for the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce. "It has to do things actively to make itself attractive to the rest of the world."
A victory for the business-friendly Mr. Newsom, 36, a member of the board of supervisors who is perhaps best known for his tough-love approach to the homeless problem, would steer San Francisco down the political middle, at least as that ground is defined in a city so firmly entrenched on the left.
A win for the bass-playing and poetry-reading Mr. Gonzalez, 38, who as president of the board has helped stymie some of Mr. Newsom's initiatives, would take San Francisco down a more radical path. Last month he was a sponsor of a successful "living wage" ballot measure that raised the minimum wage in the city to $8.50. A Newsom measure that passed on the same ballot imposed restrictions on panhandling.
"This city is only going to remain beautiful if people can afford to live here," Mr. Gonzalez said in a debate this week.
Whatever the result, the election signals a generational shift in San Francisco politics, as Mr. Brown, 69, steps aside after eight years because of term limits.
"This election reminds me most of George Moscone's upsurgent grass-roots campaign in 1975, when he circumvented the local Democratic establishment and brought in people who were unrepresented and not heard," said Richard DeLeon, chairman of the political science department at San Francisco State University. "It is that kind of bottom-up energy connected with the Gonzalez campaign that contrasts with the much more top-down professional and well-funded Newsom campaign."
The election also carries extraordinary meaning for the Democratic Party, which has long dominated California politics but last month suffered a humiliating defeat when Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, was elected governor with the votes of many Democrats.
Consultants and pollsters say that Mr. Gonzalez, a former Democrat who switched to the Green Party in 2000, has managed to pull together a coalition of progressive voters, including many Democrats, that could give the Green Party its biggest municipal victory nationwide.
"This is the first serious confrontation between Greens and Democrats in the country," said Ralph Nader, who ran as the Green Party candidate for president in 2000. "The Democrats know what they have to do but they can't get themselves to do it, which is represent people more and big business less and their contributors less."
Mr. Newsom, nurtured by Mr. Brown as his successor, is still considered the favorite. 
He finished comfortably atop a field of nine candidates in the election in November and was forced into Tuesday's runoff only because no candidate received more than 50 percent of the vote.
The Democrats, nonetheless, are openly nervous. Some polls show Mr. Gonzalez in the lead. Mr. Schwarzenegger's victory still stings. And memories have not faded of the 2000 presidential election, when many Democrats blamed Mr. Nader and the Green Party for handing the White House to President Bush by siphoning votes from Al Gore.
"I was 18 years in office here and never felt the political party part of it," said Senator Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat who served as mayor and supervisor. "This is very unusual. I have never seen this particular kind of situation happen before."
Though the mayor's election is nonpartisan, the Democratic Party has pumped money and big-name resources into the race. The state party expects to spend at least $120,000 on Mr. Newsom's behalf, even though he has spent $4 million so far, compared with about $400,000 by Mr. Gonzalez.
"In terms of registration, the Greens are not a threat," said Art Torres, chairman of the California Democratic Party, "but they can be in terms of offering a candidate that may be more left than the Democratic candidate."
In the last week, Mr. Newsom was joined on the campaign trail by prominent Democrats like Mr. Gore and Ms. Feinstein. On Monday, Bill Clinton is to address a get-out-the vote rally at Mr. Newsom's headquarters, Mr. Torres said.
"Of course this is an important race for the Democratic Party," Mr. Newsom said. "All eyes are on this race, in the bastion of Democratic politics."
Mr. Newsom said Mr. Gonzalez was benefiting from a statewide backlash against "anybody associated with the incumbency" after the campaign to oust the former governor, Gray Davis. He said he was being touched by the "broad strokes" of anti-incumbent sentiment, this time on the part of far-left voters, because of his association with Mr. Brown.
"It is amazing," Mr. Newsom said. "Only in San Francisco you can be pro-choice, pro-gay marriage, anti-death penalty, pro-gun control, pro-rent control and be considered a conservative or moderate. I would be left on any national scale."
Mr. Gonzalez has sought to play down the Green Party's significance in the race. Peter Camejo, the Green candidate for governor in the past two elections, said the Greens recognized that Mr. Gonzalez could not win without Democratic votes. Only 3 percent of registered voters in the city are Greens.
Mr. Camejo, however, could barely conceal his joy about what he described as a fundamental misreading of the race's central dynamic by the Democratic Party. Just as the parade of big-name Democrats that rallied to Mr. Davis's side reminded voters of his vulnerability, Mr. Camejo said, the party's efforts here are feeding the perception of Mr. Newsom as the business-as-usual candidate.
"There is a political rebellion taking place in San Francisco," Mr. Camejo said. "It has to do with a lot of things. One of them is the sentiment for peace in the world. One of them is frustration over housing and the high prices driving out working people. The lesson that is being learned is that a people's movement based on volunteers with very little money can win."
David Binder, a pollster who has conducted some surveys for supporters of Mr. Newsom, said the wild card in the race was the large number of young Gonzalez volunteers. Mr. Gonzalez has a strong following among people in their 20's and 30's, many of whom were active in the antiwar effort this year, but they are generally not reliable voters, Mr. Binder said.
If those voters show up on Election Day, Mr. Gonzalez could win; if not, Mr. Newsom should finish on top with six or eight percentage points to spare, Mr. Binder predicted.
Asked about that prospect, Mr. Camejo said: "Who knows? Tuesday night is going to be tense."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Matt Gonzalez waited to address a poetry reading Thursday. A member of the Green Party, he boasts in his campaign literature that he was twice jailed for contempt of court when working as a public defender.; Al Gore, left, is one of the prominent Democrats who have visited San Francisco to campaign for Gavin Newsom. Liberal by national standards, Mr. Newsom represents the political middle in the left-leaning city. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); PANHANDLING (86%); HOMELESSNESS (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); JUDGES (77%); LIVING WAGE (75%); REFERENDUMS (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); TRENDS (70%); POETRY (70%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); REALITY TELEVISION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%) Mayors; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Homeless Persons

PERSON: GORDON GETTY (59%); AL GORE (58%) Gavin Newsom; Matt Gonzalez; Dean E Murphy

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) San Francisco (Calif); San Francisco (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



189 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Governor Finds Himself Explaining Again 

BYLINE:  By STACEY STOWE

 BODY:
AT a news conference in Waterbury last Tuesday, Gov. John G. Rowland told reporters that the kitchen cabinets in his Bantam Lake cottage were from Home Depot, not custom-made.
 No, he wasn't going for the everyman image; he was denying the recent allegations that contractors had renovated his Litchfield cottage at drastically reduced rates in exchange for a promise of state work. 
 "No one has claimed any quid pro quo from me," Mr. Rowland said. 
The Latin phrase, meaning this for that, is one naggingly familiar to the governor. It seems he has been under fire almost nonstop over ethics issues and political experts are starting to wonder how much patience voters have left. 
"It's the cumulative effect of all the negative stories surrounding him that could hurt him," said Ken Dautrich, a political science professor at the University of Connecticut and director of the university's Center for Survey Research.
Those negative stories have been adding up. The governor's former state treasurer, now serving four years in jail, offered management of the $20billion state pension fund in exchange for money and jobs for himself and friends. His former deputy chief of staff pleaded guilty last spring to offering state contracts to the Tomasso Group in exchange for money and gold coins. His former co-chief of staff is being investigated for his awarding of state contracts. 
Earlier this fall, Mr. Rowland's former commissioner of public works resigned after accepting free architectural drawings from a subcontractor on state jobs. The list of those subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury continues to grow. At least three of the contractors who renovated Mr. Rowland's cottage have received subpoenas, according to reports in The Hartford Courant.
Personally, Mr. Rowland has paid fines to the State Ethics Commission for using a credit card belonging to the state Republican Party for nonpolitical expenses and for underpaying when renting homes belonging tothe Tomasso family. According to Connecticut Citizen's Action Group, the Tomassos received $217 million in state contracts since 1995. 
A few weeks ago, Mr. Rowland retained William F. Dow III, a highly regarded criminal defense lawyer, but he said Tuesday that he had not been contacted by federal or state authorities about the cottage work. Mr. Rowland has described the cottage, which he bought in 1997 for $110,000, as 800-square-feet and not winterized.
Litchfield Town Hall records say its square footage is 1,203. A propane heater was installed in the house in March 1999, according to building department records. The Rowlands bought the cottage from the White Memorial Foundation, but the foundation owns the land, according to the Litchfield assessor's card on the property. When the Rowlands bought the cottage from the foundation, Arthur Diedrick was its president, a title he retains today. Mr. Diedrick is the governor's former chairman of the Connecticut Development Authority.
One Hartford lawyer and Democrat, who asked not to be identified, ticked off the names of several people who have been subpoenaed in connection with the federal corruption investigation into the awarding of state contracts. He said on Monday that the cottage contretemps is much ado about nothing, and seriously doubts whether Mr. Rowland will be charged.
But with the questions about the cottage work, his stepson's arrest in October on drug charges, the ethics fines, and the appointees in jail or plea bargaining, Mr. Rowland has certainly been bruised, the question is, how seriously?
Mr. Dautrich also said the ethics fines and the cottage questions come at a time when residents are still sore from a weak economy, making them more apt to lash out at perceived bad behavior from a leader.
Although the governor answered several general questions about the cottage and repeated that he intended to fully cooperate with any investigation, he declined to answer specifics about the work on the cottage, deeming those matters private. This tactic may backfire, Mr. Dautrich said. 
"People want to know whether or not the governor is a crook," he said. "He would be much better off if he laid his cards on the table."
Within the next two weeks, UConn will release the results of a poll seeking opinion about Mr. Rowland's performance as governor. The poll will also gauge reaction to the scandals past and present, Mr. Dautrich said.
Yet unless he is charged and convicted in criminal court, Mr. Dautrich said he doubted that Mr. Rowland would be leveled by this or any other scandal.
"He's a fighter," he said of Mr. Rowland. "He's a Republican from Waterbury and he's someone who doesn't give up easily." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. John G. Rowland's cottage on Bantam Lake is the center of a controversy over payments to contractors who did work at the house. Below, the governor at a press conference on Tuesday discussing the charges. (Photo by Thomas Cordy/The Hartford Courant); (Photo by Marc Santora/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ETHICS (90%); SUBPOENAS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CONTRACT AWARDS (77%); TESTIMONY (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); LAWYERS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); GUILTY PLEAS (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); RESIGNATIONS (66%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); COINS & COINAGE (65%); GRAND JURY (65%) Governors (US); Ethics; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (56%)

PERSON: John G (Gov) Rowland; Stacey Stowe

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Connecticut; Litchfield (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



190 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: DEVELOPMENT; 
New House, Not Free, But All Their Own

BYLINE:  By MARC FERRIS

DATELINE: LAKE CARMEL 

 BODY:
GONZALO GALVEZ feels as if he won the lottery. He and his family have been chosen to move into the first Habitat for Humanity home in Putnam County, even though it is still under construction. 
 The house is far from free: the Galvezes must spend 400 hours helping build their home -- although Mr. Galvez will do most of it -- and must pay off a $60,000 interest-free mortgage. Like any homeowner, he is also responsible for property taxes and insurance. But still, it is a home, and in an area where housing is expensive, even 400 hours of work and a mortgage of that size are a small price to pay. 
 "We provide a helping hand,not a handout," said James Killoran, executive director of Habitat for Humanity of Westchester, which has built 20 units in Westchester since its founding in 1988 and is currently building 10 more in the county. 
Mr. Galvez, 31, moved to Putnam County from Mexico 10 years ago and works for Sav A Tree, a tree service in Bedford Hills. After his wife, Irma, 29, heard about the Habitat project on television, the couple underwent a credit check and home visits from the selection committee. 
Nine other families met the eligibility requirements to be considered for the home. The committee narrowed the field to three finalists, said Judy Carpenter, a board member who is also on the selection committee. Among the rules: the candidate must be a legal resident of the United States, must have lived in Putnam County for at least a year and must have an annual income of at least $25,000. Applicants also had to have either one child or two children of the same sex, since the house has only two bedrooms. 
Habitat for Humanity International is a nondenominational Christian organization founded by Millard Fuller in 1976 as an attempt to eradicate substandard housing for the poor. The group is the 15th largest home builder in country, said Ted Swisher, vice president of the organization, which is based in Americus, Ga. Habitat reached the 50,000 mark in home building this year in the United States, and by 2005 will have built 200,000 worldwide.
"The two biggest misconceptions people have about us is that we give houses away to homeless people and that Jimmy Carter founded us," Mr. Swisher said. "We sell the houses for what they cost to build and we're trying to solve the problem of inadequate housing one home at a time." 
Potential recipients must live in substandard housing, which the Putnam chapter defined as requiring the resident to spend half of one's income on rent, or share a bedroom with a child, or have inadequate plumbing or heating. 
The Galvez family lives in a tiny two-bedroom apartment in downtown Brewster. Siding peels off the building, the roof leaks, only one bedroom is heated and bats sometimes get inside, scaring the couple's daughters, ages 7 and 4. 
"People don't believe there is any substandard housing in Putnam County, but committee members were appalled by some of the conditions we saw," said Carletta Durante, who is a member of the family support committee. 
Ms. Carpenter said: "It was eye-opening. Black mold growing in living rooms, water damage, overcrowding. Few people are aware of it, but I've spoken with county workers and friends trying to spread the word about what I've seen."
The Westchester group experienced the same skepticism when it first started. "Nobody outside the county believes that there are pockets of poverty," said Mr. Killoran, one of the county chapter's three full-time employees (along with a family services manager and a construction manager). The chapter also pays building professionals to teach volunteers sound construction techniques.
"Chapters usually start with a grass-roots group," he said, "but to become more effective, they tend to professionalize." 
The Putnam chapter has gotten off the ground slowly. Volunteers held their first meeting in 1999, said Larry Maxwell, chapter president and pastor of the Patterson Baptist Church. Completing the paperwork took a year and a half. Staffing the various committees -- family selection, construction, public relations, family support, volunteers and site selection -- also took time. 
County officials donated the Lake Carmel house, which had been vacant for more than 10 years and had been seized for nonpayment of taxes, said Robert Bondi, the county executive and a prime mover in bringing Habitat to the county. 
The process of tearing down an old building and putting up a new home on the site is behind schedule because of snags in obtaining a permit, weather delays and the challenge of retaining reliable volunteers, who have lost interest because of the delays, said Kathy Connelly, who helps on the family support committee.
Besides the architect and the construction manager, who work without charge, the group has a list of almost 200 volunteers willing to swing hammers and saw wood at the site, but there's no required number of hours for volunteers. 
The family's ethnic origins also caused grumblings, Mr. Maxwell said. "At one of our first open meetings, someone said, 'You're not going to give the house to some Hispanic family, are you?' But our selection committee considered the three finalists as families A, B and C. All they knew was that there was a man, a woman, and some kids, along with their economic situation."
In Putnam County, the 2000 census shows that the Hispanic population more than doubled after 1990 to almost 6,000, a little more than 6 percent of the county's population, which is almost 90 percent non-Hispanic white.
The chapter attributes delays to growing pains. Site selection for the next house is under way. Part of the problem in Putnam County is that much of its land lies in the New York City watershed area, so there is limited room for development, Mr. Maxwell said. As a result, the chapter is looking to build condominiums. 
"If these trends continue, a guy who fixes cars for a living or works in Kmart will never be able to own a house in Putnam County," he said. "These aren't people down on their luck, they're working people caught in the cycle of paying way too much on housing that offers far too little."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Craig Stein, foreground, works as Gonzalo Galvez, homeowner, looks on. Left: Ed Harf hammers on the house's stairs. Everett Parks (top) and Steve Griffith work on a corner of the house. (Photographs by Scott Mullin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (78%); LOTTERIES (73%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); RELIGION (62%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (53%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) Housing

ORGANIZATION: HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (93%) Habitat for Humanity

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (58%) Gonzalo Galvez; Marc Ferris

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Putnam County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



191 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS; 
The Shopping Center Shuffle: Families Yield to Corporations

BYLINE:  By CARIN RUBENSTEIN

DATELINE: OSSINING 

 BODY:
FOR the last 15 years, the Bagel Emporium at the Arcadian Shopping Center in Ossining boiled, baked and sold hundreds of thousands of 20 varieties of bagels, including plain, sesame, super onion and sunflower, as well as the flavors that didn't do as well: the chocolate chip, strawberry and spinach bagels. 
 The store closed at the end of September. The owners said they were unable to afford the increased rent on a new lease from the new landlord who had bought and renovated the shopping center in 1998. The bagel shop will be replaced by a branch of Washington Mutual, based in Seattle, the largest savings and loan in the country, which will open in January. 
 A few doors down, Starbucks, also based in Seattle, recently opened its 14th store in Westchester County. 
The 190,000-square-foot Arcadian Shopping Center has been undergoing something of a change of character since it was sold.
The Bagel Emporium is gone, and the center features a mix of businesses that is increasingly focused on national chains, varying from a Stop and Shop, a Toy Works and a McDonald's to 30 other stores, many nonchains, including a pizzeria, a beauty salon, several women's clothing stores and a pet shop. 
This kind of shuffle, in which new landlords, many of them corporations, buy shopping centers, often from the families that built them, then invest in capital improvements, raise rents and seek name-brand tenants, is becoming increasingly common in Westchester County. 
"There is a huge movement in shopping centers where small, privately owned companies are disappearing at a very rapid rate, and filling the void are public chains," said Richard Baker, the president of National Realty and Development Corporation, a private company in Purchase, which owns 90 retail shopping centers in 14 states, none of them in Westchester.
The new owner of the Arcadian center is Urstadt Biddle Properties, a real estate investment trust based in Greenwich. Such a trust owns and operates shopping centers, whose successes or failures are passed on to stockholders. Urstadt Biddle owns 26 shopping centers in the New York area, including 6 in Westchester. In 2002, the company acquired its most recent Westchester shopping center, the Westchester Pavilion Shopping Center, in White Plains, for $39.9 million. 
The company bought the Arcadian center for $11.4 million and spent about $1 million to renovate the exterior, repave the parking lot and replace outdoor lighting, according to Willing L. Biddle, president and chief operating officer. Most of Urstadt Biddle's shopping centers are in Westchester, Putnam and Fairfield Counties, said Charles J. Urstadt, chairman and chief executive, and the father-in-law of Mr. Biddle.. 
When new owners buy family-owned shopping centers, "they tend to gravitate to national companies as tenants, because they have the ability to pay the rents," and because banks will be more likely to finance the project, said Malachy Kavanagh, a spokesman for the International Council of Shopping Centers, a nonprofit trade group in Manhattan. "These tenants often advertise nationally, they have name recognition, their product line is well known and they have uniformity," he said. 
Not everyone is happy with the changes in the shopping-center economy. 
"Our old landlord treated the shopping center like he lived there, and he cared about the tenants," said Michael Rozins, a co-owner with his brother, Howard, of the Ossining Bagel Emporium, which closed.
"When Urstadt Biddle took over, they were very unfriendly and they wanted to double the rent," said Michael Rozins, who owns five other Bagel Emporiums in Westchester, selling, he says, about five million bagels a year.
Mr. Biddle responded, "I prefer not to get into the tits and tats with tenants, but I don't think we have a bad relationship with our tenants." 
 A neighborhood shopping center has at least three stores, is usually anchored by a supermarket and draws its customers from those who live within six miles, according to Nancy Veach, president of the National Research Bureau, a Chicago firm that gathers information about shopping centers nationwide. By this definition, there are 112 neighborhood or community shopping centers in Westchester, not including shopping malls, like the Cross County Mall in Yonkers and the Westchester in White Plains. About two-thirds of these shopping centers were built before 1960, according to data provided by the National Research Bureau Shopping Center Database. 
Bernard Rosenshein, 69, president of Rosenshein Associates in Mamaroneck, was among the pioneers of Westchester shopping centers, which he began to develop 45 years ago, he said, starting out with local companies and eventually forming his own business.
"We were developers who turned dirt into money," he said. "We were a manufacturer of shopping centers." His company was involved in building about 50 shopping centers in Connecticut, Long Island and Westchester over several decades, he said, adding that he still owns six in Westchester, in Yonkers, Larchmont, Mamaroneck and New Rochelle.
Mr. Baker of the National Realty and Development Corporation said that Westchester has no more space for new shopping centers, and so any new retail development will be on top of, or replacing, existing shopping centers.
"We would love to own property in Westchester," Mr. Baker said, "but there are very, very few opportunities for retail development." 
Competition is fierce. "In this market," Mr. Urstadt said, "I don't even tell my wife about the properties I'm interested in."
Some shopping center developers take advantage of aging shopping center stock, and begin building as if from the ground up. 
"We specialize in buying older, rundown, functionally obsolete shopping centers and then redeveloping them," said Adam Ifshin, the president of DLC Management Corporation in Tarrytown. DLC Management, a privately owned company, operates 38 shopping centers nationwide, including the Beach Shopping Center in Peekskill, where it oversaw the re-engineering of the entire 34,000-square-foot site.
ABOUT 10 shopping centers in Westchester are owned by real estate investment trusts, according to Jay Hyde, a spokesman for the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, a trade association in Washington. 
Retail is the strongest sector among all the real estate investment trusts, which can also include office buildings, hotels and other classes of properties, Mr. Hyde said. Among 18 shopping centers nationwide that are real estate investment trusts, returns have increased 32 percent since the beginning of 2003, he said.
Urstadt Biddle, which is also a real estate investment trust, bought the Arcadian "because we saw it was an undermanaged property that we could renovate and improve," Mr. Biddle said. "Undermanaged is a polite term for rundown." He added that grocery-store-anchored shopping centers like the Arcadian are his company's specialty. 
Leasing agents for the Arcadian Shopping Center are asking about $26 per square foot for one vacant property there, although Mr. Biddle said that the rents are based on a sliding scale, depending on what tenants can afford.
"Women's apparel stores can't afford the same rent as restaurants," he said, "but they are more desirable, since they bring women in, and women do 80 percent of the shopping."
Although the Rozins were bitter, saying they had been forced out of their store by Urstadt Biddle, Mr. Biddle contended that they were paying too little for their space. 
The Bagel Emporium owners paid $6,100 for a final, one-year lease for 4,000 square feet, and Urstadt Biddle wanted $9,700 for a new one-year lease, a sum the Rozins refused to pay, according to Howard Rozins, the store manager. 
By one estimate, Starbucks is paying about $4,000 a month for less than half the space, about 1,400 square feet. In addition, Urstadt Biddle offered Starbucks an exclusive lease agreement, guaranteeing that no other coffee vendor would get a lease in the shopping center, Mr. Biddle said.
Such conditions are quite common in shopping centers, and stores "fight very hard to get radius clauses," said Mr. Kavanagh of he International Council of Shopping Centers, adding that there is "a great deal of negotiating and competition." 
Although there is no longer a Bagel Emporium in Ossining, there is one in Tarrytown at the Bridge Plaza shopping center, where the owners will try out a new low-carb bagel any day now.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Arcadian Shopping Center, above, new businesses are replacing some stores, like the bagel shop that was run by (left insert) Howard, left, and Michael Rozin, who stand outside the store they operate in Tarrytown. Outside stores in the Arcadian are (top insert) Charles J. Urstadt, left, and Willing L. Biddle, whose company bought it in 1998. (Photographs by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (96%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); RETAIL BAKERIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (72%); PET STORES & SUPPLIES (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (69%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (67%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Shopping Centers; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: NATIONAL REALTY & DEVELOPMENT CORP (65%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (57%); URSTADT BIDDLE PROPERTIES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Arcadian Shopping Center (Ossining, NY) ; Urstadt Biddle Properties

TICKER: UBA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (65%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (65%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (53%); NAICS493110 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (53%)

PERSON: RICHARD BAKER (50%) Carin Rubenstein

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Westchester County (NY); Ossining (NY)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



192 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1724 words

HEADLINE: L.I.@WORK; 
A Doctor's Quixotic Quest for a Nobel Prize

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
IN 1957, a 21-year-old medical student from Queens, Raymond V. Damadian, faced his regular doubles partner and close friend, Charles Bruckl, in the final round of a amateur championship tennis match at Forest Hills. Mr. Bruckl won, snaring the attention and opportunities that came with the title, including a plum summer job as a tennis pro in Westhampton.
 When Mr. Bruckl came home for a visit later that summer, he was escorting a young lady from the Hamptons, Dr. Damadian recalled last month. He remembers his father's saying, "Charlie had a really cute girl with him -- why can't you get someone like that?" 
 Before the summer ended, he had. He found out that a rival Westhampton club also needed a tennis pro, then went out and landed the job. Soon he was dating the very same young lady, Donna Terry, who had accompanied his buddy to Queens. Three years later, they married. 
 Recalling the events of that long-ago summer and his father's comment, Dr. Damadian said: "That really aggravated me. I was extremely competitive."
 He still is. Having long since given up his tennis aspirations for a medical degree, followed by a career in science and business, Dr. Damadian is known for the pioneering research in magnetic resonance imaging he did in the 1960's and 70's. 
 That work has earned Dr. Damadian, the founder of the Fonar Corporation in Melville, a place in the National Inventors Hall of Fame and a National Medal for Technology from President Ronald Reagan. 
 But it did not earn him a Nobel Prize. 
 On Wednesday, this year's Nobel Prize in Medicine will be officially presented to two rival M.R.I. innovators, Paul C. Lauterbur and Sir Peter Mansfield. 
 Since the Nobel laureates were announced in October, Dr. Damadian has waged a quixotic write-in campaign, through full-page newspaper advertisements, seeking to share the prize. Dr. Damadian said the campaign had cost "quite a few hundred thousand dollars -- the bills keep coming in." He would not be more specific.
 Now he will not pursue the prize further. "The Nobel Prize isn't worth to powder to blow it up," he said late last month. "What I am concerned with is being written out of history."
 The Nobel committee's decision to honor Sir Peter, a physicist at the University of Nottingham, in England, and Dr. Lauterbur, a physical chemist at the University of Illinois, seems to be the final chapter in the Lauterbur-Damadian rivalry, one of the most bitter and most public in the world of science today. 
 The Lauterbur-Damadian sparring dates to the late 1960's, when both men began to examine how clinicians might use magnets rather than surgery to detect malignancies in the human body. Both then worked for the State University of New York, Dr. Damadian at the Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn and Dr. Lauterbur in the chemistry department at Stony Brook.
 The two men met several times before it became clear, Dr. Damadian said, that they were both competing for the same resources. "I could never understand," Dr. Damadian said, "why he would never acknowledge me. He made it appear he didn't even know me."
 For nearly three decades, Dr. Damadian has accused Dr. Lauterbur of taking credit for work he had done. "I feel as though he took the idea from me," Dr. Damadian said, "and never acknowledged where he got it from."
 Reached at his office at the University of Illinois, Dr. Lauterbur acknowledged that he knew of Dr. Damadian's work, but he refused to comment directly on Dr. Damadian's assertions. "I will not be drawn into a he-said, he-said conversation," Dr. Lauterbur said. 
 Dr. Damadian, now 67, says he published his theories first, in the March 1971 issue of the journal Science, and that Dr. Lauterbur's theories were not published until September 1972, in the journal Nature.
 In July 1977, Dr. Damadian claims to have been the first scientist to produce magnetic resonance images of tissue from a live human being.
 Dr. Damadian traces his breakthrough to June 1970, when, over the course of two weeks spent at a now-defunct scientific testing company in New Kensington, Pa., he was able to show that tumors in rats had different magnetic resonance readings than did healthy cells. This work provided the foundation for the full-body imaging developed later in the decade, he said.
 In 1971, two independent researchers, James Economou and Donald Hollis, replicated Dr. Damadian's results at the same Pennsylvania testing company. By then, Dr. Lauterbur had become the company's president.
 "He witnessed my work being repeated right in front of him," Dr. Damadian said. Since then, he said, Dr. Lauterbur has misrepresented himself as scanning the human body first, "while portraying me as only interested in doing biopsies."
 Dr. Damadian said he knew that the Nobel committee was considering him and other candidates for their M.R.I. work this year because committee representatives "had asked for my documents, which I gave them, repeatedly," he said.
 Before dawn on Oct. 6, when the Nobel Prize in Medicine was announced, Dr. Damadian was up, monitoring the Nobel Web site. When he saw that he had been snubbed, his first response was an open letter to members of the American Medical Association. "Once again," he wrote, "some unconscionablescientific pilferer is trying to steal my entire life."
 Then, in a highly unusual public write-in campaign for scientific recognition, Dr. Damadian began taking out full-page advertisements in six major international newspapers, including The New York Times, The Washington Post and The Times of London. The ads chastised the Nobel committee for its "shameful wrong" in not naming Dr. Damadian and, initially, encouraged readers to mail in a coupon promoting him for the prize. The ads also listed an e-mail address for the Nobel committee and several telephone numbers. 
 Dr. Damadian dropped the coupons from the final two ads. "There wasn't enough space," he said.
 Dr. Hans Ringertz, chairman of the Nobel Assembly at the Karolinska Institute, which awards the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, said that the assembly would not respond to Dr. Damadian's assertions. "We never comment about those that have not yet received a Nobel Prize," he said.
 Although Dr. Ringertz had previously said that this year's decision was "our final conclusion" on the credit to be given for M.R.I. research, he seemed to leave the door open, however slightly, to recognizing Dr. Damadian in the future. "No prize ever prohibits anybody to be nominated in the future," Dr. Ringertz said.
 Dr. Damadian's Nobel campaign struck some fellow scientists and academics as ill-advised.
 Recognition for the research and early practical applications of M.R.I. are "properly shared between Paul Lauterbur and Peter Mansfield," said Francis Bonner, a professor emeritus of chemistry at Stony Brook and a colleague of Dr. Lauterbur in the 1970's.
 Professor Bonner, who said that he and his wife planned to travel to Stockholm for the Nobel presentation ceremony, called Dr. Damadian's approach "very cantankerous."
 "I think this is not helping him at all," Professor Bonner said. "I think it's unfortunate that Dr. Damadian has elected to make such a public fuss. It is not enhancing his reputation in any way."
 But one Nobel laureate backs up Dr. Damadian's claims. "I don't know why he has been ignored," said Robert F. Furchgott, a 1998 Nobel laureate for his work identifying nitric oxide's role in the cardiovascular system. "I think it's wrong for him to be excluded. Everybody knows that he made a major contribution."
 Dr. Furchgott, a retired professor at Downstate, where he and Dr. Damadian were colleagues, and other past associates speculated that Dr. Damadian's personality might have contributed to his exclusion. Dr. Furchgott would not elaborate, but Lawrence Minkoff, who worked for Dr. Damadian for nearly 20 years, did.
 "Dr. Damadian has done things that have angered people," said Mr. Minkoff, a self-employed inventor who lives in Locust Valley. "He is extremely bright, extremely creative and extremely inventive. He is also very dogmatic."
 "You might call him a dropout of the Dale Carnegie school," he said, referring to the master motivator who wrote "How to Win Friends and Influence People." "Maybe not dropped out. More like drummed out."
 Since the early 1970's, Dr. Damadian has sought to position himself as a central figure in the development of what was then known as nuclear magnetic resonance. He and other researchers theorized that it would be possible to put a person inside a magnetic field to detect tumors without biopsies.
 Dr. Damadian's claims are well documented through grant proposals, by articles published in scientific journals, at the United States patent office and in legal archives. 
 Dr . Damadian said that more than 1.4 million pieces of paper were filed in two legal cases in which he successfully defended some of his 65 patents against a battery of lawyers representing the General Electric Company. He accused G.E. of infringing on his patents after the company built its own M.R.I. scanner. 
 Dr. Damadian's full-body scanning machine, the Indomitable, which he devised in 1977, is in the Smithsonian Institution's permanent collection. 
 The machine works on the theory that when placed within a magnetic field, a tumor will give off a different magnetic resonance than the surrounding healthy tissue because their chemical compositions are different. Diseased tissue shows up as a bright spot on a computer screen, indicating malignancy.
 Now that his Nobel campaign seems to have come to naught, Dr. Damadian plans to spend the week in Melville attending to routine business at Fonar, the company he founded in 1978 to make M.R.I. machines. 
 He said that the Nobel campaign had been costly, both financially and personally. His plan to bill the newspaper write-in ads to Fonar was blocked by shareholders, said Daniel Culver, a company spokesman and a cousin of Dr. Damadian's wife. 
 Dr. Damadian now speaks with some weariness about his quixotic effort. "What a scientist does with his life," he said, "is that he forgoes monetary compensation for the benefit of mankind. He expects someone is going to acknowledge what he did."
 Then he added with a sigh: "Henry Ford said history is more or less bunk. Until this experience, I didn't understand what he meant."

GRAPHIC: Photos: MAN AND MACHINE -- Dr. Raymond V. Damadian says that when the Nobel committee failed to honor his contributions to M.R.I. research, it did him a "shameful wrong." Dr. Damadian is shown working in his Brooklyn laboratory 30 years ago, left. (Photo by Dan Neville for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Dr. Raymond V. Damadian, left, with his 1977 M.R.I. machine, and two colleagues at the Downstate Medical Center, Lawrence Minkoff, center, and Michael Goldsmith. (pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (91%); SPORTS (91%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); AMATEUR SPORTS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (87%); SEASONAL WORKERS (76%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%) Medicine and Health; Magnetic Resonance Imagers; Nobel Prizes; Inventions and Patents

COMPANY: FONAR CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Fonar Corp

TICKER: FONR (NASDAQ) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS811219 OTHER ELECTRONIC & PRECISION EQUIPMENT REPAIR & MAINTENANCE (66%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SIC7629 ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC REPAIR SHOPS, NEC (66%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (66%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (67%) Raymond V (Dr) Damadian; Paul Lauterbur; Peter (Sir) Mansfield; Warren Strugatch

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



193 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: A Sad Coda To 20 Years Of Singing 

BYLINE:  By BRIAN WISE

 BODY:
IN a stark illustration of how precarious life is for cultural organizations outside a major city, the Opera Festival of New Jersey, based in Princeton, recently closed operation, after 20 years of building itself into a respected regional institution. 
 Executives at the festival cited financial troubles as the reason for closing, and blamed a steady decline in giving over the last three years that contributed to an increasing deficit. 
 But they also acknowledged management missteps. They spoke of problems handling the festival's move several years ago to Princeton from its longtime home in Lawrenceville, particularly the failure to raise money from sources outside the immediate Princeton area. 
 Festival officials also said it was a mistake not to establish an educational program, which can be a mechanism for additional fund raising. And they said the festival was hurt by a failure to define and market itself as a tourist destination so as to draw in more visitors beyond the established audience from New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania.
 "We had 20 wonderful years but this time we just couldn't eliminate the deficit," said Jack Ellis, a founder of the festival who resigned from the board in 1994 but who has remained active as chairman emeritus.
 The festival began operation in 1984 at the Lawrenceville School, presenting its offerings in the Kirby Theater there. Over the years, it grew into a respected American summer opera festival, known for innovative repertory and high-caliber productions. Singers were drawn from the Metropolitan Opera and the New York City Opera. Performances of lesser-known works by Bela Bartok, Benjamin Britten, Luigi Dallapiccola and other 20th-century composers became the event's trademark.
 In 1998, the festival moved to Princeton's McCarter Theater Center. In doing so, it acquired the use of a computer-based box office, an orchestra pit and a location that helped boost subscription sales. But at the same time, its expenses increased because production costs were higher in the improved space.
 In the 2000 season, the festival put on four productions rather than the usual three, increasing expenses further and running up a deficit of more than $500,000. 
 In 2002, the schedule was revised again, and only three productions were presented. 
 The 2003 season was one of the strongest in the company's history, highlighted by an ambitious staging of Alban Berg's atonal masterpiece "Wozzeck" and Rossini's "L'Italiana in Algeri." 
 But this was too late, especially in an economic world changed by the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Despite last-ditch fund-raising by the board that helped reduce the deficit by 20 percent, ticket sales dropped by 30 percent in the 2003 season, and many corporations reduced the size of their gifts. 
 By October, when the festival management announced its closing, there was a deficit of $886,000 on a budget of $2 million.
 Mr. Ellis said the decline in giving came in all sectors -- corporate, individual, and foundation grants. He faulted the board for failing to look outside Princeton for financial support.
 "I place a lot of this responsibility on the board," he said. "We were much too dependent on an inner circle of donors in Princeton. We built some support over the years outside of the region, but many companies were reducing their gifts significantly."
 At the same time, said David Agler, who became artistic director in 2001, the festival never gained crucial support from Princeton's wealthy elite, who are more likely to give to large cultural organizations in New York City or Philadelphia.
 "Princeton is very smug," he said. "It's considered slightly vulgar to go out looking for money in that kind of high-minded academic setting." 
 John Ricklefs, a board member and Princeton-based economist, criticized the failure to set up an educational program, which he said cut the festival off from potential funding sources.
 "Just putting on operas was not what we wanted to be about," he said. "We wanted to have educational programs. The reason we were in existence in Central Jersey was not just to give operas but also to get into the schools, and to train young singers. Not having these contributed to the drying up of funds."
 Another big problem, festival officials said, was that marketing outside of Princeton was inadequate, and so the festival never attracted a broader audience.
 "We should have not been so much a Princeton opera company as a state-wide company," Mr. Ricklefs said. "We should have taken operas to other venues throughout the state."
 David Brown, the festival's deputy executive director, said about 40 percent of the company's 2,300 ticket-buying households were Princeton residents. The other 60 percent were from eastern Pennsylvania, central New Jersey and New York City.
 "If you're presenting something that appeals to aficionados as many of our productions do, you have to bring in people from New York and Philadelphia," he said. 
 Mr. Brown also pointed out that Princeton is not well known as a summer destination, which hurt the festival in trying to attract visitors. Other summer festivals -- Glimmerglass Opera in Cooperstown, N.Y., and Santa Fe Opera in New Mexico -- have benefited from the fact that their home city attracts tourists on its own.
 "We didn't have a clear city identity like Santa Fe Opera," Mr. Ellis said, adding, "Still, it's a very attractive town with a lot of things to do."
 Leon Major, artistic director of the Boston Lyric Opera, who directed "L'Italiana in Algeri" last summer, questioned whether the festival was really a festival or simply an opera company that played in the summer.
 "My sense was that the board didn't know what it wanted to be," he said. "If it was going to be a festival, it had to be celebrating something."
 After this season, the board explored various means of keeping the company afloat. There were some possibilities. An anonymous donor who contributed more than $2 million to the festival for the past 10 years offered to underwrite a production of Leos Janacek's "Cunning Little Vixen" for 2004. And the Lawrenceville School invited the festival to return.
 But ultimately the board was exhausted by the continual struggle to keep the festival afloat, and elected to shut it down.
 Marc Mustovoy , artistic director of the Chamber Orchestra of Philadelphia, which was the orchestra for the company over the past 15 years, has hope that the event could revive.
 "If they were to mount an effort and appeal to the community, there's still a chance to revive it," he said. "They grew into a first-class company. It takes years and years to build, and then a split second and it's gone."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maria Zifchak and Michael Colvin, above, in "L'Italiana in Algeri," and Daniel Sutin in "Wozzeck," top, at the New Jersey Opera Festival in Princeton this summer. (Photographs by Cory Weaver) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); OPERA (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); THEATER (88%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); TICKET SALES (72%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (69%); BOARD CHANGES (66%); RESIGNATIONS (66%); TERRORISM (60%); TOURISM (54%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (50%) 

PERSON: Brian Wise

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



194 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2062 words

HEADLINE: Asbury Park's Long Recovery 

BYLINE:  By JILL P. CAPUZZO

DATELINE: ASBURY PARK 

 BODY:
GABRIELLE SALEMI recently stopped by to check on the granite countertops and ash wood flooring being installed in her new home, one of 30 apartments in the Britwoods Court Apartments, a restored 1920's Spanish Colonial Revival-style building that harkens back to one of this resort town's more luminous periods.
 "I see it as a good investment for the future," said Ms. Salemi, who hopes this city by the sea is on the verge of another rebirth. "I don't have a 401(k) at my business, so I'm putting my money in real estate. I have the vision to wait if I have to." 
 Yet a few blocks away, Jeanine Cinseruli was bemoaning the visionary decision she made five years ago, when she bought a four-family house on Third Street, thinking she would cash in on the wave of mostly gay, urban trendsetters who were just discovering the diamond-in-the-rough appeal of this faded resort. 
 "Some days I think it's really happening, other times I think it's the biggest scam going," said Ms. Cinseruli. "These people who are buying houses here don't really live here. They're coming for weekends. I live with the people, I have tenants. I can't even walk my dog without 18 people asking me if I want to buy coke."
 Comments like these can be heard at the Kingsley Deli, in City Hall, or on almost any street corner in Asbury Park, where the buzz is nearly deafening with people obsessively speculating about the future of a city left devoid of a middle class and ravaged by racial upheaval and municipal corruption. 
 These days, those seemingly certain of a pot of gold at the end of a protracted rainbow point to real estate prices that have increased 25 percent annually for the last few years, the opening of six new restaurants and a string of antique shops along Cookman Avenue downtown, and a $1.2 billion waterfront redevelopment plan that promises thousands of new homes and close to a half-million square feet of new commercial space.
 Yet unconvinced residents and wary real estate investors point with equal vigor to the many for sale signs around town, an indication, they say, of investors cashing out before it is too late, a continuing stream of muggings and gang skirmishes that do not appear to be lessening, and a redevelopment plan that has yet to break ground in a city where sundown is the enemy. 
 In June 2002, Governor McGreevey joined local officials and developers here to praise the latest plan to redevelop the two oceanfront blocks of Asbury Park's mile of shoreline. A year earlier, Oceanfront Acquisitions had purchased the redevelopment rights on 130 acres of land -- 56 of which can be built on -- from the previous developer, Joseph Carabetta, who went bankrupt in 1992. 
 The designated tract falls within the city's larger 230-acre redevelopment zone and includes many of Asbury Park's historic entertainment buildings, residential properties and open land. Master developer Asbury Partners L.L.C. -- a partnership of Oceanfront Acquisitions and D. Sass Municipal Finance Partners -- plans to sell rights to such subdevelopers as Kushner Companies and Paramount Homes, who in turn plan to build 3,000 new apartments and townhouse condominiums as well as 450,000 square feet of retail and entertainment space. 
 At the time of the announcement, the chief operating officer of Asbury Partners, Larry Fishman, said the city would see the first 800 units built within the next six months.
 Almost 18 months later, the only visible signs of progress at the waterfront are some spruced up concession stands and a half-mile stretch of boardwalk now being restored. Before the major construction can begin, the developers need approval from the state Department of Environmental Protection, required under the state's Coastal Area Review Act, in addition to final approval from the city's Planning Board, both of which Mr. Fishman says he expect by this spring.
 Hanging in the balance is a city at once awaiting a boom yet fearful that the runup of real estate prices will flatten, leaving investors with wildly inflated mortgages.
 "This town is very shaky right now," said Rita Morano, the owner of Kingsley Deli, which sits across Kingsley Avenue from the rusted remains of the last attempt at revitalization here. "When you have redevelopment going on, you're supposed to see something happening."
 Countering criticism, Mr. Fishman cited the $8 million boardwalk restoration, selection of subdevelopers, and technical reviews of two pavilions to be restored as "a tremendous amount of progress in a relatively short amount of time." 
 He also acknowledged that some of the studies and surveys required by the state "were much more detailed than we anticipated," noting that the company has invested $30 million on the project to date. 
One issue holding up progress has been a debate over what to do with some of Asbury Park's historic landmarks, like Convention Hall, the Paramount Theater, the Casino, the Carousel House and the Palace, which define the city's past as one of the East Coast's leading resort destinations. Asbury Partners purchased Convention Hall and the Paramount from the city for $5 million, half of which was paid for with a credit the city owed the developers for the boardwalk repairs. Mr. Fishman said the plan is to restore the Carousel house while replacing the Casino and Palace with reasonable facsimiles, a proposal that has upset many preservationists.
 Werner Baumgartner, the city's historian, is equally disturbed by what he sees as the privatization of the city's oceanfront, which the founder of Asbury Park, James Bradley, specifically designated to be used as public space when the city was developed at the turn of the last century.
 "They're ignoring the whole draw of Asbury Park - a resort, oceanfront town - and missing out on the whole heritage tourism economy," said Mr. Baumgartner. "Instead, they're putting up high-density residential and a shopping mall. This is suburban mentality in a Jersey shore resort."
 Moreover, opponents contend that Asbury Partners has spent more time trying to acquire additional property rather than proceeding with development on the land they now own. Any property within the designated area is subject to eminent domain, where the developers have the right to purchase the property for fair market value and raze it to make way for the planned development. While much of the zone consists of empty rubble-strewn lots and boarded up rooming houses, it also includes some private residences and buildings in which other developers have an interest.
 For the last 45 years, Roxy Gokberk has lived in her turn-of-the-century home two blocks from the ocean, in the redevelopment district. She and her son, who lives next door, have been told they can sell their properties now to the developer or wait to be bought out through eminent domain. Stuck in this limbo, Ms. Gokberk said she was reluctant to make costly repairs to her seven-bedroom house even though she has no interest in selling.
 "I've been looking forward to redevelopment, not thinking it would mean I had to move," said the 75-year-old woman. "I'm not anxious to make money off these developers. And I resent the fact that they think it's nothing and that I ought to sell and retire to Florida. This is my American dream." 
 At the Britwoods Court Apartments on Second Avenue, where one developer, Richard DiPetro, was granted the right to restore one of this city's first apartment houses, tenants are now moving into condominiums that sell for $119,000 to $300,000. Like so many of Asbury Park's other grand dames, the Britwoods and its neighbor, the Jersey Court Apartments, had been boarded up for several years. 
 Mr. DiPetro, who has undertaken the rehabilitation of historic buildings in Newark and Jersey City, was brought in eight years ago to assess the two buildings, which he ended up buying last year. While the Britwoods Court was spared the redeveloper's wrecking ball, Mr. DiPetro is in a legal battle with the city and the developers over restoring the Jersey Court. 
 "You can't develop your own property," said Mr. DiPietro. "You have to let the town take it under eminent domain and then buy it back from them."
 Noting that developers have offered to sell him development rights for Jersey Court for $4 million, plus $3 million in infrastructure costs and six percent of gross sales, he said "These guys are being greedy."
 The redevelopment plan calls for subdevelopers to build a full block at a time to ensure that design standards are met and related infrastructure repairs and parking are addressed, according to Mr. Fishman, who said that before the redevelopment plan was drawn up, individual developers showed little interest in Asbury Park.
 "Prior to Asbury Partners coming to Asbury Park, developers such as DiPetro had 20 years to build and did nothing," said Mr. Fishman. "They're looking to piggy back on the development plan that we've committed to." 
 While some residents question the good-faith intent of the developers, others wonder how this crime-plagued city, where 30 percent of its 17,000 residents live below the poverty level, will attract people willing to pay $300,000 for a condominium or invest in the commercial space of the proposed waterfront development.
 In September, the city council was asked to approve a $75,000 emergency appropriation for a "gang violence suppression" program, in the aftermath of a daytime shooting of two Haitians sitting in a parked car on Sewell Avenue. With 40 shootings attributed to gang warfare last year, the police director, Louis Jordan, told the council that "the issue of street gangs is out of control."
 The state's Uniform Crime Report showed violent and nonviolent crime had dropped by about 12 percent in Asbury Park in one year. From 2001 to 2002, the number of murders dropped to 3 from 5, rapes were down to 9 from 14, and robberies fell to 172 from 184. 
 But Al Compoly, a long-time member of Asbury Park's neighborhood watch, suggested that to present a better face to potential investors, the police were underreporting crimes in the city, particularly the drug traffic, which he said was ravaging the city.
 "They want this whole redevelopment thing to go and they want to tell people that crime is down," said Mr. Compoly. "I think that is the wrong message to put across. I certainly wouldn't walk the streets at night."
 Ms. Gokberk agreed, saying she was nervous going out simply to get her newspaper because of the numerous drug transactions she said she witnesses across the street from her house. 
 "I do believe it's getting worse again," she said. "It's more visible. I love to sit on my front porch, but it's all I see."
 Those who are buying into the future of Asbury Park say they are aware of the city's problems. And in fact some say they even welcome what they sense as an urban edginess that is far different from the sanitized shore towns that surround Asbury Park.
 "What interests me most about the place is the diversity," said Damien Miano, a New York City hair salon owner who bought a 1930's townhouse here in September. "I'm not the sort of gay who wants to be in the Hamptons with a bunch of other rich white guys."
 As for the potential dangers, Mr. Miano said, "I'd use the same sense that I would use if I were walking around Manhattan -- somewhere that isn't always so safe."
 Mike Nash recently paid about $600,000 for 4,600-square-foot Victorian three blocks from the ocean and around the corner from a Haitian church and soup kitchen. It is purchases like his that are used as a benchmark when many people speculate whether the market has topped out, or if housing prices have outstripped their real value. But for Mr. Nash, who counsels financially troubled companies and can recognize signs of potential trouble, he insisted that the move to Asbury Park was a good investment.
 "My wife and I decided we were ready to reinvent ourselves, take another look at life," Mr. Nash said. "There are risks, however with the chance of things turning around here, and starting so low, it's not such a big risk."
 Being a businessman, Mr. Nash has been careful to include an escape clause for himself.
 "I've learned over the years that these decisions aren't permanent," he said. "If we go in there, and it's not going where we predicted it would go, we can get out without losing too much and do something else."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Holding up progress has been debate over some historic landmarks, like the Casino, top. "I've been looking forward to redevelopment, not thinking it would mean I had to move," says Roxy Gokberk, above. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 1); With Convention Hall looming in the background, left, a new stretch of boardwalk is being constructed in Asbury Park. The future of the Carousel House, right, still has not been determined.; At the Britwoods Court Apartments on Second Avenue, where one developer, Richard DiPetro, was granted the right to restore one of this city's first apartment houses, tenants are now moving into condominiums that sell for $119,000 to $300,000. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESORTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); FLOORING (73%); US 401K PLANS (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); CORRUPTION (66%); DOGS (65%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (50%) 

PERSON: Jill P Capuzzo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Asbury Park (NJ); Asbury Park (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



195 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2777 words

HEADLINE: Faith of Our Fitness Centers 

BYLINE:  By TAMMY LA GORCE

 BODY:
THEY are reluctant to acknowledge it, but the religion-based Jewish Community Centers and Y.M.C.A.'s are engaged in a battle for the fitness dollar in New Jersey.
 These two organizations have long been the dominant players in a billion-dollar industry that capitalizes on sweat and muscle, and they continue to evolve even as smaller gyms and workout programs seem to be popping up at every other intersection. 
 Jewish Community Centers used to be known as the Young Men's Hebrew Association until around 20 years ago. "The old name eliminated women and older people," said Alan Mann, an executive vice president at the J.C.C. Association of North America in New York, "and not many people identify themselves as Hebrew anymore."
 Nowadays, the well-toned, the flabby and all body types in between seem to be lining up -- regardless of faith -- at 16 impressively appointed J.C.C. facilities around the state, which is second in concentration only to New York. 
 Like the Y's, the J.C.C.'s are more than pools, saunas, racquetball courts and neat rows of nautilus machines arranged in mirrored, air-conditioned fitness rooms. Though Y's are more ingrained in the national consciousness, J.C.C.'s function in the same community catch-all capacity: For families with young children, they offer preschools, summer camps and after-school care. For retirees, there are socials, classes and lectures. School-age children can join swim leagues or soccer or basketball teams; teens can sequester themselves in their own on-site hangout centers; and singles, in some locations, are matched at mixers and through in-house dating services. Guest speakers -- authors, politicians and other luminaries -- are booked regularly for sessions open to all members.
 Both organizations also share longevity: the country's first Y.M.C.A. was established in Boston in 1851. and the first Y.M.H.A. came a year earlier in Baltimore.
 But unlike the Y's, the J.C.C.'s adhere to an image-consciousness consistent with the times.
 Think Kmart versus Saks. J.C.C.'s operate like a high-profile brand, upholding carefully laid-out standards to meet the demands of a marketplace teeming with increasingly discriminating fitness buffs.
 Recent visits to several locations showed that where a Y employee might scan a member's card wordlessly, for example, front-desk clerks at the Jewish centers make a practice of acknowledging members by name. Where Y's hang vinyl shower curtains in their locker rooms without concern for whether they reach from one stall wall to the other, cloth curtains hang securely, with ample drape, at the J.C.C.'s.
 And then there is the pool smell: At Y's, its fetid dampness is famously pervasive. At J.C.C.'s, air-filtration systems eliminate it and also clear the air of the sweaty-sock odor that clings to most anyplace that regularly plays host to hordes of preschoolers tumbling on mats.
 Despite their differences and head-to-head competition, both groups claim mutual respect and harmonious relationships within communities in which they both operate. 
 "It may be naive of me not to, but we don't consider J.C.C.'s competitors," said Melanie Roth, who trains volunteers and employees and advises on marketing at 27 of the state's 41 Y's as an employee of the YMCA-USA, based in Chicago. 
 J.C.C. spokesmen echo that thought. "Although our goals, services and programs are similar to the Y's, we do not view them competitively because the communities we target are primarily different," said Avi Lewinson, the executive director of the Palisades J.C.C.
 But whether in metropolitan Jewish hubs like eastern Bergen County, Cherry Hill and West Orange or in less Jewish regions like Scotch Plains and Edison, the J.C.C.'s are obviously eclipsing the Y's in customers and customer devotion.
 Jenifer Wirtshafter, a member of the Central New Jersey J.C.C. in Scotch Plains, contends that "Coldwell Banker didn't sell me my house" in Westfield, "the full-service J.C.C. nearby did." 
 The J.C.C. in Cherry Hill has 11,000 members, while the Camden County Y, which includes two branches, one in nearby Voorhees and the other in Camden, has a combined membership of 3,800.
 J.C.C. Metrowest, which includes centers in West Orange and Whippany, has a combined 16,000 members, far above that of the nearest Y's: the West Essex Y in Livingston, near West Orange, which serves 4,800, and the recently refurbished Morris Center Y.M.C.A. in Cedar Knolls, with 5,700 members. 
 And the J.C.C. in Bridgewater has 5,000 members, while the Bridgewater Y, encompassing separate buildings in Bridgewater, Somerville and Hillsborough, has a total of 4,600.
 In a reversal, the Y.M.C.A./Y.W.C.A. in Ridgewood, which serves most of Bergen, Passaic and Rockland counties, has 14,000 members, surpassing the 11,000 members of the J.C.C. on the Palisades, in Tenafly. The annual rate for a family membership at the Y, however, is $540, while the J.C.C. on the Palisades is $300 steeper.
 A tour of the Tenafly grounds illustrates why.
 Reaching the J.C.C. is like arriving at a major destination. A long, winding driveway leads up a hill, past a marquee announcing coming events and to the center of the 34-acre property, a 175,000-square-foot building surrounded by gardens and the kind of statues typically found outside a small-city art museum. 
 An off-duty police officer monitors the front door, which constantly buzzes open and shut for young mothers in spandex, elderly members in windbreakers and briefcase-toting business people, freshly showered post-workout.
 Those who aren't headed toward the sprawling parking lot make their way toward a restaurant where kosher bagels and coffee keep the morning crowd lingering or -- if they're not attending a class, playing squash or racquetball, swimming or shopping at the gift boutique -- to one of two gyms.
 Membership here costs $840 for a family and $380 for a single adult. But 550 of the members have chosen to pay an additional $790 to join this location's Seiden Health Center, the fitness equivalent of a restaurant's V.I.P. room. As these well-heeled members hoist free weights or huff on stationary bikes, an employee in track pants and a crisp polo shirt circles the floor, passing out cups of water to the perspiring and panting as if they were hors d'oeuvres. When their workout is over, these members can elect to hit their own private sauna or whirlpool, pick at a complimentary brunch or choose an aromatherapy treatment in the members-only steam room.
 Downstairs, few of the 10,450 members who choose to work out at the regular gym would consider themselves second-class citizens. Here there are elliptical machines to spare, even during the busy hours of the gym, and a wall of television sets help amply spaced treadmill runners maintain their strides. 
 "I'll go downstairs sometimes and work out too," Vivian Kestenbaum of Englewood, a Seiden member, said recently after racing a friend around the indoor track. "I spend a lot of time here, and it's a nice change of scenery." In addition, she sees people she know from the center's preschool there and "It's a good place for me to book playdates," she said.
 Mr. Mann, the national executive, and Mr. Lewinson, the executive director of the Palisades J.C.C., concede that the Tenafly location is probably the state's most well-appointed. But they don't apologize for its posh or doubt its affordability. 
 The Y's and the J.C.C.'s are part of state, national and international networks, but in both organizations each location sets its own membership dues. Representatives of both organizations say that their fees, as well as their amenities, are reflective of their communities -- the more affluent the region, the pricier and more deluxe the facility. But the J.C.C. of Central New Jersey, which serves Scotch Plains, Westfield, Clark, Fanwood and Berkeley Heights, and the Fanwood-Scotch Plains Y, which is almost directly across the street in Scotch Plains, put that premise to the test.
 In a fairly middle-class area, they would be expected to have similar amenities and similar fees. But at the 26,000-square-foot J.C.C., which was remodeled in 1998 to enhance the fitness studios, teen center and pool, the dues are $665 a year for a family. At the Y, which is almost the same size and was remodeled a decade ago to include a new gym and new adult locker rooms but lacks small perquisites like towel service and blow-dryers, the same membershippackage costs $747.
 J.C.C.'s substantially outperform Y's at fund-raising, which enables them to fit the profile of gyms that Chris Ochart, general manager of the Gold's Gym in Whippany, says attracts fitness connoisseurs. 
 "People come here shopping for a gym a lot," he said, "and usually the deciding factor is price, but mostly they think of Y's as a place for the family, for kids who want to play basketball. And Y's are about the pool, too." The benefit of a private gym like Gold's or the Whippany J.C.C., he said, is the variety and the quantity of machines. "We have volume, and with volume comes convenience," he said. "You don't have to wait all the time." 
 J.C.C. fitness coordinators budget for equipment upgrades and latest-craze classes like Pilates at least annually, and when laying out their plans "some of it is pure consumerism," said Les Cohen, executive director of the Cherry Hill J.C.C. "If we want to stay competitive with private health clubs -- and we do -- we have to make sure we have plenty of treadmills and ellipticals," he said.
 For the remodeling of the J.C.C. in Scotch Plains five years ago, the Central New Jersey Jewish Federation contributed $6 million, said Lois Altschul, assistant executive director. By contrast, Karin Driexler, executive director of the Fanwood-Scotch Plains Y, said her project required a $2.4 million grant from an economic development council and a capital campaign that raised $1 million.
 At the Morris Center Y.M.C.A. at Cedar Knolls, $4 million raised through individual and corporate donors was used primarily to acquire a neighboring building and to place an expanded child-care center in it, enlarging the overall facility to 57,000 square feet, from 37,000.
 The 12,000-member Madison Y raised $5 million through fund-raisers and grants for a 2001 project that enlarged the fitness and family center to 14,000 square feet, from 9,000, while the West Orange branch of the J.C.C. Metrowest raised $14 million through the Central New Jersey Jewish Federation for an overhaul that started only recently.
 The renovation project at the Morris Center Y happened because "everything was outdated," said Michelle Breslin, its public relations coordinator. "I don't think we were losing memberships," she said, "but our base wasn't as strong."
 The fund-raising difference between Y's and J.C.C.'s may be demographic as well as cultural.
 "Historically, the Jewish community in New Jersey has very strong philanthropic support," said Eric Robbins, associate executive director of the Metrowest J.C.C. 
 Metrowest, which moved to West Orange 40 years ago and built a branch center in Whippany eight years ago, has roots in Newark, he added. 
 "And Newark has one of the strongest Jewish communities in the state," Mr. Robbins said. "That's continued in the culture. Probably, per capita, we raise a lot more money than other facilities. But that's in our history and our community's culture of giving."
 However the money gets there, members like Elvy Saraceno and Gina Berez, both of West Orange, appreciate the way it is being spent.
 "I come three or four times a week for kickboxing, dancing -- to work out," Ms. Saraceno said while walking briskly on a treadmill at the West Orange J.C.C., part of a routine she has established in the two years since she joined. "Everybody knows everybody, and you can always find something you want to do."
 Ms. Berez, a three-year member, said she preferred the West Orange site to other gyms like New York Sports. "There's not a show-off environment," she said. "No one's looking at you here."
 Neither Ms. Saraceno or Ms. Berez is Jewish. Exact breakdowns of religious affiliations were not available, but the directors of several J.C.C.'s said their memberships were about 20 percent non-Jewish. Some sites used to be exclusively Jewish, but non-Jewish memberships have picked up steadily through the years. The crowd of people working out at the J.C.C. in Whippany, for example, is typically a mix of cultures, including many Asians and a sprinkling of blacks.
 "There's no doubt that J.C.C.'s have changed," said Michael Hopkins, executive director of J.C.C. Metrowest, who has worked at various centers in various capacities since 1979, "and that the trend now is in serving the entire community." 
 Still, the keep-to-yourself environment that Ms. Berez appreciates in the fitness center doesn't necessarily extend to religious expression.
 For all the talk of inclusiveness -- "We'll take a member regardless of why," said Mr. Mann of the national association -- J.C.C.'s don't shrink from their mission to promote Jewish culture. 
 Their purpose is "to further the Jewish journey," as Mr. Mann put it. To that end, the Web sites of several J.C.C.'s note that non-Jewish food is not allowed on the premises.
 By comparison, the Y's Christian-based guiding philosophy -- the motto "We build strong kids, strong families, strong communities" is its answer to the J.C.C.'s "Shalom, you're right where you belong" -- may feel muted to its members. Its Christian principles are most visible in its community service commitments.
 As Ms. Roth of the YMCA-USA points out, most Y's efforts to impress their members in the gym come second to the more altruistic goal of sifting out needs within their towns. 
 "We'll tailor specific programs," she said. "In Newark and Paterson, the Y's are providing after-school literacy programs; they're doing job placement of teens." They also sometimes provide language classes for people who don't speak English.
 "There are very small Y's having an impact on their communities," she added. "At the Salem County Y.M.C.A. in Carneys Point, they may not have the fastest computers or the best playgrounds, but it's keeping its doors open, and that's making a difference for people there. It's a safe place to go."
 Y's make allowances through scholarships and private programs for people who would like to join but can't afford to. "We'll work with anybody who is interested in becoming a member to help," Ms. Roth said; the message to on-hold callers at the YMCA-USA repeats the reassurance that "no one is turned away because of inability to pay." 
 The principle at J.C.C.'s is similar but less guaranteed. "If you can't afford to be a part of a program but would like to, we have various different ways of helping," said Mr. Lewinson of the Palisades, "but we'll work out what a person can pay, whatever that amount is, because even if it's a dollar, we want to see that the person values the program."
 Both organizations count on the United Way for contributions, in addition to private donors and corporations, and both make a specialty of resourcefulness. When Ms. Roth visited the Westfield Y in 2001 for staff training, for example, employees from the J.C.C. of Central New Jersey sat in. "We're two organizations both working with committees and volunteers, so we figured, why not work together?" she said. 
 More significant, the Y and the J.C.C. in Edison are housed under the same roof on Oak Tree Road.
 "It wasn't a merger," explained Dorothy Rubinstein, executive director of the J.C.C., "but the J.C.C. had alarge debt" -- going back to 1985, when it opened -- "and we were never able to solve it." Several years ago, she said, the chief executive of the Metuchen/Woodbridge Y called to suggest a joint program.
 "We were overcrowded in Metuchen," explained Cindi Archambault, executive director of the Edison branch of what is now called the Metuchen/Edison/Woodbridge YMCA, "so we purchased some property from the J.C.C., an adjoining building." After hashing out the details over a five-year period, the J.C.C.-Y.M.C.A. combination opened its doors last December. 
 "We remain two separate organizations," Ms. Rubinstein said. "We're sectarian, and the Y.M.C.A. is nonsectarian, but now everybody shares the gym, the pool, the cardio equipment, the multipurpose room, and also community-wide events" in the 23,000-square-foot building. 
 "We're set up to be noncompetitive," she said, and the concept is working. "Before we joined, we had under 1,000 families as members. We've had 6,000 new memberships in the past 10 months. We should be a model for J.C.C.'s and Y.M.C.A.'s everywhere."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An aerobics class at the Y.M.C.A./Y.W.C.A. in Ridgewood, one of the few Y's where membership surpasses that of the closest Jewish Community Center. (Photo by John W. Wheeler for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Activities at both J.C.C.'s and Y's range from the physical to the social: Swim class, above, at the J.C.C. in Cherry Hill. Running track and basketball court, left, at the J.C.C. in Tenafly. A bridge game, below left, at the Ridgewood Y.M.C.A./Y.W.C.A.; Artwork in a hallway, left, at the Cherry Hill J.C.C., which has 11,000 members. And a step class, above, at the Voorhees Y, which is part of the Camden County Y. The Voorhees branch and another in Camden have a combined membership of 3,800. (Photographs, above and below, by John Wheeler for The New York Times); (Photographs by Annie McCormick for The New York Times)(pg. 23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXERCISE & FITNESS (93%); JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); RELIGION (90%); CHILDREN (86%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); RACQUETBALL (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); BASKETBALL (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); SOCCER (64%); DATING SERVICES (63%) 

ORGANIZATION: YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION (59%) Jewish Community Centers; Young Men's Christian Assn

PERSON: Tammy La Gorce

GEOGRAPHIC: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



196 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: It's Come to This: Couch Potatoes as a Tourist Attraction 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK

 BODY:
Call it silly, but this could be one of the best signs the economy has shown in months.
 Breaking records for the sheer sport of it is traditionally associated with boom times like the Roaring Twenties, when pole-sitters sought to outlast one another in fabricated tests of endurance and will, or the 1990's, when a man named David Blaine had himself buried alive. 
 Seeking to carve their own names into the roster of that bold lineage, a small band of movie enthusiasts huddled together in the "Good Morning America" studio in Times Square this weekend to watch movies for hours on end.
Specifically, these people hope to keep their eyes focused on a 10-by-7 1/2-foot screen for longer than 66 hours and 17 minutes, the record set in Germany in October. 
They passed the 24-hour mark at 10 a.m. yesterday, a group 19 strong after one dropout overnight, and were on a course to eclipse the record by the early morning hours of Monday.
But whether or not they succeed, the true aim of this stunt has already been accomplished. Netflix, an Internet movie rental company and the sponsor and organizer of the record attempt, put its name on banners all over the outside of the studio and posted people in old-fashioned usher uniforms on the street to pass out promotional fliers. A spokeswoman for the company declined to say how much the whole affair cost.
People in Times Square stopped to press their noses against the windows and stare at the movie-watchers in their human fishbowl, fulfilling the consumer end of this common Times Square promotional ploy.
"It looks like an experiment in social Darwinism," said Joe Mathers, 27, one of the barkers dressed in usher attire. The most oft-repeated query from passers-by, Mr. Mathers said, centered on the participants' ability to leave their posts and do their business, so to speak.
The answer, Netflix employees said, was that there was a five-minute break between each movie and a 15-minute break every third movie. "We're not trying to torture them," said Shannon Clouston, 32, a manager of the event who worked in shifts and slept in her own bed at night.
The participants, unpaid volunteers lured by the company because of their prior willingness to engage in so-called focus groups, enjoyed no such luxury. They were arrayed on sofas and padded chairs, sitting upright, their eyes looking toward the screen at the front of the room at all times. Two young women sat facing the participants, watching their eyes to certify the record.
Boxes of food and water bottles were kept within reach. There was a container of skin lotion on one table and a bottle of liquid antacid on another.
Each of the participants had suggested five movies, and the company had provided several dozen digital video discs, which were separated into daytime and nighttime boxes in order to ensure that nothing ribald was played on the big screens as families of tourists peered in during the day.
After starting with "Die Hard," the participants screened "The Jerk," "American Beauty," "Jurassic Park," "The Shining" and "Blazing Saddles," among others. By midday yesterday, they were bouncing dangerously between heights of brow, following "Dr. Strangelove (or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb)" with "Dumb and Dumber."
The group appeared to comprise mostly people in their 20's and 30's, with a couple of middle-aged men mixed in. There was a Tae Kwon Do expert, a computer engineer, an insurance salesman, an actor and a wax-museum manager.
Cheryl Jones, 33, of Long Island, who was interviewed from the side because she was not allowed to avert her gaze from the screen, spoke modestly of her potential to make the kind of history documented in a book named after an Irish brewery.
"This is probably the only opportunity I'm going to have to break a record unless it's an accident, like 'lived after being hit by a 2-by-4,' " she said, revealing perhaps too much of her subconscious life due to her sleep-deprived state. "No special talents."
Nearby, Ekin Binal, 24, of Connecticut, shared a couch with two women and endeavored to keep them focused by means of occasional nudging and a breathtakingly simple game wherein he selected a movie character's name and hollered it every time it was mentioned on screen.
Behind the fake living room created in the studio, an area was set up for Netflix workers to prepare food and store water. The whole thing was protected from the tourists outside by a security guard sitting in a booth, stark and drab compared with the pillow-laden living room set, with a television on -- tuned to a basketball game.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Movie watchers kept their eyes on the flickering images yesterday at the "Good Morning America" studio in Times Square. And the viewers were being viewed: At left, Cindy Gooding (with arms folded), Ekin Binal and Yvette Fineberg watch together. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPONSORSHIP (78%); FOCUS GROUPS (73%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (70%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (68%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (64%); VOLUNTEERS (60%) Motion Pictures; Records and Achievements

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Netflix (Co)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (57%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (57%)

PERSON: Michael Brick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (78%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



197 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: New Medicare Plan For Drug Benefits Prohibits Insurance 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
Medicare beneficiaries will not be allowed to buy insurance to cover their share of prescription drug costs under the new Medicare bill to be signed on Monday by President Bush, the legislation says.
 Millions of Medicare beneficiaries have bought private insurance to fill gaps in Medicare. But a little-noticed provision of the legislation prohibits the sale of any Medigap policy that would help pay drug costs after Jan. 1, 2006, when the new Medicare drug benefit becomes available. 
 This is one of many surprises awaiting beneficiaries, who will find big gaps in the drug benefit and might want private insurance to plug the holes -- just as they buy insurance to supplement Medicare coverage of doctors' services and hospital care. 
Congress cited two reasons for banning the sale of Medigap drug policies. Lawmakers wanted to prevent duplication of the new Medicare benefit. They also wanted to be sure that beneficiaries would bear some of the cost. Health economists have long asserted that when beneficiaries are insulated from the costs, they tend to overuse medical services.
Gail E. Shearer, a health policy analyst at Consumers Union, said she had mixed feelings about the prohibition.
"I don't want a return to abuses of 1970's and 80's, when lots of confusing Medigap policies were sold to vulnerable seniors," Ms. Shearer said. But she added: "Many seniors and disabled people will face a huge gap in drug coverage. In a bill that's marketed as providing choice to consumers, comprehensive drug coverage is not really an option. That's a disappointment."
The new drug benefit would be the biggest expansion of Medicare since creation of the program in 1965. But patients would still face substantial costs.
Under the standard Medicare drug benefit, the beneficiary would be responsible for a $250 deductible, 25 percent of drug costs from $251 to $2,250 and all of the next $2,850 in drug costs. Private Medigap policies could not cover any of those costs.
A Medicare drug plan could further limit coverage by establishing a list of preferred medicines known as a formulary. The list must include drugs in each "therapeutic category and class" -- antihistamines, antidepressants and cholesterol-lowering agents, for example.
But Medicare would not have to pay anything for drugs left off the list. While patients could appeal a denial of coverage, they could not buy private insurance to cover the costs of such drugs.
Under the standard benefit, a Medicare recipient would pay $3,600 of the first $5,100 of drug costs. After that, Medicare would pay 95 percent of the cost of each prescription. In theory, the bill establishes a limit of $3,600 a year on out-of-pocket costs.
But if a beneficiary bought drugs not listed on the formulary, the bill says, those costs would not be counted toward the $3,600 limit.
Congress began regulating the Medigap market in 1990, as a way to protect consumers, many of whom had bought duplicative policies. The federal government and state insurance commissioners developed 10 standard policies, to replace thousands then on the market.
Three of the 10 Medigap policies cover drugs. Under the legislation, an old policy with drug benefits could be renewed -- but only by a person who chose to forgo the new Medicare drug benefit. A person who enrolls in the new program could not buy or renew a Medigap policy to help defray drug costs.
Nearly 12 million retirees have drug coverage and other health benefits from former employers. If those retirees sign up for the Medicare benefit, the employers can help pay the beneficiaries' share of drug costs. But those payments would not count toward the $3,600 limit on out-of-pocket spending.
Under the bill, low-income elderly people eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid, the federal-state program for low-income people, would receive their drugs through Medicare. Medicare drug plans will almost certainly cover fewer drugs than Medicaid now covers, state officials say. But the bill generally prohibits Medicaid programs from supplementing the Medicare drug benefit.
If state officials wanted to supplement the new Medicare drug benefit, they would have to pick up the entire cost of the extra coverage. States would not get the discounts and rebates they now receive from manufacturers under Medicaid.
Dr. Lynn V. Mitchell, the Medicaid director in Oklahoma, said she expected Medicare formularies to be "more restrictive" than the drug coverage policies of state Medicaid programs.
"If patients do not get optimal drug therapy," Dr. Mitchell said, "costs will balloon in other areas. Patients may need more inpatient hospital care."
House and Senate negotiators who worked on the Medicare bill encouraged the National Association of Insurance Commissioners to study the Medigap market, with a view to making major changes.
In a report accompanying the bill, the conference committee said Medigap policies should be revised to provide less upfront coverage and to require beneficiaries to pay more of the initial costs of hospital and physician services.
"Numerous studies have demonstrated that covering deductibles and coinsurance has led to higher Medicare spending because beneficiaries become insensitive to costs," the report said. "Beneficiaries with Medigap consume $1,400 more in Medicare services than beneficiaries without supplemental coverage."
This, it said, "drives up costs for everyone -- premiums of Medicare beneficiaries without Medigap coverage and costs to taxpayers." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (97%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (89%); DRUG PRICES (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); PRESCRIPTION FORMULARIES (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (79%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (79%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (79%); HEALTH INSURANCE (79%); DRUG POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (74%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (73%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (73%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); HOSPITALS (69%); CHOLESTEROL (50%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Law and Legislation; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Aged; Medicine and Health

PERSON: Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



198 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: WORTH NOTING; 
For Insurance Industry, Another Transition

BYLINE:  By AVI SALZMAN

 BODY:
The Hartford Financial Services Group announced last Monday that it had agreed to acquire CNA's group life and accident insurance, short-term and long-term disability and certain specialty businesses. CNA is based in Chicago. 
 The announcement came one week after two deals involving Hartford-based Travelers Property Casualty Corporation and CIGNA were announced. 
 The most recent announcement will likely enable Hartford Financial Services to increase the scale of its operations, but the outlook for jobs in Connecticut is still murky.
The Hartford and CNA planned to cut about 10 percent of the work force once the deal goes through, but company representatives were not sure if any Connecticut workers would be let go.
"They don't know where those reductions will come, which divisions, certainly not which states," said Kristin Flyntz, a spokeswoman for the Hartford.
Ms. Flyntz said a committee would spend 60 to 90 days determining the composition of the new company.
The deal could bring new taxpayers to the state if employees of CNA are relocated. The Hartford currently employs 1,146 people in its group benefits division in Connecticut.
Harry Freeman, executive director of the Hartford Economic Development Commission, which is partially financed by the city, was optimistic. "This is one example of a strong Hartford-based company becoming even stronger," he said. AVI SALZMAN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); ACCIDENTAL DEATH & DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); DISABLED PERSONS (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%) Insurance; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (92%); TRAVELERS COS INC (58%); CIGNA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Hartford Financial Services Group; Cna Insurance Companies

TICKER: HIG (NYSE) (92%); TRV (NYSE) (58%); CI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (92%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (58%) SIC6331 FIRE; 

PERSON: Avi Salzman

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



199 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: WORTH NOTING; 
Yes, We Have a Winner, So Hold the Vote Bridgeport

BYLINE:  By JEFF HOLTZ

 BODY:
What was expected to be a close vote for the presidency of Bridgeport's City Council on Monday night never took place.
 Instead, Councilman Andres Ayala Jr., a Democrat who has held the position since the ascension of John M. Fabrizi, the former council president, to the mayoral seat in April, won by acclamation. 
 The challenger, Councilman Robert P. Curwen Sr., a Democrat, said he decided to support his opponent on Monday afternoon after learning that two previously undecided members of the 20-person council had decided to back Mr. Ayala. 
"Obviously, he did his work and got his votes," said Mr. Curwen, referring to Mr. Ayala. "So I congratulate him on that. I have nothing but admiration for my counterpart. Andre and I are friends. When this process began, I asked him to separate politics from friendship. We've both done that. Now it's time to go to work."
Mr. Ayala said he had hoped an agreement on the presidency would have come sooner, but the presence of eight new members on the council slowed things down.
"Bob and myself sat down this afternoon and decided what would be best for the city," he said. "The best thing for the city is myself as president and Bob as budget co-chair."
Mr. Ayala, a teacher at Bridgeport's Bassick High School, said the biggest issues facing the city are the aftermath of the corruption scandal under the former mayor, Joseph P. Ganim, economic development, taxes and education. Mr. Ayala said he believed working with a mayor who was once a City Council president will make his job easier.
"It creates an opportunity for some dialog," he said. 
"The mayor understands what council work is," he said, "and the frustration of dealing with an executive branch that at some times wasn't very open."
Mr. Fabrizi said he felt good about the way Mr. Ayala was selected.
"It showed unity," he said. "People exemplified leadership. It looks like everyone is concentrated and focused on continuing to move the city forward." JEFF HOLTZ

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MAYORS (89%); POLITICS (77%); CORRUPTION (50%); SCANDALS (50%) City Councils; Politics and Government; Biographical Information

PERSON: Andres Jr (Councilman) Ayala; Robert (Councilman) Curwen; Jeff Holtz

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) Bridgeport (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



200 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Big Spenders on Campus Spending Your Money

BYLINE:  By SELENA ROBERTS

 BODY:
THERE are public schools on the plains closing up as easily as pop-up books, but there is a window in the dusty gloom, and, with a little Windex, the elite can watch Nebraska's own Huskers play from that skybox perched in the heavens.
 There are hardworking taxpayers boarding up storefronts in shrinking towns that are down to their last stoplight, but the Mayor of Husker Nation, Steve Pederson, recently handed nearly $800,000 to the state employee Frank Solich to make him disappear after a 9-3 season. 
 As Timothy Egan reported last week in The New York Times, Nebraska has 7 of the nation's 12 poorest counties, but Pederson, also known as Nebraska's athletic director, will soon lure a replacement coach into his department's deep pockets with a salary in the $1 million range, maybe even more.
"At no point do taxpayers pay for the athletic department," said Nancy Kenny, Nebraska's associate athletic director, when reached last week. "We are 100 percent self-supporting." 
For a moment, ignore how this fiscal isolation has left Nebraska's frothy football lords disconnected from reality, and take Kenny at her good word. As the only game in the state, where a Husker jersey's closest competition might be a John Deere cap, Nebraska athletics may well have a claim on independence.
Other Division I shopoholics, from Ohio State to Florida State, rely on state bonds or student fees or taxes on tickets -- or all of the above -- to finance their $100 million-plus in facility upgrades, each college desperate to create the "wow" factor for a 17-year-old blue-chip recruit, who, no doubt, could be wowed by a double cheeseburger. 
To woo celebrity coaches, public universities offer cars, special housing options and low-interest loans that do not register in the salaries of these state employees. To secure the sideline rock stars, there are lucrative buyouts that are the envy of every faculty member with a worn elbow patch and a broken bicycle spoke.
"It's appalling," said Andrew Zimbalist, an economics professor at Smith College, who wrote "Unpaid Professionals: Commercialism and Conflict in Big-Time College Sports" (Princeton University Press, 1999). "There are coaches walking away with golden handshakes, something you might think taxpayers would complain about." 
Other Division I big spenders, like Oregon, turn to wealthy alumni, like Nike's Phil Knight, for capital improvements, eager to replace the stench and monotony of a weight room with climate-controlled features and plasma-screen televisions. Can't pay an athlete? Then make their stay a spa experience.
"I think we have engaged in an ungodly arms race," Vanderbilt's chancellor, E. Gordon Gee, said in a telephone interview on Thursday. "I leapt off first."
In September, Gee boldly decided to end the athletic department's separate kingdom, reintegrating it into the institution. The restructuring is intended to end athletic segregation, underscored when universities offer coaches their own salary scale and hand athletes separate cafeterias, workout facilities, dorms, classrooms and, in many cases, educational expectations. 
Easy for Vanderbilt, right? After all, the SAT stat leaders are the first to hand over their milk money as the Southeastern Conference's pushover. As Gee has said, he would "be pumping gas" if he had tried this at one of his previous stops, like Ohio State.
But this is a start, a first step toward perspective. Other officials shout "change" only to reveal their bankrupt integrity. Last week, Auburn officials boarded a booster's plane for a clandestine meeting with Louisville's Bobby Petrino, even though Tommy Tuberville was under contract, even though it would cost $4 million to terminate their football coach. Once the secret meeting was disclosed, Tuberville accepted an apology, but angry alumni have called for the resignation of Auburn's president, William Walker, who was aboard the luxury jet.
Merely another moment in a conga line of recent N.C.A.A. embarrassments. Is that Alabama smirking? As a sign of its selective morality, Alabama quickly distanced itself from Mike Price once officials discovered that his drunken night at a strip club would be detailed in a Sports Illustrated article. Price contends in a lawsuit that the article is grossly inaccurate. 
"Alabama never investigated the Sports Illustrated article," Price's lawyer, Stephen Heninger, said by phone last week from his office in Birmingham, Ala. "The president told the football team he was staying. The next morning, it was over."
Hand back the university car, move out of the luxury condo, return the college credit card. The perks were over for Price. The university's president, Robert E. Witt, had taken a stand, forced as it was.
In an ethical pinch, there is oversight by presidents. Otherwise, there is athletic department autonomy, with A.D.'s operating as corporate chief executives. Son need a job? No problem. Feeling insecure? Golden parachutes for all. 
"There is a crisis of confidence," Gee said. "If we don't solve it, we should abandon the athletic departments and turn them over to pros, and tell them, here is your farm system."
Until then, the N.F.L. and the N.B.A. get the farm free as state athletic departments continue their Caligula ways, looking at reality through the window of a skybox, siphoning states for support, trusting that taxpayers won't catch on.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nebraska Athletic Director Steve Pederson fired Frank Solich last week after a 9-3 season. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (76%); MAYORS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CELEBRITIES (74%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (74%); STUDENT EXPENSES (73%); POP & ROCK (73%); SPORTS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (60%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (50%) Football; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Coaches and Managers; Finances; Draft and Recruitment (Sports)

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (60%); NIKE INC (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (59%) University of Nebraska

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (60%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (56%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (56%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (56%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (56%)

PERSON: Selena Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 

 
