

1 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Trade Office Called Too Tiny to Achieve International Goals

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
When a midlevel Pentagon official and Mickey Kantor, the United States Trade Representative, traveled to Brussels in March, the Pentagon official took an Air Force executive jet while a limited travel budget led Mr. Kantor to sleep in a commercial coach-class seat.
When American trade negotiators planned a trip to Japan last year, a tight budget made them choose between taking a lawyer or a translator. 
 And when the Bush Administration's Agriculture Secretary, Edward R. Madigan, left a working dinner of consomme and finger sandwiches given by the trade representative's office last fall, he complained to reporters: "We've just been treated to an evening repast by U.S.T.R. Now we're going to get something to eat." He added, "U.S.T.R. is a very low-budget operation."
Mr. Madigan was right. At a time when unprecedented emphasis is being given to trade issues, American trade policy is being run on a shoestring.
A growing number of current and former American trade officials say that a too-tight budget and small staff is costing the United States billions of dollars and tens of thousands of American jobs. Yet the Clinton Administration has cut, not added positions, in large part because of squabbles over whether the White House staff, which includes the trade negotiators, has become bloated.
The Office of the United States Trade Representative, the nation's main trade negotiator, has a budget of $20 million and a staff of 157, making it smaller than many international law firms that lobby it. The staff has remained virtually unchanged for five years, even as exports rose 76 percent and accounted for three-quarters of the nation's economic growth during the Bush Administration. The agency is a fraction of the size of the next-largest agencies in the Cabinet, the Office of Management and Budget with 526 employees and the Education Department with 5,079.
Yet Mr. Kantor is the most vocal opponent of expanding his agency. "The answer you're supposed to give in Washington is you want more people, more money," he said in a recent interview. "I'm not sure that's true. I'm not sure that bigger is better."
In fact, Mr. Kantor said he thought the small size made his office more efficient, because every week he was able to see almost everyone who works there.
 
Picking and Choosing Issues
 But some current and former American trade officials, speaking privately, say that tight-fisted approach has hurt the nation because the office deals with matters that invariably are thickets of complicated details.
The small staff forces the agency to pick and choose which foreign trade barriers to challenge, with some matters being postponed for months or years. Some officials also contend that the staff's size has hurt the North American Free Trade Agreement's political prospects, even as the broad effort to win its passage has sucked resources away from other trade disputes in which American businesses are fighting to increase exports.
Joseph Massey, an assistant trade representative in the Bush Administration, said keeping the staff at essentially the same size for five years had also hindered Washington's ability to develop business and consumer allies overseas to put pressure on recalcitrant governments, an approach the Japanese have used with considerable success.
"Our inability to move from the negotiating table, government to government, into the board room to discuss trade did mean that billions of dollars in opportunities didn't get reaped," Mr. Massey said. "You need domestic allies who matter, to get the Government to change its policies."
Michael H. Moskow, who was the deputy United States trade representative for Asia until early this year, said American officials had made such contacts on a few high-profile issues, like computer chips and cars, but lacked the resources on other occasions. With more money and staff, he said, "We would have done more of it, no question."
One reason the trade office is small is that its principal task, as defined by the 1974 Trade Act that elevated the agency to Cabinet level, is to coordinate policy making with other agencies, from which it borrows heavily for expertise.
In addition, the agency has been part of the White House since its creation in 1962, and as such is subject to frequent political squabbles over whether the White House staff and budget have become too large. As part of President Clinton's effort to pare the Federal bureaucracy, the agency eliminated employees through the attrition of 5 of its 162 full-time positions for the fiscal year that began on Oct. 1. As a result, the agency relies increasingly on 21 student interns and 52 officials borrowed from other agencies.
The trade office has taken many steps to stretch its budget. Unlike some Federal agencies, for example, it obtains many airline tickets with the frequent-flyer miles that trade office employees earn on official travel. The trade office's only permanent economist, David Walters, borrows two economists for six months to a year at a time from other agencies, and American University annually sends an undergraduate senior majoring in economics to do part-time statistical analyses.
Yet negotiations on the North American Free Trade Agreement and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade were repeatedly delayed for a few days at a time when the agency ran out of lawyers to put the agreements into legal language, former senior trade officials said. On less important matters, negotiators with little or no legal training sometimes do this work when all lawyers are busy. And at meetings with important trade partners like Japan, the American negotiators are often outnumbered 10 to 1.
Exporters facing trade barriers abroad, particularly small American industries, sometimes have trouble winning assistance or even an audience at the trade office. Much of the agency's Central and South American section, for example, has been working on the North American Free Trade Agreement, leaving them less able to help American companies doing business south of Mexico.
But Mr. Kantor said that if the Central and South American section had more people, they would also be working on the North American agreement. "This is the most important thing we are doing no matter how many people you have," he said. "If we had more, we'd put them all on Nafta."
The practice of borrowing staff members can also leave the office vulnerable, because other agencies can be close to the industries they regulate.
For example, Carla A. Hills, who was President Bush's trade representative, asked the International Trade Commission in January to assess the effect on American consumers of some tariff laws that the commission strongly supported. The commission's response was to raise the possibility of recalling six employees on loan to the trade office.
Mr. Kantor, who inherited the matter from Mrs. Hills, soon agreed to allow more time for the study and to change its scope in a way that could make it less critical of the laws.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

COMPANY: TRADE REPRESENTATIVE, OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRADE REPRESENTATIVE, OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LABOR; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); AIR FORCES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1993



2 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Helmsley Palace Succession: Brunei Royalty Buying Hotel

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
The royal family of Brunei has agreed to buy the New York Palace Hotel on Madison Avenue for $202 million. The luxurious 54-story hotel's previous name, the Helmsley Palace, became a major liability when Leona Helmsley was sentenced to prison in 1989 for tax evasion and mail fraud.
The wealth of the royal family of Brunei, a tiny oil-rich sultanate on the Southeast Asian island of Borneo, is closely controlled by Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah, 46, whose estimated worth of $33 billion makes him one of the world's richest men. He and his family also own the 263-room Beverly Hills Hotel in California, bought for $187 million in 1987, and the Dorchester Hotel in London, bought for about $85 million in 1985. 
 In a striking display of their very different fortunes, the Sultan tipped the staff of the Four Seasons Hotel in Cyprus $170,000 when he checked out last week, just days after Mrs. Helmsley was moved from her prison cell in Danbury, Conn., to a room in a low-cost Manhattan hotel used as a halfway house.
The ownership change for the Palace is subject to approval by a three-member arbitration panel, which could rule on the agreement as early as this week. In July 1992, after accusations of fraud and mismanagement against the Helmsleys by a group of limited partners, who invested $16.8 million when the hotel opened in 1981, the panel appointed a receiver to resuscitate and find a buyer for the money-losing property.
The agreement to buy the Palace is with Amedeo Hotels Limited Partnership, an investment company in Brunei, a country about the size of Delaware with about 400,000 residents. Amedeo was advised and represented in the transaction by Business Advisory Limited, with headquarters in Indonesia and Singapore.
Amedeo's offer for the 1,000-room midtown hotel, directly behind St. Patrick's Cathedral, is considered a bargain price, well below what it might have sold for before its recent troubles. But it was the highest of six offers, according to Thomas Parrington Jr., the court-appointed receiv-er. "My understanding is that they intend to keep the name New York Palace, and keep it a top-line luxury hotel," Mr. Parrington said.
He is the chief financial officer of Interstate Hotels of Pittsburgh, which has managed the Palace for the last 16 months. As part of the transition to its new ownership, Interstate -- which manages about 75 hotels, from economy properties to luxury resorts -- has agreed to continue managing the Palace on a month-to-month basis.
When Interstate took over the Palace, its occupancy rate was below 30 percent, or less than half the industry average, and room rates averaged more than $200 a night. "It was in a financial crisis," Mr. Parrington said. "It was not able to service its debt or the lease payment to the Archdiocese of New York, which owns the land."
To generate cash flow, Interstate slashed rates at the Palace about 40 percent. As a result, Mr. Parrington said, 1993 occupancy is above 70 percent and operating profits have increased 130 percent. Not only is the hotel covering its financial obligations, it has money for capital improvements.
The Palace, considered the most luxurious in the Helmsley real estate empire, was where Mrs. Helmsley styled herself as the "queen" of hoteliers in national advertising campaigns in the 1980's. It has long been at or near the top of popularity polls conducted among European business magazines.
And food critics have praised its Harry's New York Bar for its intimacy and opulent setting, and its gilded Gold Room, where tea is served each afternoon.
But its reputation was tarnished by Mrs. Helmsley's trial and subsequent four-year prison sentence.
In the hopes of restoring its reputation as a top hotel, the Palace recently raised rates 15 percent and has stopped encouraging tour groups.
"From the beginning we felt there was some residual impact on the hotel from what was appearing in the news," Mr. Parrington said. "So one of our first steps was to try to give the hotel a separate identity."
The Sultan of Brunei bought the Beverly Hills Hotel from Marvin Davis, the billionaire oilman, who bought it from Ivan F. Boesky, after Mr. Boesky's $100 million settlement of insider-trading charges and accusations that he had used hotel finances for speculation.
To buy the Dorchester, the Sultan gave a power of attorney to Mohamed al-Fayed, one of three brothers who engineered a $1 billion takeover in 1985 of House of Fraser P.L.C., the owner of Harrods department stores.
A British Government report said the Fayeds had lied about their wealth and background when they made their bid for Fraser, adding that it was likely they used their association with the Sultan to obtain money used for the takeover. The Sultan denied helping the brothers in any way, and they also said they used their own cash.
Before that, the Sultan acquired a 282-foot yacht as collateral for a multimillion-dollar loan to Adnan M. Khashoggi, the Saudi Arabian arms dealer. The yacht -- with a helicopter landing pad, a discotheque, a hospital, sleeping quarters for 52 and 14 fuel tanks to allow it to travel 8,500 miles without refueling -- was sold to Donald J. Trump in 1987 for $30 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The New York Palace Hotel, formerly the Helmsley Palace. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); BORNEO (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); ASIA (90%); INDONESIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK PALACE HOTEL (NYC); HELMSLEY PALACE HOTEL (NYC) FOUR SEASONS HOTELS & RESORTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PALACE HOTEL (NYC); HELMSLEY PALACE HOTEL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRUNEI; NEW YORK CITY BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); BORNEO (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); ASIA (90%); INDONESIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TAXATION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; TAX EVASION ; HOTELS AND MOTELS TAX FRAUD (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TAX LAW (89%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (89%); FAMILY (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (87%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); SENTENCING (77%); LITIGATION (77%); PRISONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); HOTEL STAFF (73%); MAIL FRAUD (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (66%); APPROVALS (66%); EXECUTIVES (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN; HELMSLEY, LEONA; HELMSLEY, HARRY B LEONA MINDY ROSENTHAL HELMSLEY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1993



3 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Ethnic Politics Fall by Wayside In a Miami Race

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 31

 BODY:
In a city where ethnicity and race often count for everything in politics, expectations are being confounded and voting blocs are crumbling as Miami's mayoral contest draws to a close amid a cloud of bilingual invective and mudslinging.
After deciding not to seek another term, Mayor Xavier Suarez has endorsed not a fellow Cuban but one of the last old-time Anglos still active in local politics. 
 On the other hand, several prominent blacks have refused to support the candidacy of the longtime head of the Urban League and are backing a Cuban-American candidate with whom they have often quarreled in the past.
The backdrop to the campaign is an outpouring of alarm about crime, in particular a series of tourist killings that have tarnished the city's image and threatened its economic base. All three major candidates have proposed ways to combat crime, including more police officers on the streets or more money for schools and jobs in poor neighborhoods.
 
Focus on Personalities
 But for the most part, the campaign has focused on personalities rather than issues. All three of the principal candidates are colorful figures who have been fixtures on the local political scene for more than 25 years.
Stephen P. Clark was Mayor in the late 1960's and, with the support of both Mr. Suarez and The Miami Herald, is seeking the job again after 20 years as the elected head of the Dade County government. His two main rivals are City Commissioner Miriam Alonso, a Cuban-American with a reputation for wielding a sharp tongue against opponents, and T. Willard Fair, an outspoken black who heads the local Urban League chapter.
A recent poll showed that although Mr. Clark did not have a majority, he led Mrs. Alonso by more than 10 points and was far ahead of Mr. Fair. If no candidate wins a majority in balloting on Tuesday, the two top finishers will face each other in a runoff a week later.
Five of every eight Miami residents are Hispanic, many of them Cubans, according to the 1990 census. But polls show Mr. Clark, who is 69 years old and does not speak Spanish, ahead of Mrs. Alonso among Hispanic voters under 50 years old, the largest and most important voting group in the city. Over all, Hispanic voters make up about 50 percent of the electorate.
 
Cuba's Role in Campaign
 "No politician in this county is closer to Cubans than I am," Mr. Clark said when asked to account for his strong showing among Hispanic voters. Indeed, Mr. Clark welcomed and assisted the Cuban influx when it began more than 30 years ago, and one of his last official acts as head of Dade County was to sponsor an ordinance this spring that allows the county government to use Spanish as well as English in its official proceedings.
But Mrs. Alonso is urging her fellow Cubans to vote along ethnic lines. On a recent Spanish-language radio program, she acknowledged that some non-Hispanic politicians "were good to us," but argued that "we don't have to be eternally grateful for that favor" because others "walloped us in the head and trampled all over us."
As is always the case in Miami, Cuba itself looms large over the campaign. In her appearances on Spanish-language radio stations, Mrs. Alonso has portrayed herself as tough on Fidel Castro and has argued that at a time when "the tyrant is about to fall" in Havana, only a Cuban-American mayor here is equipped to deal with the aftermath.
After anti-Castro demonstrators clashed early this year with a group that favors lifting the American economic embargo against Cuba, Mrs. Alonso suggested new laws to prohibit pro-Castro groups from demonstrating in public. She has also questioned The Miami Herald's editorial-page endorsement of Mr. Clark by accusing the paper's publisher, David Lawrence Jr., of having made a trip to Cuba "to embrace Fidel Castro and his system."
But Mrs. Alonso's critics among Cuban exiles have questioned her assertions to be staunchly anti-Castro, some even accusing her of collaborating with the Cuban leader. Her husband, Leonel, was a senior Cuban diplomat in the Middle East until the couple defected in the mid-1960's, six years after leading Cuban-Americans here had broken with Havana.
Several publications by Cuban exile groups have recently published a photograph from the early 1960's showing a woman that they say is Mrs. Alonso beaming at Mr. Castro's side. As a result of those and other questions about her political loyalties, some of Mrs. Alonso's campaign billboards have been defaced with the label "Communist."
But this weekend the photographer who took the picture came forward to say Mrs. Alonso is not the woman in the photograph.
Mrs. Alonso, 52, did not respond to requests for interviews, but she has asserted that Mr. Clark and his campaign aides spread the accusations against her. Mr. Clark denies the assertion, and said, on the contrary, that Mrs. Alonso had been smearing him.
"She keeps accusing me of being a thief; I've heard her say this," Mr. Clark said during a rancorous televised debate last week.
Mrs. Alonso retorted: "I have never said the things he said I said. He's lying."
Mr. Fair has described the campaign as "a circus." He said his problem had been to find "how can I rise above this?" Though he has won praise for his efforts to concentrate on issues, he too has a history of using incendiary language against rivals.
He has, for instance, handed out what he calls "Nigger of the Year" awards to prominent local blacks whose views clashed with his. In addition, he angered many other blacks here by refusing to support a boycott of tourism after the City of Miami snubbed Nelson Mandela when the South African black leader visited here. Citing Mr. Mandela's friendship with Mr. Castro, Mrs. Alonso helped lead an effort to prevent any official welcoming of Mr. Mandela.
When Mr. Fair was asked at a public forum last week if his language had been intemperate, he said, "My parents taught us to have the courage of our conviction."

GRAPHIC: Photos: T. Willard Fair, one of three main candidates for mayor of Miami, heads the local Urban League chapter. Miriam Alonso is a Cuban exile with a reputation for wielding a sharp tongue against opponents. Stephen P. Clark, Mayor of Miami in the late 1960's, is seeking the job again. (Photographs by Cindy Karp for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIAMI (FLA) CUBA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MAYORS; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); POLICE ; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LABOR MAYORS (91%); ETHNICITY (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); RELIGION (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (67%); CENSUS (50%); 

PERSON: ALONSO, MIRIAM; FAIR, T WILLARD; CLARK, STEPHEN P; ROHTER, LARRY XAVIER LOUIS SUAREZ (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1993



4 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Controversy Anew at Georgia College

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Oct. 31

 BODY:
A proposal to sell $23 million in tax-exempt bonds and a blizzard of lawsuits and countersuits have once again put a spotlight on a controversial Georgia college that in 15 years of existence has become one of the nation's largest art colleges.
The institution, the Savannah College of Art and Design, asked the Georgia Private Colleges and Universities Authority to approve the bonds so it could refinance loans and renovate four of the historic buildings it owns in downtown Savannah. The state board, which said most requests are routinely approved, approved the application despite critics' accusations that it included false information. The application has been sent to Gov. Zell Miller, whose approval is also necessary. 
 At an Oct. 1 hearing before the board, local business owners and elected officials emphasized the college's economic impact on the city.
"SCAD is helping this state and this community," Mayor Susan Weiner said on a videotape put together by the college. "It's our turn to help them grow in turn."
 
Watchdog's Criticism
 Critics, including former students, teachers and trustees, say the college is little more than a family-run business operating under tax-exempt status that has provided false information to students and to regulatory organizations. In a recent suit, the National Coalition for Universities in the Public Interest, an education watchdog group affiliated with Ralph Nader, characterized the college as a "racketeering" enterprise that has provided false information to the public to keep operating as "a nonprofit corporation for private profit."
"SCAD appears to have misrepresented its stability and financial resources in its efforts to assure the authority of its financial stability," Leonard Minsky, executive director of the Nader affiliate, told the state board. "This application should not be approved."
A spokeswoman for the college, which projects it will double in size to 5,000 students and see its revenues increase to $42 million, from $24 million, over the next five years, calls the accusations "inaccurate and irresponsible."
Founded 15 years ago and run essentially by one family and two longtime associates, the institution is a four-year college of art and architecture that claims an enrollment of 2,500. Its president is Richard Rowan, a former Georgia Department of Education administrator; its provost is Mr. Rowan's wife, Paula, a former Atlanta teacher. Mrs. Rowan's parents, Paul and May Poetter, are comptroller and admissions director, respectively. Mrs. Rowan's sister, Pamela Afifi, is editor of the administration's newspaper.
The college's bond application says that it owns 23 buildings and that its properties represent more than 780,000 square feet of property in Savannah's historic district. Savannah officials like Mrs. Weiner and Joe Mahaney, chairman of the Chatham County Commission, who spoke in favor of the school, cite the college's own estimate that it has a $360 million impact on the local and state economies. The college has also been praised by national experts for its work preserving some of the Federal and Greek Revival buildings in downtown Savannah.
 
A Series of Lawsuits
 But the college has been embroiled in frequent disputes. It was one of three institutions censured this year by the American Association of University Professors, which accused the college of ousting faculty members without cause or due process and cited the dismissal of teachers who had supported a movement to establish a student government.
"It appeared to us this was not an institution that met minimal standards for accreditation," said Lesley Lee Francis, associate secretary of the professors' association.
The college said the association, which is not an accrediting body, has no jurisdiction over the institution. The regional accrediting body, the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, investigated accusations against the college but left its accreditation intact.
During the investigation, the college sued the association, one of many legal actions the institution is involved in. The college itself is being sued by four students who accuse it of attracting them with inflated claims about resources and programs and then defaming them by linking them to a pipe-bomb explosion on campus last year. The college denies the contentions and is countersuing.
The college has also filed suit against the School of Visual Arts, a New York-based institution that is starting a Savannah campus; its president, David Rhodes, and eight former Savannah College of Art and Design teachers, administrators and trustees, accusing them of conspiring to destroy the college's business and reputation.
All have denied the charges and several are countersuing, accusing the college of using malicious litigation to silence critics and help it win approval of the bond issue. In his lawsuit and his statement to the authority, Mr. Minsky, whose group is representing the four students and a former teacher, accuses the college of misrepresenting its curriculum, employment conditions, equipment, buildings and financial practices and of lying on its bond application.
 
'We're Very Comfortable'
 Still, Elizabeth Jick of Oppenheimer & Company, which plans to sell the $23 million bond issue, said, "We're very comfortable with the credit and the people of Savannah College of Art and Design."
The state board forwarded the college's application to Governor Miller with a restriction that the bonds be sold to a single "sophisticated" buyer like an insurance company or venture capital firm that could evaluate any possible risks. The Governor has referred the application to the State Attorney General's office for review.
"We're blissfully ignorant on a lot of things," said Richard Woodward, a lawyer for the board. "But there's nothing wrong with an institutional lender lending to whomever they want to lend. The authority's role as they see it is to make certain that there's full disclosure on SCAD's situation, so the lender, if the issue proceeds, can make their own decision."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GEORGIA COLLEGE OF ART AND DESIGN

ORGANIZATION: GEORGIA COLLEGE OF ART AND DESIGN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS TAX LAW (90%); APPROVALS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); FAMILY COMPANIES (76%); CITIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (63%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; ROWAN, RICHARD RALPH NADER (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1993



5 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: Year of Woman Falters In 2 Races for Governor

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va., Oct. 31

 BODY:
"No one wants a woman to be Governor of Virginia more than I do," says Patricia D. Cornwell, who is better known for her murder mysteries than her politics. But she has another message in this year's campaign for Virginia governor that seems to have a receptive audience with voters.
Though she made a donation to Mary Sue Terry, the Democratic candidate, Ms. Cornwell said she changed her mind after discovering that Ms. Terry was "just another politician." In a television commercial for Ms. Terry's Republican opponent, George F. Allen, the novelist now declares, "I've decided not this woman, not this year." 
 If last year was the much-touted Year of the Woman, this year that theme could be muted. In 1992, record numbers of women were elected to Federal and state offices after campaigns in which many proudly played up their sex. This year, that breakthrough seemed to continue when women were nominated in the nation's only two races for governor, in Virginia and New Jersey. But in both cases, the candidates made no special efforts to win over female voters until recently.
Now, in the closing days, as polls show that each is failing to pick up the support that had been widely expected from women, Ms. Terry and Christine Todd Whitman, the Republican candidate for New Jersey governor, are hurriedly injecting appeals to women at virtually every stop. In both states the support of undecided and independent female voters could hold the key to victory.
 
Change in Tactics
 In Virginia four years ago, L. Douglas Wilder, a Democrat, was narrowly elected Governor with support from the educated, high-income women in Northern Virginia who tend to be swing voters.
So Ms. Terry, who in her previous campaigns for Virginia Attorney General did not make much of her stand on abortion rights, began campaigning last week with Kate Michelman, president of the National Abortion Rights Action League, which was sending out a mass mailing over the weekend on her behalf. "George Allen insults the women of Virginia by saying we don't have the intelligence or the judgment to exercise the right to choose," Ms. Terry declared at a rally the other day.
In New Jersey, Mrs. Whitman is also emphasizing her support for abortion rights as she seeks to close in on Gov. Jim Florio. She has begun adding the phrase, "as the first woman governor of New Jersey," to her speeches. And her campaign blared the Helen Reddy anthem "I Am Woman" at a rally this week.
"What you had is two women running away from their gender in a year after running as a woman created a great deal of interest, excitement and enthusiasm among the voters," said Ruth B. Mandel, director of the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University. "It was a strange decision each of them made, and they may have miscalculated early on, thinking it was dangerous to run as a woman."
Both women may have held back out of fear that stressing women's issues could conflict with their efforts to be strong against crime, a theme frequently used by male candidates. And both have burdened their campaigns by blunders that might make these late pushes irrelevant.
 
Opponents Are Responding
 Still, their male opponents are not sitting still. Mr. Florio and Mr. Allen are emphasizing their records on issues important to women, altering the terms of the debate in the closing days of the campaign. Though polls show Ms. Terry has a higher proportion of support among women than Mr. Allen, the figures are not impressive. And in Mrs. Whitman's case, polls show that she is running behind Mr. Florio in support from women and is drawing more of her support from men.
While they are both women, Ms. Terry and Mrs. Whitman have more differences than similarities in their political situations. Since female voters tend to favor Democrats, Ms. Terry started with an advantage that Mrs. Whitman lacked, particularly since Mr. Allen was not seen as favorable to women's issues. Mrs. Whitman gained little from her support for abortion rights because Mr. Florio also favors the right to abortion without restrictions. Beyond that, he has courted women more directly than Mrs. Whitman has.
Linda DiVall, a Republican pollster, said that Ms. Terry and Mrs. Whitman failed to gain more support from women because in their efforts to come across as serious about issues like crime, they appeared cold to many voters. "Some of the generic strengths that female candidates have working for them is that are perceived to be open and approachable," Ms. DiVall said. "There was a period of time where both the female candidates came across with great intensity, and it is possible that many female voters found it difficult to relate to them."
Even if Ms. Terry and Mrs. Whitman were more appealing on the stump, Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster, said the fact was that many voters had a hard time seeing women as governors. "Gubernatorial races are much more difficult than senatorial races for women," she said. "Voters think that governors are tough executives who have to produce on crime and the economy, and in voters' minds those are harder things for a woman to do."
 
Hesitation by Candidates
 As Mrs. Whitman and Ms. Terry make their pitches to women with new fervor, their male opponents have set out to assure women that there is nothing wrong with voting against a woman.
That is the point of the commercial with Ms. Cornwell, which was produced by Greg Stevens, Mr. Allen's media consultant, as well as another advertisement in which Mr. Allen poses with his wife and children and talks about family, in an unstated contrast to Ms. Terry, who is single.
Mr. Stevens said the Allen campaign had initially been concerned about facing a woman, adding: "Walking into this campaign we were worried that it would be very difficult to win the election because of an advantage with women. The ads were intended to bring a large number of women into believing that this is not a wild-eyed extremely right-wing person, that George Allen is a family guy who cares about the things women do and can be trusted as governor."
Ms. Terry and Mrs. Whitman were probably not inclined at first to play up their sex because neither had built her career fighting for the rights of women. They may have also feared that talking about such matters would interfere with their strategies to come off as tough on crime and as skilled managers. Moreover, they may have figured that as women they would gain from women's issues without an explicit effort.
 
'There's a Lesson There'
 Asked about Ms. Terry's initial reluctance to discuss such issues, Tom King, a consultant in her campaign, said: "She's not going to pretend that she's some radical feminist. That's not Mary Sue. She is who she is."
Harriett Woods, head of the National Women's Political Caucus, which endorsed Ms. Terry and Mrs. Whitman, said both candidates suffered from failing to talk with female voters earlier. "There's a lesson there, of course," she said. "That a woman can't assume she is going to pull out that vote. Even if she has the gender gap, she needs to pull out a strong vote."
Such could have been said for Mrs. Whitman as well, until last week, when she went so far as to attack Mr. Florio as against women. On a flier announcing a forum on Thursday night in which Mrs. Whitman talked about women's issues, the campaign wrote: "Jim Florio believes a woman's place is in the home on Election Day!"
Mr. Florio shot back the same day, calling a news conference with top women in his administration who criticized Mrs. Whitman. One, a aide to the Governor, Brenda Bacon, said, "In the eleventh hour, Mrs. Whitman is trying to assemble large groups of women, and almost shame them into voting for her because she is a woman."
So should Ms. Terry, Mrs. Whitman or both lose, will there be a re-evaluation of all the hoopla over the Year of the Woman? Political professionals hope not.
"Will the headline of 1993 be: 'Year of the White Male?' " Ms. DiVall asked. "I don't think so. People forget that there were a lot of women who lost in 1992."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIRGINIA; NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (98%); VIRGINIA, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN GOVERNORS (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WOMEN (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); ABORTION (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (53%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: TERRY, MARY SUE; ALLEN, GEORGE F; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD; BERKE, RICHARD L CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1993



6 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 CAMPAIGN: The Brain Trust;
Supporting Men Dueling for the Mayor's Office, Two of the Ablest of Political Seconds -- A Campaign Chief Who Has Served In City Hall, Too

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

 BODY:
The side wall of his office tells legions about what drives Bill Lynch.
It is dominated by a large photograph, haunting in the way period war photos of young soldiers tend to be, of the black fighter pilots who fought for their country in World War II in the segregated Tuskeegee unit. Next to the airmen is a portrait of the abolitionist Frederick A. Douglass and his exhortation of 1857, "If there is no struggle, there is no progress." 
 Underneath those photos, Mr. Lynch, the campaign manager who in 1989 helped make David N. Dinkins the first black mayor of New York City, is sitting at a long table, choreographing the final days of Mr. Dinkins's grueling bid for a second term. As Mr. Lynch stares at a proposed schedule, his aides call out the latest offers of help from Democrats around the country.
Representative Joseph P. Kennedy 2d of Massachusetts wanted to come in. Geraldine A. Ferraro was available to campaign all weekend in Queens. Henry G. Cisneros, the Federal Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, was arriving.
 
A Stevie Wonder Call
 "Let's do Cisernos at a public housing project in Queens," Mr. Lynch says, making a snap decision on where his appearance might have the most effect. The phone rings and he grabs it and listens. "What can Stevie Wonder do for us?" he asks aloud.
"Everything," crows a delighted campaign worker.
These final hectic days are the culmination of a more-than-yearlong effort by Mr. Lynch. His days begin with phone calls at 6 and 6:30 A.M., and on early nights he may finish and head home to Harlem at 12:30 A.M.
"I think I've got four days left in me," he sighed on Friday. Even in white shirt, tie and gray slacks, Mr. Lynch, a plump, bearded 52-year-old, manages to look as disheveled as his candidate looks fastidious.
The son of a Long Island potato farmer, he moved to Harlem 24 years ago to work for a job training and policy institute at the City University Graduate Center in midtown. He first showed his political skills in 1975, when he managed Diane Lacey's successful insurgent campaign for Democratic district leader in Central Harlem and the Upper West Side.
Since then the campaigns have kept coming, in between a career that includes periods as a labor organizer and stints in government. He worked on the Presidential campaigns of Senator Edward M. Kennedy in 1980 and the Rev. Jesse Jackson in 1984 and in 1988. His other candidates have included Representative Major Owens of Brooklyn, State Senator David A. Paterson of Manhattan and Mr. Dinkins, who toppled Mayor Edward I. Koch, in the 1989 primary and went on to edge out Rudolph W. Giuliani.
Paradoxically his success at politics is almost a sore point for Mr. Lynch, who notes that he was Mr. Dinkins's chief of staff in the Borough President's office and then a deputy mayor. "I like government also," he protests. "I don't see myself as a professional campaign operative."
For a moment on Friday, he took time to reflect on Mr. Dinkins's four years in office, the recession and budget pressures that left so little room to maneuver, the time it took to learn how to adjust to a government without a Board of Estimate, the violence in Crown Heights in which the Mayor was criticized for seeming not to understand that his police force was not responding sufficiently.
 
Laser Surgery
 Mr. Lynch, who is a diabetic, worked day and night during the four days of strife in Crown Heights, holding community meetings to keep the violence from escalating. Having failed to take sufficient care of himself, he required laser surgery on his eyes afterward. "I thought my eyesight was gone," he said. "I've been at a few tense places. But I'd never been in that kind of tension. I guess because it was our watch, I felt the responsibility."
Even if Mr. Dinkins wins a second term, Mr. Lynch says he will not return to City Hall. His associates expect him to go to South Africa to advise the Afrcian National Congress on elections and the formation of a multiracial government.
But Mr. Lynch is coy about the future. "One of my strong suits has been the inability to do long-range planning," he jokes.
For now, he has one more battle, the Election Day get-out-the-vote effort. "If we can pull out who we want, then I think we can win it," he says. "If we can't, we have a problem."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Lynch, campaign manager for Mayor David N. Dinkins, speaking yesterday with staff members at the campaign headquarters. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS MAYORS (92%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); POLITICS (66%); 

PERSON: LYNCH, BILL; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); MITCHELL, ALISON DAVID PATERSON (79%); TED KENNEDY (72%); JESSE JACKSON (57%); RUDY GIULIANI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1993



7 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: Hanoi Seeking Beverage Curbs

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam Oct. 31

 BODY:
The Prime Minister of Vietnam, Vo Van Kiet, wants to restrict soft-drink and beer imports and will examine new joint-venture proposals to insure adequate domestic investment, the state-owned English-language newspaper Vietnam News has reported.
All new joint ventures in beverages will have to be cleared by the Prime Minister to encourage domestic investment and local production, the daily said, quoting a statement from Mr. Kiet's office. 
 Joint ventures involving foreign brewers and soft-drink companies catering to an increasingly prosperous market of 70 million Vietnamese have grown rapidly in recent years.
Among the companies that have started producing under, or signed agreements for, joint ventures with local companies are Pepsico and Coca-Cola, Carlsberg, Heineken and Schweppes. In the case of American companies, business must await an end to the United States' economic embargo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (56%); PEP (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (94%); VIETNAM (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (56%); PEPSICO INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM VIET NAM (94%); VIETNAM (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); 

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS; BEER; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES JOINT VENTURES (93%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); SOFT DRINK MFG (88%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (88%); BREWERIES (88%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (88%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (88%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (88%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); 

PERSON: VO VAN KIET (PRIME MIN)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1993



8 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 3011 words

HEADLINE: Cultivating the Grass Roots To Reap Legislative Benefits

SERIES: Powerful Persuaders: A Look at Lobbying Tactics -- First of three articles.

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
At first glance, the letters looked innocent enough, just a few dozen pieces of mail among the 1,000 or more that most members of Congress receive every week. But as Sean Cavanaugh, a Congressional aide, read through them, it almost seemed as if vipers were slithering out of the envelopes.
Most of the letters were handwritten, some with the trembling script of the elderly, and they cried out with fear and despair: If Congress approved an obscure proposed change in Medicare policy, "then my husband will die." 
 The aide said he was sickened. After he had read several of the letters, he realized that all were the same.
 
Lobbyists at Work
 "They were just rote language," he said. It was as if someone had advised the writers just what to say. That convinced Mr. Cavanaugh that his boss, Representative Benjamin L. Cardin, was the target of an industry-driven lobbying campaign. And when Mr. Cardin, a Maryland Democrat, had a look, he decided "it was a really nasty, terribly misguided campaign," because the proposed change would actually have little effect on patients.
But the most striking thing about the letters, the Congressman said, was that "I never heard from the people who were really behind them."
His experience is not at all unusual because these days that is how lobbyists work. Gone is the time when back-slapping, cigar-chomping influence peddlers were the main instruments of Washington lobbying.
"The high-profile access merchant has virtually disappeared," said Mark Cowan, who until last month was head of the Jefferson Group, a prominent lobbying firm.
Over the last several years, lobbyists have been turning away from the direct approach in favor of "grass roots" strategies. The goal is to persuade ordinary voters to serve as their advocates, and the letters that arrived in Mr. Cardin's office last summer were one example.
Using the technologies of this electronic age, lobbyists can now quickly reach and recruit thousands of Americans. Many lawmakers say lobbyists have grown so skillful that their tactics have changed the way Congress works.
"Unfortunately it has caused Congress to govern more by fear and an intense desire for simple, easy answers," said Representative Steve Gunderson, Republican of Wisconsin. "Once that grass-roots constituency has been activated, it's impossible ever to explain how proposals might have been changed," or to correct incorrect perceptions. "So we are forced to take complicated issues and simplify them so we can defend our positions."
Not every member thinks it is fair to blame the lobbyists for this. Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, calls that "a cop-out."
"Congress has the responsibility to stand up to that," he says. Blaming lobbyists "is an excuse for a lack of political will."
 
Technology
Quick Satellites, Reams of Faxes
 No matter who is correct, most everyone agrees that the rudimentary grass-roots campaigns of just a few years ago -- fill-in-the-blank post cards, and forms torn out of the newspaper -- have grown far more sophisticated and effective.
"The genie is really out of the bottle now," said Richard Viguerie, whose direct-mail campaigns for conservative causes started the grass-roots movement in 1965. "It's out, and it ain't ever going back -- no matter how hard Congress tries."
To mobilize their members, many trade groups have installed banks of computerized fax machines that can send faxes automatically around the country overnight, instructing each member to ask his employees, customers or others to write or call their congressmen.
The National Association of Manufacturers started a campaign like that last summer that virtually smothered Congress in letters and phone calls opposing President Clinton's proposed energy tax, and as a result the plan was withdrawn.
Other lobbyists now run carefully targeted television advertisements pitching one side of an argument. That approach was used only rarely before now because of the tremendous cost. But once one industry decides it is willing to spend the money, others find they have little choice.
Many of these advertisements end with a toll-free phone number that viewers can call if they find the pitch convincing. New tele-marketing companies answer these calls, and transfer the callers directly to the offices of the appropriate congressmen.
 
Television Appeals
 The American Trucking Association's approach has jumped beyond the fax machine. Until now, the truckers have mobilized their members by sending out hundreds of faxes. The problem was, "some of our members were inundated with so many faxes that they didn't always read them," said Sandy Lynch, an association official.
So this month the truckers began using a new satellite network connecting the Washington headquarters to affiliates in every state. Now, with little notice, Thomas Donohue, president of the association, can appear on television monitors in affiliate offices nationwide and rally his members to action.
To be sure, direct lobbying is not extinct. Washington still has its share of lobbyists from the old school. And many lobbyists still effectively lubricate the system with campaign donations, speaking fees, expense-paid trips and other gifts for lawmakers or their aides.
But even some of the old-style lobbyists are being drawn into the grass- roots movement -- like it or not. Thomas H. Boggs Jr. is considered one of Washington's most influential lobbyists. When lawmakers and others talk about lobbyists of the old school, his name comes up first.
He notes that most Washington lobbying involves issues that are small and technical, though lots of money might be involved. For that, Mr. Boggs says, direct lobbying continues to be effective.
"Where these grass-roots campaigns have been used a lot are the big public policy debates," he said. Even then, Mr. Boggs said he still prefers not to use grass-roots strategies "because the costs are really high."
Nonetheless, more and more often now, he finds he has little choice. "In many cases we do it as a defensive measure," because the other side starts it first.
 
Tactics
Nebulizers: A Strategy Evolves
 Even with the change in strategy, many of the fundamental concerns about lobbyists remain the same. Speaking of his profession, one of the city's senior lobbyists, Jerry Jasinowski of the National Association of Manufacturers, warned of one problem: "Look out for companies or individuals or trade associations that get a small provision into law to serve the interests of a narrow group. That is dangerous."
There could hardly be a more striking illustration than the six-year legislative history of Medicare payment policies for two obscure pieces of medical equipment, nebulizers and aspirators. Together they cost the Federal Government about $120 million last year -- much of it wasted, in the Government's view.
This was the equipment the patients were writing about in the letters to Mr. Cardin. And the story behind them also illustrates the evolution of lobbying strategy, from direct lobbying to grass-roots campaigns.
Nebulizers administer medicine in aerosal form, usually through a mask. Aspirators are small pumps that suck out the fluid that accumulates in the lungs of patients on respirators. And for more than 20 years, Medicare offered indefinite reimbursement for patients who rented them. The problem was that many patients used them for years, so the Government ended up spending so much on rent that the devices could have been purchased many times over.
In 1987, Congress tried to solve this by establishing a list of equipment that could be rented for only 12 months, after which it had to be purchased. At the time, Thomas Antone was president of the National Association of Medical Equipment Suppliers, the trade group representing the companies that rent and maintain the equipment.
"Senators and congressmen don't know much about this," Mr. Antone observed. And as he recalled, he and the Congressional aides agreed that the new regulation ought to include an exception for equipment that needed frequent or substantial service. That equipment would continue to be rented.
When the bill went to a Senate-House conference committee, Mr. Antone recalls, some conferees decided they wanted the bill's language to include a couple of specific examples of equipment that might require frequent service. And when the bill left the committee, the conferees had cited nebulizers and aspirators.
Mr. Antone says he does not know how that happened. But Charles Spalding, chief of the Medical Services Payments branch at the Health Care Finance Administration, said, "The industry proposed it."
Since that time, however, the Government has learned that the devices generally need little if any significant service. And yet, Mr. Spalding said, "some folks with chronic conditions have to pay $30 or $40 a month more or less indefinitely" in copayments to rent a nebulizer or aspirator, even though "a common purchase price for one is $200 to $250."
Last year the Government spent $120 million reimbursing Medicare patients for the rental of just these two devices. But this summer, Congress set out to remove both of them from the frequent servicing category.
 
'Constant Stream' of Faxes
 While the change was still being debated, Deborah Harnsberger, a lobbyist with the equipment suppliers group, said the industry's position was that aspirators should not be removed from the rental list. Some nebulizers could be moved, she added, while some others should not.
And to make that point, she said, "we are using grass roots as part and parcel of what we are doing. A constant stream of faxes and phone calls is going from here to our members."
In the end, the trade group won a partial victory. Congress left it up to the Health and Human Resources Department to decide whether nebulizers and aspirators should be rented or purchased -- giving the industry another opportunity to make its case.
At the same time, Corine Parver, president of the lobbying group, disavows the letters to Mr. Cardin.
"We don't engage in that kind of lobbying" using patients, she said, suggesting that it was probably the work of an overzealous affiliate of the trade group who took grass-roots lobbying to an unethical extreme.
 
The Change
'Super-Lobbyists' On the Bandwagon
 Some lobbyists can point to the moment when their profession began taking its new path: March 3, 1986. That's the day Time magazine published a photo on its cover of the lobbyist and former Reagan aide Michael Deaver in the backseat of his limousine talking on the phone. The headline asked: "Who's this man calling?"
Right away the photo sparked new convulsions of concern about high-power "super-lobbyists."
"That was the line of demarcation," Mr. Cowan says now.
Unfavorable publicity along with changing social and political attitudes and stricter conflict-of-interest laws began making it more difficult for high-profile lobbyists like Mr. Deaver to be effective. And at about the same time, lobbyists began to notice that labor unions and so-called public interest groups, like Ralph Nader's Public Citizen, were using a different approach.
These groups generally did not have super-lobbyists. So when they wanted to influence policy, they used what they called their "grass-roots" networks. This meant getting their members around the country to tell Washington how they felt.
In the mid-1980's, one lobbyist, Jack Bonner, said he and others in his field began to see "that certain groups were doing this very well -- unions, environmental groups, consumer groups -- while business was doing it rather poorly." Fewer than 5 percent of the Fortune 500 companies were using grass-roots lobbying, Mr. Bonner found. So he and others adopted the practice and began trying to improve on it.
The difference was that corporate lobbyists had more money to throw behind the effort. And with the added resources, they were able to take advantage of the latest technology. As their strategies grow ever more elaborate, some of the original grass-roots lobbyists worry that they can no longer keep up.
"These developing technologies -- like computerized grass roots -- combined with enormous resources, are overwhelming the system," complained Fred Wertheimer, head of Common Cause, one of the first organizations to use modern grass-roots lobbying. "It gives these organizations special advantage. And it's gotten to the point where the Government is no longer capable of dealing with it."
 
Defense
Lobbyists' Version Of a White Knight
 Most lobbyists will quickly acknowledge that their profession still has an unsavory reputation. The public "thinks we are a small group, in Gucci shoes, somehow controlling issues in a way that is at variance with the the public interest," Mr. Jasinowki said.
Most lobbyists are not likely to describe themselves as altruistic servants of the public good. But they say the public is unfairly disdainful of them.
"The average person forgets that they have lobbyists too," said Richard H. Kimberly, president of the American League of Lobbyists. "Maybe they go to church. Well, churches lobby. Maybe they are retired. Well, the retired people have a lobby. But instead, when people think of lobbyists they think of organizations like the N.R.A.," the National Rifle Association.
Fair enough, but do any of the corporate and commercial lobbyists that are so often the target of complaint actually perform work they are proud of? Mr. Kimberly said he would try to find a lobbyist who was working on a campaign that the public might admire.
Ten days later, he said he was having a hard time finding anyone willing to step forward. But he did point to Casey Dinges, the lobbyist for the American Society of Civil Engineers.
Mr. Dinges said his organization discovered last fall that the Department of Housing and Urban Development was about to propose a new standard for the construction of mobile homes. After Hurricane Andrew destroyed thousands of trailers in South Florida in August 1992, the Government decided the building standards were inadequate. So Mr. Dinges's organization drafted a detailed new standard and lobbied the Government to adopt it.
"Just because someone lives in a mobile home, why can't they be safe?" Mr. Dinges asked. Besides, he said, when inadequate building standards cause problems, "our members are the ones who have to clean the stuff up."
HUD decided to adopt the engineers' standard; a senior Federal official said the department considered it "rigorous and complete." But as soon as HUD announced its decision, one lobbyist's proud victory became another's desperate battle.
And so the grass roots came into play. The Manufactured Housing Institute, representing mobile home manufacturers, unleashed a furious lobbying campaign to defeat the engineers' proposal. The lobby argued that the engineers' standard would raise trailer prices in some areas by as much as 36 percent. Bruce Savage, spokesman for the group, said: "It may be nice to have a 'safe' home. But if no one is buying them, what's the point?"
When the department asked for public comment on the proposed new standard this summer, the manufacturers "contacted all our members on our grass-roots network," Mr. Savage said. HUD was flooded with a thousand letters of complaints.
The department will not make its final ruling until later this autumn, and so the lobbying continues. But for now, the engineers' proposal is still on the table.
Next: Lobbying by foreign interests.
 
 
 
PRESIDENTS ON LOBBYISTS: NO LOVE LOST
"There are two methods of curing the mischiefs of faction, one by removing its causes, two by controlling its effects. By a faction, I understand a number of citizens, whether amounting to a majority or a minority of the whole, who are united and actuated by some common impulse of passion, or of interest, adverse to the rights of other citizens, or to the permanent and aggregate interests of the community."
 -- James Madison, in the Federalist Papers of the 1780's
 
"The host of contractors, speculators, stockjobbers and lobby members which haunt the halls of Congress, all deserious to get their arm into the public treasury, are sufficient to alarm every friend of his country. Their progress must be stopped."
 -- James Buchanan, writing to Franklin Pierce in 1852, before either man had served as President
 
"I think that the public ought to know the extraordinary exertions being made by the lobby in Washington" for a pending tariff bill. Washington is so full of lobbyists that "a brick couldn't be thrown without hitting one. It is of serious interest to the country that the people at large should have no lobby and be voiceless in these matters, while great bodies of astute men seek to create an artificial opinion and to overcome the interests of the public for their private profit. It is thoroughly worth the while of the people of this country to take knowledge of this matter. Only public opinion can check and destroy it."
 -- Woodrow Wilson, speaking at a news conference in 1913
 
"By virtue of their wealth and freedom from regulation, some lobbies can threaten to or actually unleash almost unlimited television and direct-mail assaults on uncooperative legislators. At the same time they can legally reward those who do their bidding. The lobbies are a growing menace to our system of government."
 -- Jimmy Carter, from his memoir, 'Keeping Faith'
 
"Wihin minutes of the time I conclude my address to Congress Wednesday night, the special interests will be out in force. Those who profited from the status quo will oppose changes we seek -- the budget cuts, the revenue increases, the new investment priorities. Every step of the way they'll oppose it. Many have already lined the corridors of power with high-priced lobbyists."
 -- President Clinton as he released his economic plan on Feb. 15

GRAPHIC: Photos: The American Trucking Association now uses a satellite network to advise its affiliates nationwide when and how to lobby legislators. Representative J. Roy Rowland of Georgia, was prepared for an interview with Thomas Donohue, president of A.T.A., back to camera. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times); To receive the trucking association's lobbying messages, a satellite dish was installed at Cedar Rapids Steel Transport in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. (Todd McInturf for The New York Times)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (87%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); IOWA, USA (87%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; SURVEYS AND SERIES; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MEDICARE (76%); WRITERS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); POLITICS (67%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, JOEL BEN CARDIN (77%); CARL LEVIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1993



9 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: East China Sea Opened to Oil Exploration

BYLINE: By JOSHUA MILLS

 BODY:
Chevron, Texaco and two foreign oil companies have signed contracts with the Chinese Government to begin exploration in the East China Sea, opening another front in China's search for oil for its booming economy.
In a contract signed Friday and announced yesterday in Beijing, Chevron Overseas Petroleum Ltd., a subsidiary of the Chevron Corporation, was granted a seven-year contract to explore for crude oil and natural gas in a 700-square-mile area southeast of Shanghai. Terms were not disclosed, and a Chevron Overseas spokeswoman, Pam Low, declined to place a dollar value on Chevron's commitment. 
 On Thursday, Texaco Inc., AGIP Petroli S.p.A. of Italy and Maersk Oil China A.S. of Denmark signed a contract to explore an area about four times as large as the Chevron region.
Telephone calls to Texaco's headquarters were not answered yesterday; a news release handed out at the signing in Beijing estimated that exploration would cost at least $100 million in the first three years.
Pumping oil from its own land and waters, China has become the fifth-largest producer in the world. It is expected to agree soon to additional exploration by other foreign companies.
For years China has licensed foreign companies to develop oilfields in the South China Sea, off its coast between Hong Kong and Vietnam, in return for a share of the profits. But the search for oil in the East China Sea, while discussed for years, is only now beginning.
The East China Sea is ringed by South Korea, Japan, Okinawa and Taiwan. China has asserted for years that the continental shelf under the sea is an extension of the Chinese mainland, while other governments in the region have continued to insist that they have rights in the areas closest to them.
In recent years China has been able to meet its own energy needs. But oil consumption has been growing faster in much of East Asia than in other parts of the world and by next year, China -- whose economy has been growing about 12 percent a year -- is widely expected to need imports.
 
Incentive to Find Oil
 That gives it a heightened incentive to find oil. Earlier this year, it agreed to allow foreign companies to explore for oil in the Tarim Basin, in the far west of the country.
Chevron, based in San Francisco, has been one of the most active American companies in China, with numerous operations in the South China Sea through its participation in a partnership with Texaco, AGIP and the Chinese National Offshore Oil Corporation. The partnership drilled its first wells in October 1984, near the mouth of the Pearl River in the South China Sea, and brought its first oilfield into production in 1990.
Chevron is also a 50-50 partner with Texaco in the Caltex Petroleum Corporation, which sells gasoline at the retail level and produces motor oil.
 
Shanghai Office to Be Opened
 Chevron said it hoped to begin exploration early next year and was opening a Shanghai office to handle operations. It said that Len Bzdel, who has worked in its Canadian and Albanian operations, would direct the East China Sea project.
The Chevron contract was signed by Wang Yan, president of the Chinese National Offshore Oil Corporation, and Richard Matzke, his counterpart at Chevron Overseas.
"We are favorably impressed with the geological prospects of the area," Mr. Matzke said in a statement.

GRAPHIC: Map of China showing location of the proposed drilling area. (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (96%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA SEA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (93%); EAST CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP; TEXACO INC; AGIP PETROLI SPA; MAERSK OIL CHINA AS CHEVRON CORP (96%); AGIP SPA (70%); CALTEX PETROLEUM CORP (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHEVRON CORP; TEXACO INC; AGIP PETROLI SPA; MAERSK OIL CHINA AS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; EAST CHINA SEA CHINA (96%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); EAST CHINA SEA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (93%); EAST CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL); EXPLORATION OF RESOURCES; OFFSHORE EXPLORATION AND INSTALLATIONS OIL EXPLORATION (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM LUBRICANTS MFG (79%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); CONSUMPTION (72%); 

PERSON: MILLS, JOSHUA RICHARD H MATZKE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1993



10 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 CAMPAIGN: New Jersey;
New Jersey Governor's Race Is Watched for Political Message

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
With several polls suggesting that a significant number of voters remained undecided, Gov. Jim Florio and his Republican rival, Christine Todd Whitman, spent the last weekend before Election Day campaigning at events from a mall tour to a children's Halloween party and enlisting a string of big-name supporters to help make their cases.
Still, the polls showed a clear lead for the Governor, a politician written off as dead less than two years ago. The good news for Mrs. Whitman, who if elected would be the first woman to govern New Jersey, was her narrowing of the gap since earlier surveys. 
 The outcome of Tuesday's vote will resonate far beyond New Jersey's borders, in large part because of controversial moves that Mr. Florio made early in his administration: a record tax increase that has become his political Achilles' heel and a tough gun law that has become his strongest political weapon.
 
'A Huge Signal Across the Country'
 "What you do Tuesday will send a huge signal across the country," Hillary Rodham Clinton said at a Women for Florio rally in Fairfield on Saturday, as she stumped for the Governor for the second time in eight days. "I cannot overstate how important this is, to stand by a Governor who has not flinched."
The Rev. Jesse Jackson carried a similar message for Mr. Florio to urban, largely black gatherings this weekend at stops in East Orange, Newark and Jersey City, a traditionally Democratic town that in a stunning vote earlier this year elected a Republican and ardent Whitman supporter, Bret Schundler, as its mayor.
Mrs. Whitman spent the weekend crisscrossing the state aboard her campaign bus, stopping at diners, a farmer's market, Republican rallies and a shopping mall in Menlo Park, where she gave her own vision of the election message. "If New Jersey elects me, the message is going to be that taxpayers have had enough," she said.
She, too, recruited well-known political names to help her cause.
She began running a new advertisement this weekend that featured former Gov. Thomas H. Kean, who defeated Mr. Florio in 1981 by the closest margin in state history. Mr. Kean served two terms and left office as one of the most popular politicians in the state's modern history, a status he still enjoys.
Today, Mrs. Whitman brought in Bob Dole of Kansas, the Senate Republican minority leader, for the second time since the primary.
"This election will be heard all the way to the White House and they have a little hearing problem there," Mr. Dole told about 250 Republicans from Bergen, Essex and Passaic counties at a rally at the Chandelier Restaurant in Belleville.
At stake in the election Tuesday is one of the most powerful governorships in the nation.
 
Appoints Most Everybody
 The Governor is the only elected state officer in New Jersey, and subject to the consent of the Senate, appoints all the heads of state departments, all the judges of the state courts, including the Supreme Court, and members to all intrastate and bistate authorities and commissions. In addition, the Governor has three different types of vetoes.
But the next Governor of New Jersey will face daunting and perplexing problems -- issues that both Mr. Florio and Mrs. Whitman have skirted throughout the campaign.
The state is facing a potential budget shortfall of $1 billion to $2 billion, a problem that the next Governor must deal with within weeks of taking office. But both major-party candidates have gone out of their way to avoid discussing the issue. Both have refused to take a 'no new taxes' pledge.
Mr. Florio has already faced similar, though much less severe, fiscal problems. Required by the state Constitution to present a balanced budget, he did so with his first budget by raising taxes. The last two years, he has balanced the budget by selling a state highway, refinancing bonds and diverting payments from the state's pension system. The Governor has declined to say how he would address the financial problems for fiscal year 1994, which begins next July 1.
 
30-Percent Tax-Cut Plan
 Mrs. Whitman has said she would cut the size of government and its spending to close any budget gap, but she has failed to give specifics. She has also said that her economic plan, which includes a 30-percent income-tax cut for some taxpayers over the next three years, would spur the economy and increase revenues.
Another vexing problem is the state's system of financing its public schools, which is under a legal cloud. For the second time in four years, there is a case pending before the State Supreme Court that could cost the state hundreds of millions of dollars to close the spending gap between the wealthier and poorer school districts.
Nor have these issues led to much debate in legislative races, although all 120 seats are up for election.
Mrs. Whitman began her race for the State House with a pristine political image -- building on a surprisingly strong showing in a 1990 race against the incumbent Democratic Senator, Bill Bradley. But Mr. Florio has campaigned relentlessly and with some success to replace her image with one of a candidate whose immense wealth has put her out of touch with the typical voter and who cannot be trusted to lead wisely.
 
Florio Survives Tax Issue
 And whether through the strengths of his campaign or weaknesses in Mrs. Whitman's, Mr. Florio is surviving the issue of taxes that political wisdom once said had destroyed him.
Within six months of taking office in 1990, after campaigning on a pledge not to raise taxes, Mr. Florio pushed through a $2.8 billion tax package, the largest in the state's history. Other governors, including Mario M. Cuomo of New York and Lowell P. Weicker Jr. of Connecticut, soon followed that move. Mr. Florio is the first of those tax-raising governors to stand for re-election and his fate is being watched by leaders nationwide, including President Bill Clinton, who have either raised taxes themselves or are contemplating it.
Mr. Florio also gained national attention by taking on the powerful gun lobby, led by the National Rifle Association, with his law banning the sale and ownership of semiautomatic weapons in New Jersey.
Three newspaper polls released today show that after six months of campaigning, ending with a flurry of broadcast ads and dawn-to-dusk tours of the state, neither Mr. Florio nor Mrs. Whitman will face Election Day without anxiety.
 
One Poll Has Dead Heat
 A Star-Ledger/Eagleton Poll shows Mr. Florio with a 9 percentage point lead (48 percent to 39 percent) over Mrs. Whitman, and a poll by The Record of Hackensack shows a 10-point spread (51 percent to 41 percent) by the Governor. But the third poll, by The Asbury Park Press, has the race a dead heat, with the candidates pulling 38 percent each.
A trend in recent years may help Mrs. Whitman: in highly charged races between incumbents and more conservative challengers, the conservatives often do better than the polls predict, presumably because most of the 'no comments' or 'undecideds' vote for the conservative.
Experts say they expect about 56 percent of the 3.9 million registered voters -- a record for a gubernatorial election -- will vote on Tuesday. Democrats outnumber Republicans 1,146,117 (29.2 percent) to 857,244 (21.9 percent), but undeclared voters are the largest bloc at 1,909,421 (48.7 percent). There are 6,985 registered voters (0.2 percent) in New Jersey listed as "other," a category that includes third-party affiliations.
There are 17 independent or third-party candidates on Tuesday's ballot, none of whom who are expected to influence the outcome of the race.
Both Mr. Florio, 56, and Mrs. Whitman, 47, are of prime political age. But a loss on Tuesday is likely to end either's chances of gaining a high elected office again.
 
'Winning Is Better'
 "I have been in elections in which I've won; I've been in elections in which I lost," Mr. Florio said a week ago during the last of three televised debates with Mrs. Whitman, when he was asked about the possibility of losing. "It's sort of like Sophie Tucker: I've been rich and poor; winning is better."
For Mrs. Whitman, a loss on Tuesday in a second high-profile race would eclipse the political good will that she gained even in defeat two years ago.
"If I were not to be elected, although I think I will be, I am going to stay in this state and stay active in this state and stay involved in the issues that are important to the state that I love," Mrs. Whitman said last week, answering the same question that was put to Mr. Florio. "I believe in this state there are a lot of ways that you can contribute and I will continue to contribute to the state."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Supporters of Gov. Jim Florio reacted to his campaign speech yesterday at Livingston College. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B7); Gov. Jim Florio with his wife, Lucinda, and an unidentifed young girl at Livingston College. At rear was Senator Bill Bradley. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times); Christine Todd Whitman campaigned outside Giants Stadium during the Jets-Giants game. Senator Bob Dole was at the rear. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Graphs: "Governor's Race: Recent Polls" shows results of several polls on the race for New Jersey Governor. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: IPRINT TECHNOLOGIES INC (MENLO PARK, CA) (53%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK JETS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK JETS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); KANSAS, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MAYORS (77%); WOMEN (75%); TAX LAW (73%); HISTORY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); RESTAURANTS (63%); HALLOWEEN (57%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); GRAY, JERRY HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1993



11 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Treasury to Auction Only Bills This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week is confined to the regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills today.
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, traders said the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 3.02 percent, and the rate on the six-month issue was 3.16 percent. 
 Other transactions this week will include a $1.55 billion bond sale by the Federal National Mortgage Association, which is expected to be priced tomorrow in two parts through various securities dealers.
The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
TUESDAY
Elizabethtown Water, $50 million in debentures due in 2028, A-3/A/--. Competitive.
GTE North Inc., $250 million in debentures due in 1999, A-1/AA-/AA. Competitive.
 
WEDNESDAY
Gulf Power, $15 million of adjustable-rate preferred, A-2/A-/A-. Competitive.
Norfolk Southern Railway Co., $38.55 million in serial equipment certificates due from 1994 to 2008, Aaa/AAA/--. Competitive.
Southern California Gas, $175 million of first-mortgage bonds due in 2025, A-2/A+/A+. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Abbey Healthcare Group, $150 million of senior subordinated notes due in 2002. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Armco Inc., $125 million in senior notes due in 2000, B-1/B/B+. Salomon Brothers.
Hallmark Healthcare Corp., $80 million of senior notes due in 2003, rated B- by S.& P. Smith Barney Shearson.
Reliance Group Holdings Inc., $650 million of debt securities in two parts: $300 million of senior notes due in 2000, and $350 million of senior subordinated notes due in 2003. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Source: MCM CorporateWatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Corp.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, $627.4 million of electric plant refunding revenue bonds. Competitive.
 
WEDNESDAY
University of California, $190.5 million of certificates of participation. Competitive.
 
THURSDAY
Salem County (N.J.) Pollution Control Finance, $430.4 million of refunding revenue bonds. Competitive.
Virginia Public Building Authority, $50.9 million of refunding revenue bonds. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Alaska Housing Finance Corp., $146.9 million of general purpose housing bonds. Dean Witter Reynolds.
Connecticut Health and Education Facilities Authority, $75 million of revenue bonds for St. Raphael's Hospital. Merrill Lynch.
Connecticut Health and Education Facilities Authority, $60 million of revenue bonds for Lawrence Memorial Hospital. Paine Webber.
Emery County, Utah, $71.2 million of pollution control refunding revenue bonds for Pacificorp projects. Dean Witter Reynolds.
Delaware Housing Authority, $67 million of revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.
Lafayette Louisiana Public Power Authority, $90 million of revenue bonds. Smith Barney Shearson.
Marshall County, W. Va., $50 million of pollution-control revenue bonds for the Ohio Power Co. Kammer plant project. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Massachusetts Health and Education Facilities Authority, $130 million of revenue bonds for Boston College. Goldman, Sachs.
Orlando-Orange County (Fla.) Expressway Authority, $200 million of junior lien refunding revenue bonds. Paine Webber.
Sioux City, Iowa, and Michigan State Hospital Finance Authority, $189 million of refunding revenue bonds for Sisters of Mercy Health Corp. Goldman, Sachs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: DUF (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (71%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (71%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (69%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (69%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (66%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (66%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (66%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (64%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (64%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); NAICS541219 OTHER ACCOUNTING SERVICES (64%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (64%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (56%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); SIC4939 COMBINATION UTILITIES, NEC (56%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS621610 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (55%); SIC8082 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); UTAH, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (71%); NORFOLK SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO (69%); VERIZON NORTH INC (69%); HALLMARK HEALTHCARE CORP (66%); RELIANCE GROUP HOLDINGS INC (66%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (64%); DUFF & PHELPS CORP (64%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (64%); LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT OF WATER & POWER (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); PACIFICORP (56%); APRIA HEALTHCARE GROUP INC (55%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (54%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); UTAH, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; CORPORATE BONDS BONDS (93%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); HEALTH CARE (86%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (76%); CORPORATE BONDS (76%); TAX LAW (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (74%); POWER PLANTS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1993



12 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1678 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Daily News Is Turning a Gamble Into a Rebirth

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON

 BODY:
The Daily News, bankrupt and battered when Mortimer B. Zuckerman bought it last January, is now a profitable business, its publishers say, reversing multimillion-dollar losses and defying predictions of doom that plagued the New York newspaper for a decade.
About a hundred newly hired writers and editors are settling in. Advertising revenues are climbing, the publishers say. And the newspaper's pages are beginning to show some of their old zip. In effect, the owners are betting millions of dollars that the cheeky but rigorous style of tabloid journalism that The News virtually invented can thrive again in America's biggest city. 
 The bet appears to be paying off.
The signs of rebirth at what is still, by far, New York City's largest-circulation tabloid newspaper have some in the newspaper industry saying that Mr. Zuckerman's News is likely to be a powerful contestant in a new tabloid war.
"The News right now has more going for it than the others," said Gerald D. Reilly, a newspaper broker and financial consultant who has followed the New York City newspaper battles for decades. "Ultimately, Zuckerman may be the one who survives."
The News has recently been selling about 775,000 copies a day. While that is less than a third of its 2.4 million circulation in 1947, it is almost double that of The New York Post, its closest tabloid competitor. The Post sells about 400,000 copies a day, and New York Newsday about 270,000, newspaper executives said.
 
Predictions of Profit
 Fred Drasner, Mr. Zuckerman's co-publisher and owner of a minority share of The News, said in an interview that the newspaper would be "substantially profitable this year." Some newspaper industry executives said The News, which lost about $100 million over the last 10 years, could make a profit this year, perhaps as much as $10 million. Mr. Reilly said he thought the newspaper had become profitable, but perhaps not at that level.
Because The News is privately owned, its profits do not have to be reported and cannot be verified.
The New York Post has cut its annual losses to about $6 million, executives of the newspaper said. New York Newsday loses $8 million to $14 million a year, Newsday's publisher, Robert M. Johnson, said recently.
Advertising revenue at The News is up more than 6 percent compared with year-earlier levels, News executives say, though they do not give figures. The newspaper has cut labor, newsprint and other costs.
"We are committed to making this a first-rate paper," Mr. Zuckerman said in an interview. "You can't do that unless the paper is profitable and economically viable. The paper is economically viable."
By all accounts, The News has a long way to go in its rebuilding. It is searching for a distinctive voice, it must build a new $135 million color printing plant, and it is still weakened by years of troubles that included a bitter five-month strike in 1990-91 against the Tribune Company of Chicago, then the newspaper's owner.
Many of the business challenges that weakened The News in the first place have remained. Newspaper readership has been in decline nationally for decades and many of The News's loyal readers moved to the suburbs from working-class city neighborhoods that were traditional News strongholds.
And as News management digs in for the war of the tabloids, it does not know how much money Rupert Murdoch, who controls The Post, and the Times Mirror Company, which owns New York Newsday, are prepared to pour into the battle.
But inside The News, reporters, editors and business employees say that for the first time in a dozen years, they feel that they are part of an enterprise with a future. And outside The News's 42nd Street headquarters, the newspaper is beginning to attract attention again.
 
A Sharper Focus
 For the first six months of Mr. Zuckerman's ownership, the newspaper appeared to drift under his first editor, Lou Colasuonno. In July, Mr. Zuckerman installed a new editor in chief, Martin Dunn, above Mr. Colasuonno, in what some at The News said was already a top-heavy newsroom.
Mr. Dunn, who is British and the former editor of a Murdoch tabloid in London, has so far received high marks for unifying the staff and focusing the paper on the kinds of issue-oriented, snappily presented articles that were once typical of The News.
One of Mr. Dunn's early ideas resulted in "The Strippers," the newspaper's front-page article on a Sunday last month. The News had bought a 1985 Honda, parked it on a New York City street, and had its photographers watch. By the fourth day of the vigil, car strippers had reduced it to a bucket of bolts that was a "curbside blight and barely resembling a vehicle."
That, Mr. Dunn said, was the kind of "hey, Mabel" article (as in "Hey, Mabel, look at this!") that The News must present.
For the first time in a long time, News readers are beginning to find a regular mix of the humor and outrage that are the hallmarks of tabloid journalism. Last week, Larry Sutton, a writer, described what Leona Helmsley, the hotel executive who was convicted of tax evasion, would find in her new quarters at the Marquis Hotel halfway house. The account on the "new digs" of the "hotel queen" included a chart comparing the halfway house ("bathroom: yes; amenities: none") with the plush New York Palace that she used to run.
Last month, a News reporter, Annette Fuentes, wrote "Separated at Birth," an account of "de facto segregation" in the maternity wards of Mount Sinai Medical Center. The article drew wide attention.
"We still are the dominant tabloid paper," Mr. Dunn said, "We have to, really, by sheer force of journalism, impose ourselves back on the New York market."
 
New Money, New Sections
 Mr. Zuckerman and Mr. Drasner have added new sections and pages for news, sports and cultural coverage and have hired new television and movie reviewers. The newspaper has started a full-color television guide on Sunday and, it says, has spent $3 million to promote it. Yesterday, The News began offering the syndicated magazine, USA Weekend.
Some News veterans say the burst of investment has helped Mr. Zuckerman and Mr. Drasner win over employees. "You see money being put in," said Arthur Browne, a veteran News reporter and editor who is now the editorial page editor. "That tells the staff: 'They're interested. They're not just here to play around.' "
Not everyone at The News is happy. Some News veterans say the publishers have appeared more interested in hiring gossip columnists and getting glitzy Hollywood coverage than in focusing on serious news.
Last summer, one of the newspaper's most respected reporters, Lars-Erik Nelson, who was the Washington bureau chief, defected to Newsday. The move was a serious blow to The News because it was widely known that Mr. Nelson complained bitterly to Mr. Zuckerman about what he called a lack of emphasis on rebuilding news coverage.
The News was also hurt when Mike McAlary, one of the best-known New York columnists, tried to break his contract with Mr. Zuckerman to join Mr. Murdoch's Post during the summer. That fight was being waged in court when Mr. McAlary was sidelined by an automobile accident in September. He is now recovering and is expected to return to writing, although it is not clear where.
Despite such setbacks, Mr. Zuckerman appeared to feel vindicated by the progress at The News as he sat the other day with the telephone ringing off the hook in his midtown office. "Just look at the results," he said.
During his bitter fight to win The News a year ago, Mr. Zuckerman, who is estimated to have made $300 million in the real estate business, often appeared offended by suggestions that he was something of a journalistic dilettante who would be overwhelmed by the complexities of a big-city daily.
"I appreciate all the doubting Thomases," Mr. Zuckerman said in an interview last week. "What I'm always astounded by is that just because I have had some business success, people assume you do not have intellectual interests and intellectual capabilities."
People at The News say Mr. Zuckerman is deeply involved in news and editorial decisions, personally hiring editors at all levels and pressing his views about coverage, story presentation and editorials.
But everyone, including Mr. Zuckerman, credits much of the business progress to Mr. Drasner, an authentic new New York City personality. Mr. Drasner, 50, is a tough former real estate and tax lawyer who chews on big cigars and favors blunt talk.
 
'Mr. Inside'
 Mr. Drasner generally leaves the public policy and journalism to Mr. Zuckerman. But at The News, it is Mr. Drasner, the "Mr. Inside" of the pair, who is clearly in charge of the business operation. And the message, often delivered with biting sarcasm, is: win or die, and don't take any time off in the process.
Mr. Drasner recently razzed his top deputy, Ira Ellenthal, about Mr. Ellenthal's desire to take a week's vacation. Mr. Ellenthal, The News's associate publisher, went anyway. He returned to find a new person at his desk and the nameplate on his office door changed. The new occupant turned out to be an actor hired by Mr. Drasner in an elaborate practical joke that played off Mr. Drasner's reputation as a relentless boss.
Mr. Ellenthal was unfazed. In the spirit that Mr. Drasner sets at The News, Mr. Ellenthal has his own somewhat competitive sign hanging on the wall of his office. It is a picture of Mr. Drasner with the following printed underneath: "1943-Soon."
But it is clear that, for now, Mr. Drasner's approach to reviving The News is working. The other day, Mr. Ellenthal was pleased to point out two pages in the television magazine to a visitor in Mr. Drasner's office.
The News, long starved of national advertising and never an important ad venue for high-cost items, had won a full-color, two-page Cadillac ad.
"There's a Cadillac ad in The Daily News," Mr. Drasner said proudly. It was a businessman's way of saying The Daily News had come a long way.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mortimer B. Zuckerman, left, who took over a Daily News awash in red ink, said in an interview that the newspaper was now "economically viable." Fred Drasner, right, co-publisher and owner of a minority share of The News, said the newspaper would be "substantially profitable this year." (Ed Quinn for The New York Times) (pg. D1); Martin Dunn, editor in chief of The Daily News, has received high marks for unifying the staff and focusing the paper on the kinds of issue-oriented, snappily presented articles once typical of The News. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. D6)
 
Graph: "The End of the Slide?" shows the average daily circulation of The Daily News from 1920-1990. (Sources: Newspaper Association of America; Audit Bureau of Circulations; The Daily News) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK DAILY NEWS NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (91%); NEWSDAY INC (85%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK DAILY NEWS AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA COMPANY PROFITS (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); NEWSPRINT (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: GLABERSON, WILLIAM; ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER B

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1993



13 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Colleges to Offer Their Ideas In Battle to Overhaul CUNY

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN

 BODY:
In the next two weeks, the presidents of the City University's 17 undergraduate colleges are to deliver to Chancellor W. Ann Reynolds their plans for eliminating or consolidating some programs and expanding others. The goal, the Chancellor says, is to save millions of dollars and insure CUNY's survival as the nation's largest urban university in a time of economic hardship.
But accomplishing those changes depends in part on the fragile relationship between Ms. Reynolds and the faculty of these institutions. Since she announced her proposal to streamline the system last December, she has faced a barrage of criticism from restive faculty members who view her as high-handed and abusive. She, in turn, appears to regard the faculty as jealously territorial and stubborn. 
 Her recommendation to dismiss the president of the College of Staten Island, which the system's 17-member Board of Trustees supported on Monday, brought those tensions to the forefront. The dismissed college president, Edmond L. Volpe, has been a vocal opponent of the Chancellor's plans. On Friday, Karen Kaplowitz, chairman of the Faculty Senate of John Jay College of Criminal Justice, spoke of the possibility of "civil war at the university."
Since the fall term began, faculty groups at CUNY's various campuses have churned out a blizzard of resolutions alternately challenging, condemning and sometimes grudgingly accepting the Chancellor's efforts to streamline the curriculum.
She has responded by meeting with the faculty and giving the administrations of the colleges responsibility for recommending changes.
"Maybe there wasn't enough consultation initially," said James P. Murphy, chairman of CUNY's board of trustees, "but Ann Reynolds is doing a courageous job and has the full support of the trustees."
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who appoints a majority of the trustees, also remains a supporter, arguing that change will be difficult but necessary. In the last four years the State Legislature and City Council have eliminated more than $200 million, or 20 percent, from CUNY's $1.1 billion annual budget. Ms. Reynolds is asking for $19 million back this year.
Furthermore, she points out, while revenues decline, the student body continues to grow and change, from 208,000 today to a projected quarter million by the year 2000. Once the system mainly enrolled white students of European ancestry; today, the university reflects the changing city -- about 40 percent of the current entering students are black or Hispanic and trace their ancestry to the Caribbean. Two-thirds of the students are from minority groups, with blacks making up 30.5 percent of the student body, Hispanic students 21 percent, and Asians 11.4 percent.
 
Shifting Money
 A principal objective of Ms. Reynolds's proposals has been to shift money from academic programs with low enrollment -- like physics and French -- to those overflowing with students, particularly in the seven community colleges.
"We have 8,700 applicants in the field of nursing and fewer than 2,000 openings for them," Ms. Reynolds said. "We also have students backlogged in psychology, biology and chemistry, and we have to do something about that."
Although the colleges have not yet submitted their plans, these are among the specific proposals under discussion:
*Students in international business at Baruch College could study modern languages at Hunter College, perhaps through video and telephone hookups.
*Theater majors at Brooklyn College could take courses in lighting and stage design at the New York City Technical College in Brooklyn, and students at the latter could study theater at Brooklyn College.
*The French major at City College would be dropped, and language instruction would be available from faculty at Lehman College and perhaps Hunter College.
Chancellor Reynolds said that while these changes might seem minor, their cumulative effect on the university would be great. "We are phasing out 23 programs at Baruch College alone," she said.
"The total may come to 46 phaseouts," she said. "And there will be 45 programs under similar review, 22 programs for further review and 61 programs under consideration for strengthening."
Once the Chancellor approves the plans, CUNY presidents will have until next May to work out ways to put them in place. After those plans are accepted by the Chancellor, they must be approved by the university's board of trustees.
Next month, Ms. Reynolds will make an appeal in Albany for more money for the system. She has an opponent in State Senator John J. Marchi of Staten Island, a longtime leader of the Republican majority, who supports Mr. Volpe. He said on Friday that continued strife at the university could permit the Legislature "to seize on this as an opportunity to reexamine the budget."
The dispute over the reorganization plans began last December when Dr. Reynolds, a veteran of academic wars at the California State University system, who took office in 1990, announced a proposal that would have eliminated about 200 baccalaureate- and associate-degree programs at individual colleges, saying they were duplicative or had small enrollments.
Opposition throughout the CUNY system led the Chancellor to offer a scaled-back plan to the trustees in June in which she called for a periodic review of academic programs. But this scaled-back plan, though approved by the trustees, drew vigorous opposition when an internal memo came to light in July revealing Dr. Reynolds' intention to divide up $15 million in discretionary funds among only those campuses that had pursued her original plan. The faculty voted to condemn this "pattern of duplicity."
"This is a case of rewarding your friends and punishing your enemies," Kenneth Sherrill, a political science professor from Hunter, said at the time.
 
Faculty Dissent
 The faculties of five of the nine senior colleges began the fall term with votes expressing displeasure with Dr. Reynolds's leadership. Their message was clear: changes in curriculum should be initiated by the faculty, not dictated from above, as in the business world.
The Chancellor held a series of meetings to quell the dissent, culminating with a session on Sept. 24 with the faculty governance committee, which represents the faculty leaders from all the colleges. Professor Robert Picken, the chairman of the group, reported to Ms. Reynolds that she had taken "one necessary step towards restoration of our confidence in the academic administration of the University."
Today, Ms. Reynolds insists that she never intended to use the $15 million discretionary fund to reward colleges that went along with her plans, but rather "to recognize people who had worked their hearts out."
"City College had attacked me more than anyone," she continued, "but they came up with a dazzling set of academic ideas and therefore were in line for funding some programs that would be part of their budget request for 1994-95."
One longtime CUNY observer summed up Ms. Reynolds predicament this way: "She's brilliant. She's forceful. But when you set out to change things, as she has, you must make sure that the people who are involved understand your intentions. If you don't, they'll mount the barricades."

GRAPHIC: Photo: W. Ann Reynolds, the Chancellor of the City University of New York, meeting with faculty and staff members of CUNY's undergraduate colleges in her Manhattan office. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY) STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FINANCES COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); CITIES (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (63%); 

PERSON: HONAN, WILLIAM H; REYNOLDS, ANNE (CHANCELLOR) ANN LIVERMORE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1993



14 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: Deficit Falls for Year

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
The Government announced last week that its budget deficit tumbled to $254.9 billion in the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30. The budget gap was $26.1 billion less than the Administration had estimated in August and $67 billion less than the estimate in the April budget. In the 1992 fiscal year, the budget deficit was a record $290 billion. The narrower gap in the latest year mainly reflected falling interest rates and the failure of Congress to pass legislation that would have allowed the Resolution Trust Corporation to close its allotment of failed savings institutions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (94%); BUDGET DEFICITS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); LEGISLATION (82%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (82%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1993



15 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1615 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 CAMPAIGN: THE RACE FOR MAYOR;
The Candidates on the Issues: In Their Own Words

 BODY:
In the months in which Mayor David N. Dinkins and Rudolph W. Giuliani have crisscrossed the city seeking support for their electoral bids, countless words have been uttered on issues ranging from the safety of the city to the temperament of each other's opponent. Here are some of the more memorable comments.
 
DINKINS
 
Crime
We've hired 9,000 cops since I've been Mayor, for a net of 5,700, pretty close to 6,000 and more coming. And crime is down in the seven major F.B.I. index categories for the first time in 36 years, and for more than two consecutive years. Down in the major areas. Giuliani says, well, crime is not really down, they're just not arresting as many people. Well, you know, you've got less crime, there are fewer things for which people ought to be arrested, that makes sense. nd moreover, among the categories is homicide. Where do you think they are hiding the bodies? He says they are not down, so they are hiding the bodies somewhere, I guess. Nonsense, crime is down.
 Speech, Bethel A.M.E. Church, Harlem, Oct. 10
 
Race
Whether we like it or not, race is the silent visitor. Race should never be a subject of political debate. But race relations, if our city is to reign pre-eminent, must be spoken about -- without fear, and without rancor. Let me say, as clearly as I can, that I believe race relations can be an appropriate issue for a political campaign. To pretend that people in our city don't discuss it is silly. But our politicians must discuss it as sensibly as most of our people do -- in their daily lives, and in their daily dealings, in the most diverse city in the world. If you want to play the race card, then you should deal the whole deck. Lay out your plan on how to improve race relations in our city.
Race relations can be an appropriate issue ... but only if you want to craft solutions, and not catalogue complaints. If we use the issue appropriately, we can transform it from the cancer of our society into the cure.
 Speech at fund-raising event, Oct. 14
 
Police
Rudolph Giuliani ... opposes laws that would require New York City police officers to live in our city. But [suburban] legislators, you see, they like the fact that they and their constituencies are safer, because our cops live around the corner from them with money we pay for, with salaries we pay. Rudolph Giuliani thinks that's OK.
 Bethel A.M.E. Church, Harlem, Oct. 10
 
Jobs
We have not only the vision, but the plan for new jobs in our city. And let me tell you: those who say we should give up, or give in, or turn back are talking about one job -- in City Hall... I'm talking about creating 110,000 jobs all across the city... It's time for people to decide who has the experience, the vision, and the values to make this $32 billion corporation work for all New Yorkers.
 Policy speech, Sept. 21
 
Schools
The Board of Education is responsible to no one. Not to the Mayor and certainly not to you... I envision a system in which decisions are made not by a central board which couldn't recognize and asbestos cloud literally hanging over its head, but by parents and teachers and principals in a new set of school councils.
 Policy speech, Sept. 13
 
Neighborhoods
Those who bemoan the death of the old neighborhood ... reject the economics of upward mobility for all New Yorkers. They fail to understand, or refuse to understand, that the old neighborhood is alive and well in our city, that little has changed in our New York neighborhoods except the faces, the names, and the languages spoken. The same decent values of hard work and accomplishment and service to city and nation still exist... A Republican candidate who doesn't understand what our neighborhoods were about yesterday or what they are about today has little chance of understanding what they will be about tomorrow.
 Policy Speech, Sept. 13
 
Social Services
My friends, this election is much more than a choice among candidates. It's a test of our values... He wants to evict the homeless on the 91st day. We believe that there is no deadline on a city's decency. He wants to sell off public hospitals to the highest bidder, even if millions of working people have to go without health care. We believe that no one should go without health care, and that principle is not for sale.
 Speech to Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Oct. 28
 
About the Other Guy
I think it's necessary for you and the rest of the media to realize that Rudolph Giuliani has been under the candidate protection program. For the past four years, he's done nothing, absolutely nothing! Rudolph Giuliani says I want to be dictator. But when you, sir, and others challenge him on questions like that, and his ridiculous responses are put forth, then run your poll and see what the people think!
 Speech to Crains New York Business/New York Chamber of Commerce Forum, July 15
 
GIULIANI
 
CRIME
 "Has Mayor Dinkins worried about your concerns? And has he worried about the damage that he is doing by failing to arrest street-level drug dealers? He looks at statistics and he thinks that the city is safe. Well, get out of your limousine and walk the streets of this city!
We are not going to stand by while we watch the drug dealers take over our communities more and more each year. We don't have miracles. We don't have a magic wand that we can wave and all of a sudden the drug problem is gone. But we aren't going to surrender to the drug dealers the way this administration has by failing to arrest the drug dealers.
 Town Hall meeting in Jackson Heights, Oct. 11
 
RACE
"The question is that I'm guilty, that I'm guilty of raising the race issue by putting on two commercials that point out the way in which David Dinkins is stirring the issue... And Dinkins didn't do it because Dinkins didn't call me a fascist. Instead he stood there with three or four ministers who had just endorsed him for mayor, who had sat inside City Hall with him... planning the endorsement... They said that my supporters were fascist. They then went on to elaborate that I was surrounded with people like Hitler, Mussolini and Franco... I don't regard associations of my people that support me as fascists as a light matter... So excuse me if I have the sense that because they can't do the Mafia thing on me because it would be ludicrous, because I put two to three hundred of them in prison, they do the fascist thing on me.
 Breakfast meeting with Upper West Side Groups, Oct. 7
 
Police
We will begin the process that I will begin to unfold in the three or four years that I will be Mayor of giving the police a clear understanding of why they are there. They are there to prevent crime. When they take reasonable steps, the Mayor of New York will support them and that will create a less brutal, more honest and less corrupt police department. Because the thing that creates corruption more than anything else is the devastated morale in an organization. Corruption is the tone you set at the top.
 Policy Speech, Sept. 9
 
JOBS
Once, New York City was the undisputed business capital of the nation and the world. The sound of our commerce circled the globe. But if you listen closely today, what you hear is an ominous silence. In the last four years, the city has lost nearly 400,000 jobs... I'm not listening to anybody who tells me that we have no control over the national economy, and, therefore, no control of the nation economy's impact on the city... It really comes down to one word, and a powerful word at that. The word is management.
 Policy speech, Aug. 10
 
SCHOOLS
I can't imagine that any parents in the city are resting any easier today knowing that Norman Steisel, the same person who seemed not to know what he was doing in handling Lockheed, is now in charge of asbestos removal in the schools. And with this cloud hanging over Norman Steisel's head I would imagine the Mayor is going to have to remove him for a time during the asbestos removal and put someone else there until these questions are cleared up.
 Curtis and Lisa Sliwa Show, WABC-Radio, Aug. 19
 
NEIGHBORHOODS
New York City is becoming or already is the dirtiest city in America. I hear it over and over and over again... How can your city be so dirty. I don't pretend it isn't true, though the current administration pretends it isn't true. I say, lets clean up New York City instead of making stupid political excuses. Let's clean our city up!
 Policy speech, Sept. 9
 
Social Services
New York City stands alone in the expansiveness of its homeless policies. Were these policies effective the city's efforts could be applauded, but essentially they have proved to be useless and self defeating. In short the policies are bankrupt and are in need of major rethinking and overhaul.
 Position paper, Sept. 17
 
Obout the Other Guy
Nobody is suggesting that he is responsible for the asbestos in the schools. Would we suggest that David Dinkins is responsible for anything? Nobody is suggesting that he is responsible for it. Yes, it started under Ed Koch. But, hey, you've been Mayor for three and a half years, David! Do you think you could have found out about it? In less than three and a half years do you think you could have appointed somebody to the School Construction Authority? Do you think could have found out about the Korean boycott in less than six months? Or how come you were the only person in this city that didn't know that a riot was going on for four days? Give us a break!
 Town Hall meeting in Washington Heights, Oct. 27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; POLICE; BLACKS (IN US); LABOR; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CRIME RATES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ARRESTS (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); HOMICIDE (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1993



16 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Authorizes Wisconsin Curb On Aid to Poor

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration today gave Wisconsin permission to impose a two-year limit on welfare benefits for indigent families with children, inaugurating what could become the most radical experiment in the welfare program's history.
Advocates for welfare recipients have denounced the plan, to be tried in two counties, as a Draconian measure, and its constitutionality is certain to be challenged in Federal court. 
 Even if a court upholds the plan in theory, many provisions, outlined in 20 pages of Federal fine print, remain subject to conflicting interpretations, and it is unclear how strictly the provisions would be applied.
 
Violation of Normal Policy
 Since the Wisconsin plan violates normal Federal policy, the state had to seek waivers from two Federal departments, Health and Human Services, which oversees the welfare program, and Agriculture, which oversees food stamps.
The decision to let the experiment proceed was a politically delicate one that comes as the Administration is laying its own plans to revamp the welfare system nationwide.
President Clinton has done much to promote the idea of limiting the time a person can receive welfare payments, making it an important part of his campaign last year. "I want to erase the stigma of welfare for good by restoring a simple, dignified principle," Mr. Clinton declared. "No one who can work can stay on welfare forever." But his aides have envisioned a plan much richer in social services and protections than the one put forward in Wisconsin.
The concept of time limits seems to have gained a momentum of its own, and if the President had barred the Wisconsin plan he risked being accused of backsliding.
Instead, Administration officials softened some of the original Wisconsin provisions, refusing, for example, to let the state withdraw medical assistance after the time limit ends.
In celebrating the decision to proceed with a modified plan, Gov. Tommy Thompson, a Republican, contended that the change was in keeping with his state's long history of innovation in social policy.
But Mr. Thompson also acknowledged that "ours is different" from the approach the Administration seems to favor. "They gave us a waiver to try something revolutionary," he said, "and I want to compliment them."
 
Differing Methods
 The time-limit plans that most Administration officials seem to favor would offer some sort of community service option for people who had not found jobs within two years, allowing families to continue to receive benefits. The Wisconsin plan simply ends cash assistance after two years.
"They were looking for a little more protection," Governor Thompson said. "We said, 'No, we want this to be a mirror example of what you do in the marketplace,' " where there are no guarantees of jobs.
Advocates for the poor predicted an increase in homelessness and other hardships. "Children will be hurt by the Wisconsin waiver," said Cliff Johnson, director of programs and policy for the Children's Defense Fund. "It violates the most basic standards of fairness and decency. Parents who can work, should work but children shouldn't be punished when parents can't find jobs."
 
Starting in 1995
 The Wisconsin plan passed both the state's Democratic-controlled Assembly and its Republican-controlled Senate with strong support.
Wisconsin has a history of being on the cutting edge of social program expansion. But in recent years Governor Thompson has been leading something of a counterrevolution, trying to constrict aid and impose new conditions on those who get it.
Under the plan, which is scheduled to begin in January 1995, welfare parents will be allowed to collect cash benefits for two years. After that, they will be allowed to receive food stamps, medical assistance and, in some cases, vouchers to defray some housing costs. The vouchers would be worth less than the welfare grant.
During the first two years, welfare and food stamp payments would in cash, and families would be required to work them off at the minimum wage.
A mother with two children, for instance, could receive up to $729 a month, $517 in welfare payments and $212 from the food stamp program. In return, she would be required to work 172 hours a month, or about 40 hours a week, in a community work program.
During the first year, a mother could satisfy the work requirements by spending the same amount of time in a training program.
But even with the Federal permission granted, it remains unclear how the program will work in practice. One uncertainty is how lenient the state will be in exempting mothers with physical and emotional disabilities; another is exemptions for families who have made good-faith efforts to find jobs but have not succeeded.
Gerald Whitburn, Wisconsin's Secretary of Health and Human Services, said such exemptions would be considered only if a county's entire economy had soured. "As long as there's health in the economy, then the benefits would end," he said.
Melissa Skolfield, a Deputy Assistant Secretary at the Federal Department of Health and Human Services, sharply disagreed, saying: "I don't think that's right. What we're talking about is an individual exemption. It is not tied in any way to the county's economic conditions."
It is also unclear what the waiver might portend for the Administration's welfare plans. The President has said he will approve experiments, even if he disagrees with them, and the Wisconsin approval may just be an example. Or it could indicate the beginnings of a shift in the political debate, which might lead to a broader application of similar plans.
 
Reaction in Congress
 Representative Harold E. Ford, the Tennessee Democrat who heads the Ways and Means subcommittee that will take up the Administration's welfare proposals when they are announced, said that he believed the plan had enough protections for the poor to proceed as a small experiment but that he would take a dim view of efforts to do the same thing nationwide.
"Working off your welfare grant in make-work jobs, that's not something I look favorably upon," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WISCONSIN UNITED STATES (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION CHILDREN (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CHILD POVERTY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MEDICAID (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LITIGATION (76%); GOVERNORS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); TOMMY THOMPSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



17 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1707 words

HEADLINE: No Longer a Pariah, Peru Is Being Recast As Business Magnet

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru

 BODY:
Once crippled by guerrilla violence that left more than 25,000 dead and $23 billion in losses and considered by many to be ungovernable, Peru these days is drawing a rash of investors ranging from the United States to South Korea who are looking for big returns.
Foreign executives -- many of whom admit they are taking high risks -- are doing what as recently as mid-1992 was considered unthinkable for the profit-minded -- pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into one of the poorest and most chaotic countries in the third world, buying mines and television stations, fishing companies and airlines.
 
Business as the Vanguard
 Though the investments are still small by world standards, they are enormous by Peruvian standards. They are also the strongest sign yet that Peru may be on its way back from what many experts had predicted 18 months ago would be virtual collapse from rampant guerrilla violence. 
 Business investment is ahead of the diplomats, as it has often been in developing economies, in recognizing Peru's progress. In Washington now, there are the beginnings of a consensus in the Clinton Administration that once it has assurances on human rights, it should renew the aid to Peru that was halted after President Alberto K. Fujimori seized dictatorial powers last year.
"I think that business is out in front of the issue" in recognizing what has happened in Peru, "as it certainly was in Chile, Argentina and Mexico," years ago, said Brian D. O'Neill, a senior vice president at Chase Manhattan Bank and one of its top executives in charge of Latin American operations.
In the last two years, businesses have either invested or announced plans to invest more than $2 billion. By contrast, from 1985 to 1990, the era of President Alan Garcia, there was effectively no foreign investment, a result of laws forbidding companies to take profits out of the country and of nationalization policies.
The change largely results from the economic policies of Mr. Fujimori -- policies that have made him highly popular, as was underscored Sunday, when Peruvians widely voted to support the President's new Constitution.
Business executives have applauded Mr. Fujimori's opening of the economy, his elimination of almost all regulations, control of inflation, plans to sell state companies -- and the capture of the country's most violent guerrilla leader.
Foreign executives here say Mr. Fujimori's seizure of powers -- suspending the old Constitution and dissolving Congress and the courts -- also fundamentally changed Peru's business climate for the better.
While the President is hailed by investors for turning around Peru, political opponents and many leaders in other Latin American countries remain concerned over the authoritarian rule he has set up. Under Mr. Fujimori's regimen, Congress often rubber-stamps his policies and the courts remain effectively under his control. Yet, business often prefers a stable authoritarian climate to an unstable struggling democracy, and Peru has proved no exception.
When Mr. Fujimori assumed powers outside the Constitution, he argued that he needed the authority to combat corruption, cocaine trafficking and a rebellion by the Maoist Shining Path rebel movement, which controlled large parts of the countryside and the Lima shantytowns.
Within months, the armed authorities acted to reinforce his point. In September 1992, Shining Path's founder and leader, Abimael Guzman Reynoso, was captured, and businesses around the world that had been intimidated from investing in Peru because of the guerrilla activities took notice. Some lined up to invest.
"A year ago we felt there was no future in Peru," said Carlos Bolona Behr, former Economy Minister and architect of many of the Fujimori economic changes. "We were losing the war against the Shining Path and Peruvians were sending their money and children outside just waiting for the Government to fall. Now, people are talking about Peru seriously for the first time in decades."
 
Companies Respond
 And Leonard Harris, general manager of the Newmont Mining Corporation's new Andean gold mine, added: "We're moving into boom times here in Peru. The day Guzman was caught, the country was different."
Occidental Petroleum is spending more than $60 million for drilling. Nabisco has bought a Peruvian cookie and cracker maker, Field, for $10 million. Owens-Illinois purchased a Peruvian bottle maker, Vinsa, for $7 million. And the Southern Peru Copper Company, a joint venture of Asarco and Phelps Dodge, has announced plans to invest $300 million over the next five years in mining development. The Mexican network Televisa bought a controlling interest in Channel 4 of Lima. Peru is also becoming attractive to auto makers.
Big names have been attracted to the privatization program. Aeromexico paid $35 million for Aeroperu. Concerns including Phelps Dodge, Mitsubishi, Mitsui and Daewoo have lined up to bid on the privatization of the two other state mining enterprises. A.T.& T, GTE and Southwestern Bell say they will bid for Peru's two phone companies, to be sold early next year.
Newmont Mining, together with its French and Peruvian partners, opened the Yanacocha gold mine in August. It is now producing $1 million in gold bullion a week, and in six months, the expect to recoup their entire $37 million investment. The rest will be pure profit.
But the wave of investment, and the euphoria, raise difficult issues for Peru: Is this just another case of industrialists plundering the riches of a poor country? Is foreign investment the engine that will lift Peru out of years of recession and industrial decline? And most important, will it create jobs and an economic prosperity that trickles down to millions living in devastating poverty?
Economists say Peru is so depressed that there is no way foreign investment, at current levels, can quickly turn it around. The modernizing of industry and a narrowing of the gap between rich and poor would take decades, as it has taken Peru decades to reach its current state. But there seem few options for a country that is poor and deeply in debt.
As for lifting millions out of poverty, no one is expecting that quickly, either. Throughout Latin America, where governments have moved to open economies to lure foreign investors, officials are learning that benefits do not quickly trickle down. They find themselves under pressure to persuade the poorest to be patient.
In fact, many politicians seem relieved that with Communism gone as a contending economic philosophy, there has not so far emerged a credible alternative in Latin America to a policy of open markets.
In Peru, as elsewhere, foreign investment, when coupled with the sale of state-owned companies, removes the Government from excessive control over the economy, making it less susceptible to political manipulation that could kindle runaway inflation.
Foreign money also reinforces the confidence of local investors, leading, officials hope, to the return of billions that left the country in the 1980's. And profitable foreign companies pay taxes, providing revenue that can be used for salaries or social programs.
For Peru, the investment influx will not mean a windfall in new jobs, mainly because these companies tend to employ modern manufacturing and management tactics that require far fewer workers than before.
Yet, there is an unmistakable boost to local economies, particularly in generating secondary jobs that service the new companies. For example, Newmont Mining employed several hundred local workers to build the road to the Yanacocha mine, though the work near Cajamarca, a regional center, was only for a few months.
The wave of investment has spilled over to the tiny Lima Stock Exchange, which has risen more than 200 percent over the last two years. Most of that money is coming from foreigners.
Last year, the return on capital was 138 percent. In 1993 so far, the return is up 80 percent. "Our stocks used to be worth less than the paper they were printed on," said Jose Carlos Luque Otero, president of the exchange. "The change is a symptom of reactivation in the country, that things are getting better."
The notion of Peru as an emerging market follows the experience of other Latin American countries as "hot markets." Among these, Argentina, Chile, Mexico and Brazil have at various times seen big run-ups in the values of their companies. Some of those markets, at this point, are not considered bargains.
 
Changes in Inflation and Debt
 Mr. Fujimori, on taking office in 1990, inherited from the Garcia Government a geometrically increasing inflation rate, bank reserves of $100 million, and pariah status among international lenders for nationalizing or trying to nationalize foreign businesses and stopping debt payments.
The new President eliminated subsidies, froze wages, began making debt payments and opened negotiations with foreign investors to settle disputes. Today, Peru has inflation of about 3 percent a month and bank reserves of $2.6 billion. Some businessmen say its economy is the most liberalized in Latin America.
"We can now take oil out of the ground and do with it what we want instead of having to sell it to the Government oil company and below market prices," said Roger C. Alderson, general manager of the Peruvian subsidiary of Great Western Resources, an independent oil company in Houston. "Peru is one of the great unexplored areas on earth for oil, both onshore and offshore."
But not every business story is like that, or like Newmont Mining's success. Certainly, there are high risks in coming to a troubled country.
Ask Leslie Hong, president of Corsair Inc. of Bellevue, Wash., which leased five Boeing 727-100's to a start-up airline, Americana, that earlier this year went bankrupt. For more than nine months, a Peruvian court has frozen the assets, and four of the planes sit at Jorge Chavez Airport near Lima. Meanwhile, the airline continues to fly the fifth, and, according to Mr. Hong, cannibalizes parts from the four other 727's.
Mr. Hong says his company has lost $10 million in Peru, and is getting nowhere in the court. He wishes he had never come here.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Is Peru Coming Back?" shows Peru's economic figures from '87-'93. (Sources: National Institute of Statistics and Information (1); Economic Institute for the Free Market (2), Lima Stock Exchange (3), Salomon Brothers (4), Cuantro (5,6) (pg. D22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (54%); 

COUNTRY: PERU (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SHINING PATH (GUERRILLA ORGN) CHASE MANHATTAN BANK NORGE AS (54%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK OF CANADA (54%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK FRANCE (54%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK DELAWARE (54%); APCO ARGENTINA INC (54%); SHINING PATH (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHINING PATH (GUERRILLA ORGN) SHINING PATH (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU PERU (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CHILE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; PRIVATIZATION FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (74%); NATIONALIZATION (74%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); CIVIL WAR (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); POLITICS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C; GUZMAN, ABIMAEL; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



18 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: IN SHIFT, U.S. PLANS TO LIMIT PENALTIES TO RULERS IN HAITI

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
Ranking Administration officials said today that because a strengthened United Nations embargo on Haiti might do more harm than good, they were framing a narrower plan to impose new penalties on those who have opposed democratic rule there, rather than on Haitians in general.
At some later date, one official said, the United States might well be willing to support the sweeping sanctions urged by France and by the exiled Haitian President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide. But first, the official said, "we would like to try a somewhat less blunt instrument." 
 So calls went out over the weekend to a number of countries -- France, Switzerland, the Dominican Republic, Britain and some others -- urging them to follow the American lead in freezing the assets and revoking the visas of the 40 or so principal figures in the resistance to Father Aristide's return to power. At the top of the list are Gen. Raoul Cedras, the army commander, and Col. Joseph Michel Francois, the chief of police in Port-au-Prince, the Haitian capital.
 
U.N. Plans Similar Approach
 A resolution to the same effect is being drafted at the United Nations. It is not clear yet how much support it will command, nor has the Administration received answers to its appeals to individual countries. A potential weakness in the American plan is the traditional reluctance of Switzerland to freeze assets in its banks.
A State Department planner said: "We want the people running the show to suffer, not those who live at the bottom of the heap already. They have bank accounts all over, and houses, too, and they like to fly off for elaborate vacations. Maybe this will give them second thoughts without punishing the average Haitian."
Since it became clear last week that the Saturday deadline set in a United Nations-sponsored agreement for Father Aristide's return would not be met, a number of academic and diplomatic experts have suggested that the United States has only two choices: sending in the Marines or leaving the problem to the Haitians to resolve on their own.
 
Delay and Embarrassment
 But the Administration, top officials insist, sees no real appeal in either alternative. President Clinton's intention, they say, is to keep pushing, through sanctions and other pressure tactics, for adherence to the agreement that was signed on Governors Island in New York harbor in July.
Inevitably, that means delay and embarrassment for Mr. Clinton. Having lined up firmly behind Father Aristide, the President must watch while anti-Aristide forces dance in the streets of Port-au-Prince, celebrating what they call their victory over Washington and calling for fresh elections. Father Aristide remains in Washington.
The Administration is also loath to expand sanctions already voted by the United Nations, which affect weapons, munitions and fuel.
In practical terms, total sanctions against Haiti would be simple. Some products could flow across the border with the Dominican Republic, but because the two countries occupy the island of Hispanola, shutting off ports and airports would shut off almost all shipments. In addition, there is near-universal condemnation of the Haitian military's actions among other nations.
 
The Lesson of Rhodesia
 When sanctions were imposed in the 1970's against Rhodesia, now Zimbabwe, they were weakened by the willingness of a number of countries to permit their violation, either implicitly or explicitly, and by the difficulty of closing the nation's borders.
Many American specialists say widespread broad-based sanctions against Haiti will inevitably worsen the lot of the Haitian masses, many of whom already live in wretched circumstances. That, in turn, might restart the mass emigration in leaky boats that caused so much trouble in the past and prompted, to a considerable degree, the negotiations at Governors Island.
In addition, as one State Department official said, "The last thing we need this winter is pictures of hungry Haitian kids to go with pictures of shivering Bosnian kids."
The embargo on fuel could by itself create serious problems for the innocent, like disrupting the distribution of food and curtailing the production of electricity for basic public services.
Reluctant to move further down that road, the Administration seems to be engaged in a balancing act, resisting the French drive for broader sanctions, which are backed by Father Aristide and his supporters, but at the same time holding open the possibility of supporting them lest General Cedras and Colonel Francois conclude that they have won.
"The bad guys have to be convinced that we are dead serious, or they won't yield an inch in the negotiations that have got to start eventually," a White House aide said tonight.
Dante Caputo, the United Nations envoy in Port-au-Prince, is trying to restart a diplomatic effort on Wednesday, but American officials hold out relatively little hope for success until sanctions of one kind or another have begun to bite more deeply.
There are still no signs, the officials said, that General Cedras and Colonel Francois are prepared to step aside, as mandated in the Governors Island accord. Indeed, small right-wing groups argued over the weekend that because Father Aristide had not returned by the deadline, the agreement was null and void, and new elections would be needed.
As difficult as Father Aristide has sometimes been, Washington has no intention of abandoning him now, if only because that would constitute a humiliation for Mr. Clinton, who pledged during the 1992 campaign to do better in solving the Haitian problem than President Bush did.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); SWITZERLAND (92%); FRANCE (90%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); SWITZERLAND (92%); FRANCE (90%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ASSETS, FROZEN; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION ; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); RANKINGS (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ARMIES (70%); IMMIGRATION (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); POLICE FORCES (58%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); APPLE, R W JR ; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



19 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 2660 words

HEADLINE: Foreigners Find New Ally in U.S. Industry

SERIES: Powerful Persuaders: A Look at Lobbying Tactics -- Second of three articles.

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG with MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
Grant Bennett leads one of the last American companies that make a tiny but essential ceramic part for computers and advanced weapons systems, and he reluctantly concluded late last year that he needed Government help to survive in the face of Japanese competition.
So Mr. Bennett and another American company asked the Commerce Department for a bit of trade protection, arguing that America's national security would suffer if the troubled industry were allowed to collapse. 
 He knew that Kyocera Inc., the Japanese company that dominates the industry, would mount a determined fight, and he fully expected to confront a covey of Washington lobbyists representing the Japanese.
But Mr. Bennett was astonished to find that it was not those lobbyists who tipped the balance in Kyocera's favor. Instead, it was a chorus of American voices. One by one, many giants of American industry lined up in support of Kyocera, including the American Semiconductor Industry Association, I.B.M. and the Aerospace Industries Association.
 
The Power of Business
 All of them had important economic ties with Japan that they wanted to protect. As a result, "we got overpowered," Mr. Bennett said ruefully. And with the Commerce Department's decision in favor of the Japanese a few weeks ago, Mr. Bennett's case stands as a stark illustration of a quiet revolution that is sweeping the world of foreign lobbying.
For generations, foreign governments and companies from South America to East Asia have hired high-powered Washington lobbyists to press their views on their friends in government. In many cases, that is still true.
But even before Ross Perot and others began turning this sort of insider lobbying into a political issue last year, foreign interests began adopting a new strategy. Just as domestic lobbyists have turned to "grass roots" campaigns that use ordinary citizens to carry a corporation's arguments to Washington, foreign governments are now busily recruiting American businesses to make their cases.
"Foreigners don't vote, so foreigners need allies," said Joseph Massey, a former United States Assistant Trade Representative for Japan and China. When lobbyists come to Washington to speak for their foreign clients, "they get a polite reception because Americans are polite," he said. But if A.T.&T. or Motorola comes, he said, "they get listened to."
Japanese companies have come to the same conclusion.
As they built factories in this country over the last decade and opened their markets a bit to some American companies, an interdependency developed. In many ways, the relationship benefits this country. Thousands of Americans now work in Japanese automobile assembly plants; American companies make more money selling products and services in Japan.
But a byproduct is that governors and members of Congress, particularly those from states with Japanese plants, flock to Tokyo's side on certain important issues. So do American businesses that have a stake in averting trade conflict. Meanwhile, the Washington lobbyists who used to twist arms on behalf of their foreign clients now quietly glean information from low-level officials and plot strategy to marshal Japan's new American allies.
Other foreign companies and governments are following suit.
The Boeing Company, for example, has become one of China's most reliable allies whenever Beijing finds itself fighting to keep its most-favored-nation trading status. Chinese airlines regularly place orders with Boeing for new aircraft worth hundreds of millions of dollars.
"You have to find American allies," said Lance Morgan, an executive at a large Washington public relations and lobbying company. Ten or 12 years ago, he said, lobbyists working for foreign interests could make a few phone calls to well-placed officials and sway an issue. But now, he said: "No back-room deals. It has become wholesale politics, not retail relationships."
 
Establishing the Ties
Industry Replaces 'Superlobbyists'
 Of all foreign nations, Japan has the largest and most influential lobbying presence in Washington. From 1988 to 1992 Japanese interests hired more than 125 law firms, economic consultants and public relations companies, according to records the Justice Department keeps on lobbyists. That is not surprising; the United States is Japan's biggest export market. As a result, Japan has more to gain, or lose, from decisions made in Washington.
Japan's lobbyists spend much of their time compiling reams of intelligence: Where are the rifts between agencies? Who are Japan's natural allies within the bureaucracy? Who on Capitol Hill is most likely to push protectionist legislation?
During President Ronald Reagan's Administration, Tokyo relied on "superlobbyists" to exploit this information. Stanton Anderson, a former State Department official; John Sears, a one-time Reagan campaign manager, and Richard J. Whalen, an aide to Mr. Reagan from 1978 to 1980, were among the well-connected former officials hired by Japanese companies.
But the character of Japan's efforts began to change in the mid-1980's, as the United States trade deficit with Japan climbed toward its record high of $56.3 billion in 1987. Many officials believe the turning point came that same year, when a furious Congress came close to imposing huge sanctions on the Toshiba Machine Corporation for selling sophisticated machine tools to the Soviet Union.
The battle seemed lost until Toshiba and its Washington representatives mobilized a group of American companies with close ties to Japan to lobby on behalf of the Japanese company. Together they blocked the penalties.
"That was a watershed," said Mr. Massey, the former trade official. The Japanese quickly learned that "their most effective source of pressure was not from their lobbyists, but from I.B.M. and the others who depended on the Toshiba components."
"They learned that when they did it themselves, first of all they were unsuccessful," he said. "Second, they embarrassed themselves and made Americans angry and scared off potential domestic allies."
 
Dropping the Big Names
 Yoshihisa Komori, Washington bureau chief of The Sankei Shimbun, a major Japanese newspaper, and author of a book on Japanese lobbying, said Japanese corporate chiefs were particularly sensitive to unflattering American news reports in the 1980's about the high-priced former officials who were working for them.
"The Japanese proclivity to resort to big names, it's over," he said. "They really got bashed for that." What is more, he added, Japanese executives have all but given up on the idea of directly influencing American government decisions. What they look for instead, he said, "are the chances to ally themselves with American political entities that have clout."
As a result, members of Congress say they rarely see lobbyists representing Japan or most other foreign countries any longer.
"I got a little lobbying from Mexico," said one Senator, Paul Simon, Democrat of Illinois. "But that's it."
The ties to American allies have worked to the advantage of Japanese companies in several recent disputes. Plans by the Bush Administration from 1989 to 1991 to impose tariffs on displays for laptop computers were dropped after complaints from Apple Computer and other American customers that relied on the Japanese parts for its products.
 
Strengthening the Ties
Chilling Effects Of Japan's Power
 As part of their lobbying strategy, Japanese corporations and Government agencies hire dozens of American law firms and consulting agencies to represent them here, and American analysts endlessly debate what is really behind the practice. Some analysts say the Japanese hire so many firms because they want to tie up the country's most talented trade lawyers; others say Japan is wasting its money.
But Jiro Murase, a New York lawyer whose firm represents several hundred Japanese companies, has his own view. Born in New York City, he grew up in Japan during World War II and returned here to attend college and build a legal practice.
Mr. Murase said the Japanese take a long view of their relationship with Washington and are well aware that today's lawyer may be tomorrow's senior official. He listed several Clinton Administration officials from law firms with significant Japanese contracts, including Samuel R. Berger, the Deputy National Security Adviser, and Secretary of State Warren Christopher. Other prominent Administration officials from firms with Japanese lobbying contracts include Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown and Howard Paster, the White House's chief Congressional lobbyist.
"When you represent the Japanese, and your source of income is Japanese, your perceptions change," Mr. Murase said, adding: "With so many companies now doing business with the Japanese, making profits with the Japanese, I always say we're like one Siamese twin. If you hit too hard on one, pain will come to the other side."
 
U.S. Suppliers Back Clients
 Some Washington law firms now rely on Japanese clients, and that can have a chilling effect on former officials looking for jobs. William von Raab, a critic of Japanese trade policies while he served as Customs Commissioner in the Reagan and Bush Administrations, said several lobbying firms told him that "if we hire you, they'd pull their business."
The hundreds of American companies that supply parts to Japanese auto plants are another source of leverage. For a lobbying battle earlier this year, Toyota Motor Corporation urged 119 of its American suppliers to register their opposition to import quotas or higher tariffs on minivans.
Koichiro Noguchi, an official at the Japanese headquarters, helpfully enclosed a fill-in-the-blank form letter. It began this way:
"Dear President Clinton:
"(Company name) has invested some [ ) and employs ( ) at plants located in ( ). Currently we supply (part type) to (company name). We are very concerned to hear that your Administration is planning to make changes in this country's long-standing trade policy towards Japanese automakers."
So far, none of the proposed quotas, production limits or minivan tariffs have been adopted.
 
Cementing the Ties
Fear of Retaliation Shapes a Ruling
 Mr. Bennett's experience with Kyocera brought out the multilayered nature of Japanese lobbying. Wherever Mr. Bennett turned, it seemed, he encountered people with professional, personal or institutional relationships with Japan.
Mr. Bennett's company is among the few remaining domestic makers of ceramic housings that hold computer chips and transmit their signals. Roughly 90 percent of this country's high-tech weapons -- from tanks to fighter aircraft to the Patriot missile -- are made with imported supplies of this part, the majority from Kyocera. Most of the chips in the newest personal computers are also connected to these ceramics.
Last November, days after Mr. Clinton won the election, Mr. Bennett's company, Ceramic Process Systems Corporation of Massachusetts, joined with a Tennessee business, Coors Electronic Package Company, to file the Commerce Department complaint. They argued that it was essential for national security to maintain a domestic industry and asked the Government to invoke a cold-war-era trade law that authorizes the President to restrict imports or take other tough steps.
Mr. Bennett said he merely wanted the Clinton Administration to set aside an unspecified percentage of Pentagon business for American contractors. The idea has precedents: the Government requires its agencies to buy American cars and to book flights on American carriers.
A Japanese counterattack began almost immediately. On the front line stood Global U.S.A., a Washington lobbying group that had represented Kyocera since 1984. Justice Department records show that Global, which represents eight Japanese clients, over the years regularly met with the mid-level officials who would make the decision on Mr. Bennett's request.
 
Cultivating Officials
 In addition, several Clinton Administration officials involved in deciding Mr. Bennett's case -- including Mr. Brown, the Commerce Secretary -- had worked as lobbyists or consultants to Japanese industry before they joined the Government.
Even with all that, Mr. Bennett says that the decisive assistance came from American companies that have come to be dependent on Kyocera or other Japanese customers. The Aerospace Industries Association, for example, feared that its members would be vulnerable to retaliation if Washington imposed sanctions. American aerospace manufacturers enjoy an 8-to-1 trade surplus with Japan, and as Joel Johnson, the association's vice president, explained, "We're a nice big juicy target" for retaliation.
John Deutch, the Pentagon's senior procurement official, echoed that theme in a meeting with Mr. Bennett. Mr. Deutch said trade sanctions against Japanese companies would be imprudent when the Clinton Administration was pushing the Japanese to permit American companies to bid on work for Nippon Telegraph and Telephone.
For their part, Mr. Bennett and his lawyers argued that the Japanese supply of ceramics could be cut off at any time, either deliberately or because of an accident or terrorist incident. He noted that Japanese companies' sales of parts to American military contractors already skirt a Japanese law that forbids exports to military manufacturers.
 
U.S. Heavyweight Enters
 Initially the Commerce Department accepted that argument and drafted a ruling in Mr. Bennett's favor. Without protection, the Department concluded, the remaining American companies making ceramic housings would disappear within a few years.
But then I.B.M. entered the debate. The company makes ceramic housings for its own computer chips and recently began selling them as well from its factory in East Fishkill, N.Y. And at first, I.B.M. was sympathetic to the petition. The company told the Commerce Department that while it did not favor import restrictions, America's dependence on imported ceramics posed the threat of a "critical, extended supply interruption."
Just two weeks later, however, the company reversed itself and expressed implacable opposition, a view reasserted in two later letters.
I.B.M.'s stance was crucial, Government officials say. With it, Pentagon officials argued that the national security threat was illusory, that the nation's needs for ceramic parts would always be met by the computer giant.
Mark Holcomb, a Washington spokesman for I.B.M., said the company's conflicting letters reflected "an internal debate" and that company officials eventually decided to oppose any trade remedies that might invite "reciprocal behavior."
 
Protecting Ventures in Japan
 Soon after, the Commerce Department's preliminary finding in favor of Mr. Bennett was redrafted.
Bob Denysyk, Kyocera's chief lobbyist, asserted that I.B.M. and other American companies who supported Kyocera because of "business realities," not any campaign orchestrated by Japanese company. Still, one American industry official said a Kyocera lobbyist had asked him to join the case.
While the Government ruled against Mr. Bennett, Secretary Brown did order a plan to shore up the industry. It includes Government help for research and development, and Mr. Brown promised to have another look at the issue within a year.
But the story did not end there for another American company that had written a letter opposing Kyocera.
International Micro Industries Inc., of Mount Laurel, N.J., makes computer chips, but said it has since been unable to obtain ceramic parts from its Japanese suppliers. Thomas Angelucci, the company's president, said three Japanese companies that that had been soliciting his business just a few months earlier suddenly told him that they could no longer fill his orders.
Next: A new role for revolving-door lobbyists.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Grant Bennett, left, president of Ceramic Process Systems in Milford, Mass., recently saw American businesses lobby for his Japanese rivals before the Commerce Department, which rejected his bid for a measure of trade protection. He watched a quality control technician evaluating an integrated circuit package at the plant. (Dan Habib for The New York Times) (pg. B8)
 
Chart: "Lobbying America: Who Spends The Most?"
 Lobby working on behalf of foreign interests are required to report all their earnings to the Justice Department. Following is the amount each foreign entity, or a company on its soil, is reported to have spend in 1992. Money spent for tourism promotion or for the distribution of books, films and newspapers has been excluded. The money can be spent on a broad range of purposes from lobbying to legal advice to economic development.
 
*Scotland engages in lobbying for economic development above and beyond lobbying done by Britain.
 
+Includes $680,000 spent by the Government and $1,665,757 spent by opposition groups.
 
(Source: Justice Department) (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: KYO (NYSE) (57%); 6971 (TSE) (57%); MSI (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); SCOTLAND (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

COMPANY: KYOCERA CORP (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (56%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (56%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); SCOTLAND (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; CORPORATIONS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LOBBYING (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); SALES & SELLING (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (68%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (68%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (67%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (65%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (63%); POLITICS (63%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); TRADE REGULATORY ACTIONS (51%); 

PERSON: ENGELBERG, STEPHEN; TOLCHIN, MARTIN GRANT C BENNETT (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



20 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Salinas Defends His Government and Pledges Civility in Vote in '94

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 1

 BODY:
Defending his Government against rising criticism, President Carlos Salinas de Gortari today pledged civility and fairness in national elections next year and promised his opponents "full freedom" to present their cases to the people.
In his annual state-of-the-nation address Mr. Salinas said he would not go beyond the changes to political statutes that his Institutional Revolutionary Party pushed through the legislature in September. Those changes have been criticized as grossly inadequate by many critics, although they were eventually endorsed by the conservative opposition in Congress. 
But Mr. Salinas went further than he has before in answering opposition leaders who have warned that after 64 years in power the governing party is gearing up for a no-holds-barred effort to retain the presidency for an additional six-year term.
"I offer the diverse political forces and the contenders who will take part in the electoral contest full respect, abidance to the terms of the law and proper conditions for them to present their options to the Mexicans in full freedom," Mr. Salinas said.
 
Issue in U.S. Congress
 The political conduct of the Government and its party have come under harsh attack after a series of incidents in which they have been accused of trying to censor critics and discredit a leftist leader, Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, who is expected to be the sole strong opposition candidate in the presidential vote in August.
The shortcomings of the political system have also flowered as an issue in the United States Congressional debate over the North American Free Trade Agreement. With the accord expected to go to a vote in the House of Representatives as early as Nov. 17, some American legislators are arguing that Mexico should have fair elections if it is to be in a free-trade zone with the United States and Canada.
Responding to pressure to allow foreign observers in the vote Mr. Salinas said "only the Mexicans" should be "the definitive watchmen."
Reflecting his Government's deep concern that the trade agreement might be voted down in Washington, Mr. Salinas sought again to play down the importance of the pact, stressing the availability of trade and investment partners in Europe and Asia. "It should be noted once again that its benefits will not be forthcoming in the short term," Mr. Salinas said of the proposed treaty. "Nor will they produce spectacular results."
Obliging tradition, Mr. Salinas said nothing of the secretive process by which he will soon announce his choice of the governing party's presidential candidate. In the past, the incumbent's nomination has been tantamount to election, and any of the senior officials considered to be strong contenders would probably be favored over Mr. Cardenas. But Mr. Salinas's three-hour address will nonetheless be sifted for apparent clues about his choice.
 
Some Prominent Contenders
 Some political commentators thought that Mayor Manuel Camacho Solis of Mexico City received a particularly strong pat on the back through mentions of the soundness of municipal finances, a new children's museum and other projects. But other commentators saw tacit endorsements of Finance Secretary Pedro Aspe or Education Secretary Ernesto Zedillo. And none of the commentators seemed ready to downgrade Luis Donaldo Colosio, the Secretary of Social Development.
Defending his Administration against criticism of its economic policies, Mr. Salinas cited statistics showing that poverty had declined, an assertion that some economists dispute. He said inflation had been the most insidious force in concentrating wealth. Inflation fell to an annualized rate of 8 percent from 51.7 percent in the year that he took office, Mr. Salinas said. -- He argued that the emergence of big conglomerates and a new elite from his privatization of state companies did not mean further poverty for the poor.
The heart of the message, though, was a promise of civility in the contest ahead and a call to his supporters and opponents "to unite in a committed effort to hold clear, transparent and exemplary elections, to join in a political pact of civility within the framework of the law."
Some opposition leaders, particularly those on the left, dismissed the pledge, noting that the governing party would still be able to influence election boards, dominate television advertising and shape the first limits on campaign spending. Where the governing party has traditionally depended on back-channel financing from the state, it can also now collect individual contributions of more than $650,000 a year from executives and others who depend on Government support.
"He didn't talk about free elections," the president of Mr. Cardenas's Democratic Revolutionary Party, Senator Porfirio Munoz Ledo, said. "He talked about civility, about kissing our grandmothers on the cheek. The question is whether his Government will agree to accept an opposition victory and minimal conditions of equity in the campaign."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico yesterday in Mexico City after his annual state-of-the-nation address. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; ETHICS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); ETHICS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); CENSORSHIP (51%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM; SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES) CARLOS SALINAS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



21 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Announcement of New Film Sends Silver Prices Down

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Silver prices plunged yesterday after the Xerox Corporation announced that it had developed a new type of silver-free film.
Silver for December delivery fell 14.2 cents, to $4.225 an ounce, the lowest level in four weeks, on the Commodity Exchange in New York. Gold prices also dropped, with the December futures contract falling $7.50 on the Comex, to $362.10 an ounce. 
 Silver prices had recovered this summer to a level of $5.40 an ounce -- from a two-year low in March of about $3.50 -- on inflation fears and a belief that industrial demand would pick up along with the global economy.
But prices have receded since August, and news of the new silver-free film sent the market reeling.
Xerox said its new Verdefilm, for use in graphic arts, not only does not have silver content, but it also does not require chemicals to develop.
Alternatives to existing silver-halide technology are already in use by some film manufacturers. But if, as Xerox asserts, the quality has been improved, "this could be extremely threatening for silver," said Tony Warwick-Ching, a metals analyst at Commodity Research International.
The Silver Institute, a industry group, estimated that worldwide, photography consumes nearly 186 million ounces of silver a year, with 41 million going for graphic arts applications. Total global silver consumption is 590 million ounces, the institute said.
An analyst at Merrill Lynch, William O'Neill, stressed that Xerox's news simply added to the already bearish fundamental outlook for silver, based on thousands of tons of excess supply.
The Xerox announcement "just adds more and more silver, and makes silver less and less attractive as an industrial metal," Mr. O'Neill said.
Among other commodities, oil and natural gas prices rose sharply, partly in response to a cold snap in much of the nation. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for December delivery jumped 51 cents, to $17.43 a barrel, rebounding from a fall last week to a six-week low of $16.92. December heating oil soared 1.56 cents, to 53.12 cents a gallon, and December natural gas gained 6.6 cents, to $2.434 for 1,000 cubic feet. December unleaded gasoline added 0.79 cent, to 48.50 cents a gallon.
 The Northeast was bracing yesterday for winter temperatures, which would raise demand for heating oil and natural gas from homeowners and utilities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: XEROX CORP XEROX CORP (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: XEROX CORP COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: SILVER; FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; PHOTOGRAPHY; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS SILVER MARKETS (92%); FUTURES (92%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PHOTOCOPIER MFG (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); INFLATION (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION STATISTICS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



22 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: After 4-Week Crescendo, Blast Suspect Is Mentioned

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
It was a first, and it took four full weeks of testimony and 60 witnesses before it happened, but yesterday, finally, the name of a defendant was mentioned in testimony in the World Trade Center bombing trial.
Late in the afternoon, an executive of the Ryder Rental Agency, Clark Anderson, was led through his testimony by a prosecutor, Henry DePippo. Mr. Clark looked through several folders that contained the history of one of the many thousands of vehicles in the Ryder fleet -- a vehicle that, Mr. Anderson said, bore Ryder identification number 115141, which corresponded to a Ford Econoline van stamped with a manufacturer's identification number of LHA75633. 
 The number LHA75633 has come up numerous times in the last few days of the trial as the prosecution painstakingly resurrected in court a Ryder rental van found in many small, crumpled pieces in the wreckage of the World Trade Center. The prosecution's case hinges on showing that this van contained the explosive that blew a huge hole in the underground parking garage of the trade center complex on Feb. 26.
Having, it seems, finished with the evidence regarding the identity of the van, Mr. DePippo moved on to the logical next step.
"Can you tell us, sir, who was the last customer who rented that van?" he asked the witness.
Mr. Anderson looked at the rental history of the van, which had been put into evidence moments before.
"Mohammed Salameh," he said.
In fact, the mention of Mr. Salameh's name did not have enormous significance for the prosecution's case, since Mr. Salameh, as his lawyer indicated in his opening statement a month ago, does not dispute renting a van from a Ryder agency in New Jersey on Feb. 23, three days before the World Trade Center blast. The lawyer, Robert E. Precht, said that Mr. Salameh reported the van stolen on Feb. 25, the day before the bombing, the suggestion being that the mere fact that he rented the van does not prove at all that he used it for any illegal purpose.
 
Case Built From Bottom Up
 Still, the long anticipated mention of Mr. Salameh's name came as a kind of dramatic high point in a trial that has focused, for the past three weeks now, on such dry matters as the identification of vehicle parts and the reconstruction of tire fragments without any direct reference to the four men actually on trial.
There are no eyewitnesses in the case who actually saw any of the defendants planting a bomb or even in the vicinity of the World Trade Center. Therefore, the prosecution's strategy has been to build a case, based almost entirely on circumstantial evidence, from the bottom up, beginning with the fragments of evidence found during a one-month search of the trade center wreckage by agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
After the investigators presented the shards of metal and the shreds of rubber tire, experts were called in to show that they all belonged to a Ford Econoline van belonging to the Ryder Rental Company.
 
Pointing to One Moment
 Two witnesses, tire experts for the Michelin Tire Company and Bridge stone-Firestone Inc., told the jury last week that the 19 tire fragments found in the wreckage indicated that there were four tires present: a Michelin, a Michelin retread, a Bridgestone and a Firestone.
The last witness in this long series of witnesses was William F. Peffer, an engineer for the Ford Motor Company who finished his testimony yesterday with what might turn out to be a crucial element in the case.
Looking at the two rear wheels recovered in the debris, Mr. Peffer said that it looked as though they had both been torn from their bolts from the inside out. At some point the prosecution will have to show that the van was not only blown apart by the blast but that it contained the explosive device. If the wheels were blown outward, as Mr. Peffer contended, that would indicate that the explosive had been placed between them.
All the testimony, in short, pointed to the moment when somebody from Ryder would take the stand, finally, to make the formal connection between the fragments of metal and tire and the defendants in the case.
Enter Mr. Anderson.
 
Tire-Replacement Record
 Before he named Mr. Salameh, he was led by Mr. DePippo through a couple of other key points. He reaffirmed certain unusual characteristics of Ryder vans that had already been shown, without their meaning being made clear, to the jurors. He testified, for example, that Ryder vans are all painted a characteristic yellow, called "Ryder yellow" by Mr. Anderson. The wheels are painted white, he said, as were the wheels recovered in the rubble.
Mr. Anderson also read out the record of tire replacement for van number 114151. The record indicated that the rear wheels were equipped with one Michelin tire, one Michelin retread and two Bridgestone tires.
Mr. DePippo asked whether the tire records are always complete, making an effort to account for the fact that the record did not indicate the Firestone tire that had been identified by the tire experts last week.
"No," Mr. Anderson said. "Sometimes if a customer damages a tire, he might replace it on his own, and then we wouldn't know about it, or it wouldn't show up on the computer records."
Then the crucial, and final question: Who was the renter of the van?
Mr. Anderson answered as if the name had no particular meaning to him. Mr. Salameh sat at the witness table, his arm draped over the back of his lawyer's chair, showing no expression on his face as his name was uttered by a witness in the trial for the first time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; TRIALS; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; ISLAM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) TESTIMONY (91%); EVIDENCE (90%); WITNESSES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); EYEWITNESSES (89%); LAWYERS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); RELIGION (74%); TERRORISM (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, RICHARD; SALAMEH, MOHAMMED A; AJAJ, AHMAD M; ABOUHALIMA, MAHMUD; AYYAD, NIDAL A

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



23 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rises on Indications Of Stronger U.S. Economy

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The dollar rose against most leading currencies yesterday, as upbeat economic news in the United States drew investors into American financial assets.
The dollar rose after the National Association of Purchasing Managers monthly index of manufacturing activity rose to 53.8 percent in October from 49.7 percent in September, pointing to a rise in growth. Construction spending, which rose eight-tenths of 1 percent in September, also lent support to the dollar. 
 With a bullish climate, a factor that held back the dollar was talk that European central banks sold dollars through the Bundesbank, the German central bank, dealers said.
"The presence of central banks kept a lid on the market," Frank Pusateri, vice president of the Bank of Boston, said.
Many of Europe's markets were closed yesterday for All Saints Day.
"There's certainly been a lot of central-bank activity in the last few weeks," Bruce English, head of institutional sales at ABN/AMRO N.V., said. "Now that marks are cheaper, banks might be selling dollars and buying marks to replenish reserves."
 
 
Yen Rises Against Dollar
 The yen, however, rose against the dollar, mostly because traders bought the Japanese currency and sold off other weaker European currencies.
"Right now, the tendency is to buy yen and sell marks," Mr. English said.
The dollar rose to 1.6940 marks in late New York trading, from 1.6858 marks on Friday. But it slipped to 108.20 yen from 108.65 yen.
While the dollar's gains were stalled by profit taking and rumored bank sales, technical factors and promising economic data continued to cast a bullish light on the buck.
Others cautiously noted, however, that this perception could change should Friday's key payrolls report for October fall short of expectations.
The British pound closed in New York at $1.4815, unchanged from late Friday. Other late dollar rates, compared with Friday's quotes, included: 1.5020 Swiss francs, up from 1.4915; 5.9297 French francs, up from 5.8980; 1,651 Italian lire, up from 1,645, and $1.3101 Canadian, down from $1.3208.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CURRENCIES (95%); CENTRAL BANKS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BRITISH POUND (73%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



24 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
More signs of an expanding economy were reported. The manufacturing sector grew in October for the first time in five months and construction spending climbed. [Page D1.] 
 Hillary Rodham Clinton accused the health insurance industry of driving the nation "to the brink of bankruptcy." [A1.]
The Supreme Court will decide whether states can tax multinational corporations on earnings from beyond state borders. [D7.]
Prosecutors moved to dismiss the criminal case against Clark M. Clifford in the B.C.C.I. scandal. [B7.]
 
Companies
The California, New York State and General Motors pension funds will invest in a Dillon, Read venture that will expand their investing role into company management. [D1.]
Congress will debate whether to pay for expanded human tests of an experimental AIDS vaccine made by Microgenesys. [D1.]
Insurance companies face claims estimated at $250 million for fire-damaged homes in Southern California. [D1.]
G. Heileman Brewing will be sold to Hicks, Muse for $390 million. The company sold for $1.3 billion in 1987. [D1.]
Capital Cities/ABC's chairman will add the chief executive's job and the company will buy back 2 million shares. [D2.]
Lawyers for Paramount Communications and QVC Network met for the first time to discuss a merger. [D2.]
Xerox announced a new type of photographic film that it predicted would make silver halide film "obsolete." [D4.]
Rodman & Renshaw Capital agreed to sell 51 percent of its shares to Abaco Casa de Bolsa, a Mexican brokerage firm. [D4.]
McDonnell Douglas reported a $142 million third-quarter profit despite declining military and commercial aircraft orders. [D4]
Commerce Clearing House produced copies of the 1,336-page Clinton health plan just two days after it was issued. [D4.]
Kmart is negotiating to sell half of its PACE warehouse stores and its Pay Less Drug chain in separate deals. [D5.]
MFS sought to change rules requiring phone companies to provide affordable service to virtually everyone. [D5.]
Lucasarts Entertainment appointed a former executive of the Go Corporation as president and chief executive. [D5.]
Travelers was denied a 20 percent rate increase for homeowners insurance on Long Island. [B6.]
 
International
Peru is drawing investors looking for big returns. A nation that a few years ago was crippled by guerrilla violence and ravaged by inflation is increasingly regarded as a model for privatization. [A1.]
Foreign governments are recruiting American businesses to help them lobby trade issues in Washington. [A1.]
Japan and Europe will swarm over Mexico like "flies on a June bug" if the U.S. rejects Nafta, President Clinton warned. [B9.]
Hyundai's founder and honorary chairman was sentenced to three years in prison for violating election laws. [A10.]
 
Markets
Economic news sent blue-chip stocks to new levels but did not spark a broad rally. The Dow rose 12.02, to 3,692.61. [D8.] New issues of municipal bonds surged to a record $240.7 billion in the first 10 months of the year. [D16.]
Silver prices plunged after Xerox announced a new type of silver-free photographic film. [D18.] The dollar rose. [D18.]
 
Today's Columns
Warren E. Buffett will play a key role in a self-tender offer by Capital Cities/ABC. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D8.]
"N.Y.P.D. Blue" is a success in the ratings, but it is less popular with advertisers. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D20.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (67%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: QVC INC (67%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); ABC INC (55%); DIRECT MARKETS HOLDINGS CORP (54%); PAY LESS DRUG STORES NORTHWEST INC (53%); CASA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CASA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CONSTRUCTION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); LOBBYING (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (77%); SENTENCING (76%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); AIRCRAFT MFG (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); AIDS & HIV (70%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (69%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); ELECTION LAW (69%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (67%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (63%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (55%); VACCINES (55%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



25 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: The 1993 CAMPAIGN;
The Region: Tough Races for L.I. District Attorneys and Connecticut Mayors

 BODY:

Nassau District Attorney
Denis Dillon, Nassau County District Attorney, is seeking an unprecedented sixth term, running against a former member of his own staff, Timothy Calonita, who served as an assistant district attorney until his resignation in May in a dispute with the county over budget cuts.
Mr. Dillon is a former Democrat who, because of his support of the anti-abortion movement in the mid-1980's, switched to the Republican Party. He also is running on the Conservative and Right-to-Life lines. 
 Mr. Calonita, a Republican running on the Democratic line, contends that Mr. Dillon has become sidetracked by issues, such as abortion, and has lost his mandate as the county's chief law-enforcement official.
Mr. Dillon contends that Mr. Calonita, who was a member of his staff for 5 1/2 years, lacks experience. He is also critical of Mr. Calonita's academic record, noting that he graduated from law school near the bottom of his class and failed his first attempt to pass the bar exam.
Both candidates have suffered bouts with cancer, and both say they have recovered and that their health should not be an issue in the campaign.
A third candidate, Mark J. Morgenstern, is an independent running on the Liberal party line.
 
Suffolk District Attorney
 In Suffolk County, District Attorney James M. Catterson Jr., a Republican seeking a second four-year term, is accused by the Democratic candidate, Patrick Kevin Brosnahan, of arrogant behavior and of failing to root out political corruption.
Mr. Brosnahan, 44, whose legal specialty is election law, has faulted Mr. Catterson for driving a BMW seized from a drug dealer under Federal forfeiture laws. He has also asserted that Mr. Catterson turned a blind eye to allegations of corruption among Republican officials in the Town of Brookhaven, where Mr. Catterson lives.
Mr. Catterson, 63, said his staff of 142 lawyers has the highest rate of convictions, after trials, in the state. He said his 30 years of legal experience, emphasis on staff training and initiatives in environmental and spousal abuse cases made him a better choice than Mr. Brosnahan, whom he called a "Democratic attack dog" given to delusional charges and lacking in criminal law experience.
 
Connecticut Races

In Connecticut, Hartford's three-term Democratic Mayor, Carrie Saxon Perry, is facing a hard-fought challenge from a fellow Democrat, Michael P. Peters, who is running as an independent. Ms. Perry has campaigned on the theme that Hartford, having been battered by the recession, is on its way back with visionary projects like the recent attempt to attract a professional football franchise. Mr. Peters, a city firefighter, says the Mayor presumes too much and that Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. has been the real mover behind Hartford's elevated spirits. Democrats outnumber Republicans in Hartford by about 8 to 1.
In Waterbury, a city racked in recent years by corruption scandals, both the incumbent Democrat, Edward D. Bergin Jr., and the Republican challenger, State Senator Stephen R. Somma -- in a mud-slinging contest -- have tried to link each other with elements of the city's less savory past.
In New Haven, John DeStefano Jr., a Democrat, and Kevin A. Skiest, a Republican are vying to replace Mayor John C. Daniels, the city's first black mayor, who declined to run for a third term. Democrats there outnumber Republicans 10 to 1.
 
New Jersey Legislature

New Jersey voters will decide contests for all 120 seats in the Legislature.
Two years ago, Republicans capitalized on voter anger over Gov. Jim Florio's $2.8 billion tax program to take control of both the Senate and Assembly from the Democrats. Republicans picked up 10 seats in the Senate for a total of 27 out of the 40 seats, and increased their membership in the Assembly by 21 seats to hold a 58 to 22 majority.
With Governor Florio running ahead of his Republican opponent, Christine Todd Whitman, Democratic leaders hope to win back seats in nominally Democratic districts in Mercer, Middlesex and Bergen that they lost in 1991, but the election is not expected to return control to the Democrats.
New Jersey voters will also have an opportunity to give themselves the power to recall elected officials. A ballot question will ask whether the State Constitution should be amended to make it possible to remove officials from the municipal level to Congress after they have served a year in office.
 
Bergen County Blue Laws
 The 34-year-old ban on Sunday shopping in Bergen County, N.J., one of the country's richest shopping hubs, will be put to a vote for the first time since 1980, when residents voted 192,394 to 157,648 to maintain restrictions that bar the sale of clothing, furniture, appliances and building supplies.
Proponents of repeal say two-income families and the complexities of modern life require the flexibility of a full, seven-day shopping week.
Supporters of the status quo say those who would overturn the blue laws are motivated by greed. Sunday shopping, they say, would also worsen the suburban quality of life by adding a seventh day of unbearable highway and local traffic.
Ten of the state's 21 counties enacted Sunday shopping bans in 1959, but Bergen is the only one to retain them. If the blue laws are repealed, unrestricted shopping could start on Sunday. But not in Paramus, which is home to the Garden State Plaza and other large shopping centers along Routes 4 and 17. Paramus and two other towns, Ridgewood and Wyckoff, maintain their own Sunday restrictions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NASSAU COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; DISTRICT ATTORNEYS LAWYERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MAYORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CORRUPTION (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); ABORTION (76%); ELECTION LAW (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); ASSET FORFEITURE (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (73%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); CRIMINAL LAW (69%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (69%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (67%); CANCER (66%); SCANDALS (64%); DOGS (61%); BUDGET CUTS (57%); 

PERSON: DILLON, DENIS E (DIST ATTY); CALONITA, TIMOTHY CARRIE SAXON PERRY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



26 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Steps Up Campaign for Trade Accord

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
With a little more than two weeks to go before Congress votes on the free trade agreement with Mexico and Canada, President Clinton today stepped up his campaign for it and told business leaders that if it was rejected, Japan and Europe would swarm over the Mexican market like "flies on a June bug."
Speaking here to a conference sponsored by the United States Chamber of Commerce and beamed on television by satellite to forums organized by business leaders at some 1,000 locations around the country, the President reached for every argument he knew in favor of the North American Free Trade Agreement: 
 *He sounded alarms: If the United States turns down the agreement Japan and Europe will swoop in.
*He pressed the immigration button: The accord would encourage Mexico to export goods instead of people.
*He painted grand visions: It would pave the way to a free trade zone of a billion people from the northern tip of Canada to the southern tip of Chile.
*And he waved the flag, declaring that only someone who was "nuts" would say that America could not win in head-to-head economic competition with Mexico.
The House of Representatives is scheduled to vote Nov. 17 on the agreement, which over the next 10 years would abolish all tariffs and other trade barriers among the United States, Mexico and Canada. If the accord is approved then, quick passage is likely in the Senate, where it has more support. But in the House most Democrats remain opposed, and so the President and his Cabinet are going into high gear to muster votes.
 
Deals Behind the Scenes
 The White House is making deals behind the scenes with fence-sitters in Congress, and Mr. Clinton has scheduled events almost every day this week to sell the accord. On Tuesday, all the living former Secretaries of State are coming to the White House to show support for the pact. Secretary of State Warren Christopher will then fly to Los Angeles to deliver a speech, and Vice President Al Gore has scheduled a series of arm-twisting dinners with members of Congress.
These next few days are crucial, White House officials say, because if the fence-sitters are to be won over, they must be convinced that sentiment has turned in favor of the agreement.
White House officials say the accord will either pass by a slim margin or be defeated by a large one, depending on which way the tide of undecided lawmakers starts flowing in the coming days. Organized labor and Ross Perot are insisting that the pact would lead to fewer jobs and lower wages in this country, and Mr. Perot is threatening to bring his campaign against the agreement to Washington and lead a protest march down Pennsylvania Avenue.
But at this stage a reliable vote count in the House is hard to come by. The Democratic whip, Representative David E. Bonior of Michigan, who is leading the opposition forces, has said he is 10 votes shy of enough to insure that the accord will be rejected. But Administration officials and lawmakers favoring the pact say they are increasingly confident of victory.
Time and again today, the President used as his most emotive weapon the specter of a Mexican market stolen by Japan and Europe, not that any such weapon was needed to drum up support from his Chamber of Commerce audience, which was stacked in favor of the White House. Acknowledging that he was speaking to the converted, Mr. Clinton said:
"You all have to be missionaries. We only have 17 days. We need you to go out and make sure that your members of Congress, every man and woman in the Congress that you can reach, is contacted by real people who say, 'My life will be better.' "
"We're trying to give the secret supporters of this agreement in Congress, and there are lots of them, the political cover they need to vote yes," said a senior Clinton aide.
The President said that in the event Congress rejected the agreement, "if I were Prime Minister of Japan and I had a low growth rate and I had my companies going crazy, I would jump on this like flies on a June bug."
"If Congress votes this down on the 17th of November," he continued, "I would, if I were the Prime Minister of Japan, have the Finance Minister of my country in to see the President of Mexico on the 18th of November. That's what I would do. I'd say, 'We've got more money than they do anyway; make the deal with us.' "
Mr. Clinton also tried to puncture the main economic argument used by opponents of the accord: that jobs would flow to Mexico because of lower wages there.
"If that were true," he said, "what you would be reading this morning about Haiti is that Haiti had all the manufacturing jobs in America, right? I mean, if this were a case of low wages, the headlines on Haiti today would be, 'General Motors Shuts Down in Michigan,' 'Caterpillar Leaves Illinois, Goes to Port-au-Prince.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton reached for every argument he knew yesterday as he called upon corporate America to support his campaign to win Congressional approval of the North American Free Trade Agreement. He spoke to a conference sponsored by the United States Chamber of Commerce that was beamed by satellite to forums organized by business leaders at 1,000 locations across the country. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (97%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF THE UNITED STATES UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF THE UNITED STATES UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MEXICO; CANADA UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (97%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; CORPORATIONS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); APPROVALS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (56%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); AL GORE (58%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



27 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: The 1993 CAMPAIGN;
The City: Much at Stake in Contests for Council, Comptroller and Advocate

 BODY:

 Public Advocate
Susan D. Alter, the Republican-Liberal candidate for Public Advocate, spent the last day of the campaign stumping with the top of her ticket, Rudolph W. Giuliani, at centers for the elderly across New York City while her Democratic opponent, Mark J. Green, met with union supporters, attended to fund-raising duties and campaigned among liberal voters in Park Slope, Brooklyn.
With Mr. Green well ahead in the polls, interest in the race has focused largely on its impact on the mayoral campaign. Ms. Alter, a Democratic Councilwoman, Orthodox Jew and the only woman seeking citywide office, could draw women, Jewish and conservative Democratic voters to Mr. Giuliani. Mr. Green is popular among liberal and Jewish voters, both important swing constituencies that Mr. Dinkins needs to win. 
 After running a low-profile media campaign for much of the race, Mr. Green has released television commercials in recent days that highlight his accomplishments as the city's Commissioner of Consumer Affairs. Ms. Alter, who has been running commercials for several weeks focusing on her record as a City Councilwoman, has turned to attacking Mr. Green in her most recent spots.
While Ms. Alter has little field operation of her own and will depend heavily on the drawing power of Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Green's aides say they have assembled a citywide corps of 1,000 volunteers who will distribute literature and get out the vote today. They will focus their efforts in areas where Mr. Green can help Mr. Dinkins, particularly in Queens, Mr. Green's aides said.
 
Secession From Both Sides
 Advocates and opponents of a referendum to allow Staten Island to secede from New York City waged their battle across the island yesterday, appearing on television programs, distributing literature on the Staten Island Ferry and appealing to voters in newspaper advertisements -- even though the results of today's vote are considered a foregone conclusion.
Both sides say the referendum will pass easily, but anti-secessionists are hoping to keep the yes vote below 60 percent while pro-secessionists are seeking to push it above 66 percent -- each figure considered an important psychological benchmark.
If the measure passes, it would have to be approved by the Republican-controlled state Senate, the Democratic-controlled state Assembly and Gov. Mario M. Cuomo before Staten Island could become the state's second-largest city.
Opponents, who include unions representing teachers, transit workers and white-collar municipal employees, argue that Staten Island lacks the economic base to survive independently and that secession will lead to tax increases and service cuts. They also contend that zoning laws will be revamped to allow more concentrated development along the island's shores.
But proponents, who include Borough President Guy V. Molinari, most of the local elected officials and the Chamber of Commerce, say government costs can be pared to avoid tax increases. And though there may be protracted litigation with the city over municipal land and buildings, the end result will be a new pride on Staten Island, they say.
"Isn't it worth the price of an ugly divorce to have happiness and freedom?" said Mr. Molinari on WNBC-TV on Sunday.
 
City Council
 Although the Democratic majority in the 51-member Council led by Speaker Peter F. Vallone is in no danger of collapsing, Republican challengers are threatening to take seats away from Democratic incumbents in four races in Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island.
The Council is also virtually assured of picking up three new Democratic members who will replace two members who retired in Brooklyn and one Bronx lawmaker who has been indicted on fraud charges.
The most contested race is on Manhattan's East Side, where the Republican Andrew S. Eristoff, the 30-year-old scion of the Phipps family fortune, is trying to hold onto the seat he won last spring in a special election, spending more than $329,000, much of it his own money, on this race. His challenger, Jane R. Crotty, a school teacher and community board member, came in second in the special election and has strong support from the Democratic Party and unions.
In Brooklyn, Sal F. Albanese, a veteran Democratic lawmaker, is fighting off a stout challenge in a conservative district from Republican Joseph F. DeFina, and on Staten Island, another veteran Democrat, Jerome X. O'Donovan, is up against a strong Republican bid from Lee Covino, an aide to Borough President Guy V. Molinari.
In Queens, the longest serving Democrat in the Council, Walter Ward, who is 82 years old, has a tough contest on his hands from Alphonso C. Stabile, a real-estate investor who has spent more than $100,000 to force Mr. Ward out. And Walter L. McCaffrey, a powerful Democrat from Maspeth, may be in trouble. He faces a tough challenge from James J. Dillon, a former Democrat and community board member.
 
Term Limits
 The supporters and opponents of a referendum that would limit New York City's elected officials to two consecutive terms, or eight years, in office concluded their brief, mostly unpublicized campaigns yesterday with appeals on the air waves and on the streets.
Both sides agree that the referendum, Proposal 4, would bring one of the most radical changes to government in the city's history.
Supporters of the referendum, which reached the ballot largely because of the efforts of Ronald S. Lauder, the cosmetics family heir who ran unsuccessfully for mayor in 1989, expressed confidence that voters frustrated with entrenched incumbency would pass the measure overwhelmingly.
Opponents, including most elected city officials, acknowledge that the referendum has popular support but say limits would deprive voters of their right to choose and force out effective lawmakers with the deadwood.
Former Gov. Hugh L. Carey urged New Yorkers to vote against the referendum. "Don't sell your franchise to some millionaire who wants to run this city with his bankroll," Mr. Carey said.
Lacking the resources of Mr. Lauder, who has spent more than $1 million, the opponents have relied on a grass-roots effort. "As I'm stumping for myself, I'm stumping against term limits as well," said Councilman Walter L. McCaffrey, a Queens Democrat.
The referendum, which the State Court of Appeals ordered on the ballot only two weeks ago, would limit the terms of the mayor, comptroller, public advocate, borough presidents and City Council members.
A New York Post/WNYW-TV poll released yesterday showed 50 percent of voters in favor of the measure and 35 percent opposed, compared with 55 and 29 percent a week ago. The poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 1/2 percentage points.
 
City Comptroller
 The candidates for New York City comptroller spent the final day of campaigning seeking votes from subway commuters and the elderly, revving up supporters at rallies and putting in joint appearances with the two mayoral candidates whose fate may help determine the outcome of their race.
Alan G. Hevesi, 53, the Democratic Assemblyman from Queens who is leading in polls, raised money in the morning and then appealed to voters at a center for the elderly in Queens and a subway stop in lower Manhattan. He appeared with Mayor David N. Dinkins at an afternoon get-out-the-vote youth rally for the Democratic ticket at a downtown hotel and at a dinner in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn. In between events he dropped in on Local 1199 of the hospital workers union, which had endorsed him, to thank campaign volunteers.
Herman Badillo, 64, the former Congressman from the Bronx running on the Republican-Liberal line, crisscrossed the city with Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican-Liberal mayoral candidate, on a hectic schedule that included visits to seven senior centers in Brooklyn and Queens and rallies in all five boroughs.
Mr. Badillo, staging a political comeback since he last held elective office 15 years ago, has made a contest of the race, despite the Democrats' advantage in voter registration, because of his high name recognition and his alliance with a strong mayoral candidate. Mr. Hevesi, however, is shown in polls to be ahead by up to 15 percentage points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC ADVOCATE (NYC) VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (86%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); MAYORS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); REFERENDUMS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); ZONING (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); TEACHER UNIONS (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); CIVIL SERVICES (67%); ISLANDS & REEFS (63%); FERRIES (63%); TAX LAW (62%); APPROVALS (60%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: GREEN, MARK; ALTER, SUSAN D (COUNCILWOMAN) RUDY GIULIANI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



28 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1886 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Investigating Clinton's Links to Arkansas S.& L.

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH with STEPHEN ENGELBERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
Federal investigators are raising questions about ties between President Clinton and an Arkansas businessman, a political patron of Mr. Clinton in the 1980's whose failed savings and loan is now under investigation.
Government officials and lawyers familiar with the case said the President was neither the subject nor a target of the investigation, which is still in its early stages. 
 But the inquiry focuses on questionable financial dealings involving the savings and loan, Madison Guaranty, from which Mr. Clinton benefited both personally and politically. The savings and loan's owner, James McDougal, was one of Mr. Clinton's closest associates in Arkansas and was, at various times, his business partner, political fund-raiser, family banker and senior aide when Mr. Clinton was Governor of Arkansas.
 
Advantageous Relationship
 Mr. Clinton's banking commissioner advised him in 1983 that Mr. McDougal was engaged in questionable banking practices. But the two men nevertheless maintained a business and political relationship throughout the 1980's that helped both men. When Mr. Clinton needed someone to raise $35,000 to retire debts from his 1984 re-election campaign, he turned to Mr. McDougal.
Mr. McDougal denies any wrongdoing. His lawyer, Sam Heuer, said his client was under investigation by the United States Attorney in Little Rock, Ark. Last month the Federal agency that disposes of failed savings and loans, the Resolution Trust Corporation, asked the United States Attorney in Little Rock to examine several possible violations of law in the operations of the savings and loan, including transactions that may have helped Mr. Clinton pay his campaign debts.
According to Federal officials, court documents and lawyers familiar with the case, the two Federal agencies have been trying to find out whether more than $250,000 in business loans was improperly diverted from Madison in April 1985 to several sources, including Governor Clinton's re-election campaign.
The officials said the campaign received $12,000 in cashier's checks from Madison, some of which appeared to have been paid for by the business loans. The former Clinton aide who deposited the money said neither she nor Mr. Clinton was aware of any irregularities about its source.
Investigators have asked prosecutors to see whether the campaign contributions were linked to efforts by Madison to win state approval for an unusual plan to raise new capital by issuing stock, the officials said.
Finally, prosecutors are studying a $300,000 loan from a federally sponsored lending company to Mr. McDougal's wife, Susan. The man who made the loan, David Hale, was indicted in September on unrelated charges.
In an effort to win leniency from prosecutors on the eve of his indictment, Mr. Hale offered prosecutors information about Mr. Clinton and other Arkansas politicians, but was unable to reach a plea agreement. Mr. Hale asserted in interviews with reporters that Mr. Clinton had personally pressed him to make the $300,000 loan.
A White House spokesman said Mr. Clinton had no recollection of any such conversation. Mr. Hale said Mr. McDougal told him the money would help conceal earlier favors for the Governor.
 
New Prosecutor
 The criminal investigations of Madison and Mr. Hale's lending activities are being directed by the new United States Attorney in Little Rock, Paula J. Casey. On Sunday, The Washington Post disclosed the Resolution Trust Corporation's request to Ms. Casey, and The Wall Street Journal reported on the inquiry today.
Mr. Hale's lawyer has questioned Ms. Casey's independence. She was a volunteer in Mr. Clinton's campaigns for governor and was his student at the University of Arkansas law school. Ms. Casey would not discuss the case but told Mr. Hale's lawyer that she was not afraid to prosecute anyone.
Mr. McDougal, who is at the heart of the inquiry into the savings and loan's affairs, continues to blame regulators and prosecutors for his downfall, calling them overzealous. He was acquitted of Federal bank fraud charges involving Madison in 1980.
Mr. McDougal met Mr. Clinton in the late 1960's, when both men worked on the staff of Senator J. William Fulbright, the Arkansas Democrat and longtime chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
 
Ozarks Real Estate Deal
 In 1978, the McDougals brought Mr. Clinton and his wife, Hillary, into a real estate deal, buying 200 acres of the Ozarks in northern Arksansas. Later, the property was transferred to their company, Whitewater Development, with both couples sharing the liabilities and potential profits.
When Mr. Clinton first took office as Governor in 1979, Mr. McDougal joined him as an economic development aide. But he soon returned to business, buying a bank in northern Arkansas and a savings and loan in a small town about 75 miles from Little Rock.
By 1983, Mr. McDougal's bank was in trouble with Arkansas regulators. The state's banking commissioner, Marlin S. Jackson, ordered the bank to stop making imprudent loans. Mr. Jackson, a Clinton appointee, said in an interview last year that he told Mr. Clinton at the time of Mr. McDougal's questionable practices.
Meanwhile, the savings and loan continued to grow, from $6 million in assets to more than $100 million by 1985. It opened a branch in Little Rock near the Statehouse and began making loans to prominent Democrats, including Mr. Fulbright and Jim Guy Tucker, a Little Rock lawyer who is now Governor of Arkansas.
Records also indicate that Madison was helping Whitewater, the real estate business owned by the Clintons and McDougals. In 1984 and 1985, as the company continued to post losses, check ledgers show that the company had frequent, sizable overdrafts on its account at Madison.
Also in 1985, Madison Marketing, a McDougal family business that derived all of its revenue from the savings and loan, provided the funds for Whitewater to make a $7,322 payment on a loan taken out by Mr. Clinton from another bank, according to bank records.
The Clinton Presidential campaign said last year that the McDougals had contributed a disproportionate share of Whitewater's money, $92,000 against $68,000 by the Clintons.
In interviews last year, Mr. McDougal seemed to view his relationship with Mr. Clinton as unbalanced. On the one hand, he said, "Bill never turned me down on something I asked for, and I only asked for it occasionally."
But on the other hand, Mr. McDougal said, he helped the Clintons in numerous ways, from agreeing to hire Mrs. Clinton to do additional legal work at Madison, to paying on Mr. Clinton's behalf part of the loans on the Ozark property.
 
Favors on Both Sides
 Mr. McDougal said in the same interviews that 1985 was a year of favors on both sides. In early 1985, he said, Mr. Clinton asked him to raise enough money to retire about $35,000 in debts left from his 1984 campaign.
Betsey Wright, who ran the 1984 campaign, confirmed that Mr. Clinton had made the request and said it led Mr. McDougal to be the host for a small fund-raising event in 1985 at the savings and loan. Mr. Clinton attended that event.
As for the source of the donations, Ms. Wright said: "I'm sure we would have no idea. Any hint of a problem and we would not have accepted."
At least $12,000 worth of cashier's checks issued by Madison wound up in the campaign's coffers in April 1985, Federal officials said. Some came from a business loan that Madison made to a McDougal associate and was never repaid. The rest was from Mr. McDougal's personal and corporate accounts, the officials said.
Days before Mr. McDougal held his fund-raising event for Mr. Clinton, Madison learned that it faced a serious problem. Federal regulators were concerned by the savings and loan's rapid growth and the failure to have on hand enough capital to meet Federal requirements.
 
State Approval Needed
 Madison's proposal was to raise money to meet the capital requirement by selling a form of stock never issued before in Arkansas by a savings and loan. Because it was a state-chartered institution, Madison needed the approval of Arkansas regulators.
The savings and loan did not rely on its usual outside counsel for this issue, turning instead to the Rose law firm of Little Rock, where Mrs. Clinton was a senior partner. In written answers to questions last year, she said she met with Mr. McDougal once in April 1985 to discuss working for Madison. She declined to elaborate.
In the documents forwarded to prosecutors, investigators for the Resolution Trust Corporation have questioned whether the campaign contributions were connected to Madison's effort to get state regulators to approve its stock plan, Federal officials say. By May, Arkansas regulators had concurred that the stock plan was legal, but it was never carried out.
James M. Lyons, a Denver lawyer who reviewed Mr. Clinton's dealings with Mr. McDougal for the Clinton Presidential campaign last year, said today that there was no connection between the contributions and the effort before the state regulators.
Mr. McDougal, in interviews, denied any impropriety in connection with the campaign contributions or the attempt to win approval for the stock plan.
At the end of 1985, Mr. McDougal said last year, Mr. Clinton did do him another favor, helping set up a state revenue office in a Little Rock building owned by a subsidiary of Madison.
By the fall of 1985, Mr. McDougal faced mounting pressure, some of which came from the prospect of a Federal audit scheduled for early 1986.
David Hale, a Democratic municipal judge in Little Rock who operated a federally sponsored lending company, said he was approached by Mr. McDougal in late 1985 to make loans that would help the "political family" of Arkansas Democrats.
Mr. Hale's company was part of a Small Business Administration program intended to provide capital for businesses owned by "socially or economically disadvantaged" people. Mr. Hale was recently indicted on charges of misleading the Government about the condition of his lending company. He has since resigned as a judge and is contesting the charges.
In interviews before his indictment, Mr. Hale said Madison financed a land deal in February 1986 in which he was paid hundreds of thousands of dollars more than the property was worth. Court records show that this loan was never repaid, resulting in a loss of $672,000 to taxpayers.
 
Questionable Transactions
 With profits from that deal in hand, Mr. Hale said he had been able to fulfill Mr. McDougal's request for a $300,000 loan to his wife.
Mr. Hale said in an interview that Mr. McDougal told him the $300,000 would not be used by the designated borrower. Instead, he said, it would conceal questionable transactions by Madison, including indirect help for the Clintons.
Mr. Hale asserts that Mr. Clinton twice pressed him to make this loan. Mark D. Gearan, the White House communications director, said the President had "no recollection" of any such conversation and did not believe it took place.
Mr. McDougal denied any wrongdoing in his dealings with Mr. Hale, saying he thinks the $300,000 wound up in his real estate ventures.
Federal officials are now trying to trace where the $300,000 lent by Mr. Hale ultimately went.

GRAPHIC: Photos: James McDougal, left, who was one of President Clinton's closest associates in Arkansas, is under investigation in connection with his failed savings and loan. Prosecutors are also studying a $300,000 loan from a federally sponsored lending company to Mr. McDougal's wife, Susan. The loan was made by David Hale, right. (Photographs by The Arkansas Democrat-Gazette)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (96%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GUARANTY SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (54%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUARANTY SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (54%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ARKANSAS, USA (96%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; ETHICS INVESTIGATIONS (94%); LAWYERS (91%); SAVINGS & LOANS (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); BANKING LAW (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (77%); BUSINESS ETHICS (73%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); ETHICS (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MCDOUGAL, JAMES; GERTH, JEFF; ENGELBERG, STEPHEN BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



29 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: The 1993 CAMPAIGN: Final Flurry of Activity as Campaigns Reach End of the Trail -- New Jersey;
Florio and Whitman Wind Up Their Contest Of Unexpected Tactics

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
The last day of campaigning in the race for governor took Jim Florio to Camden, where his political career began, while Christine Todd Whitman, his Republican rival, spread her message to tax-sensitive older voters across the state.
After spending much of the day in the Camden County area he represented as a Congressman, Mr. Florio stopped at North Brunswick High School, attended labor rallies in Newark and Bordentown then ended the day in Cherry Hill. Mrs. Whitman visited housing and nutrition centers for the elderly in Ocean County then attended rallies in Toms River and Hamilton Township. 
 What was surprising about Election Eve 1993 was not where the two candidates found themselves geographically, but where they were politically. The Governor, once considered a hopeless case for a second term, led in an assortment of polls, albeit by a narrower margin than a month ago. Mrs. Whitman, who made her name by nearly toppling Senator Bill Bradley, far more popular than Jim Florio, was struggling to bring off the stunning upset she just missed three years ago.
 
Behind a Difficult Choice
 For their part, New Jersey voters will choose between two candidates who have failed to ignite an enthusiastic following. In successive surveys, nearly half of the New Jerseyans polled said they would be voting against one of the candidates when they entered the voting booth, rather than for his or her opponent. As late as mid-October, only 35 percent said they had a favorable view of Mr. Florio -- but that was twice the 17 percent who thought favorably of Mrs. Whitman. One frequent interpreter of New Jersey folkways, Dr. Clifford Zukin, a professor of political science at the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University, said that New Jersey voters had left themselves with a choice between the devil they know and the devil they don't.
"You have to understand there are only two questions: Do I like the incumbent for four more years?" the professor said. "If the answer is yes, as with Ronald Reagan, then the election is over.
"If it is no, as in the case of George Bush, then you must answer the second question: Is the alternative acceptable?"
And for many voters, he said, the answer to both questions this year is no, and that is why choosing a candidate is so difficult.
 
An Unfulfilled Scenario
 The seeds for this race between Mrs. Whitman and Mr. Florio were planted three years ago when the Governor pushed his $2.8 billion tax program through the Legislature, and Mrs. Whitman rode the ensuing voter anger to a near upset of Senator Bradley. She successfully focused the backlash on the only surrogate Democrat at hand, and her performance immediately marked her as the candidate to take on Mr. Florio this year.
By many measures, Mrs. Whitman gained in the campaign's final week, and many voters indicated that they remained undecided even as they headed to the polls. But political analysts and former party officials say that the expected scenario for campaign 1993 -- the election as a referendum on Mr. Florio that Mrs. Whitman, an attractive newcomer, would press home relentlessly -- never materialized.
Mr. Florio appeared to have some success in defining his own first four years and won grudging admissions from many voters that in retrospect his tax increase was the right medicine for the state. Mrs. Whitman was not successful in casting the increase as folly in the face of a looming recession, or in rekindling the anger that had been directed at the Governor. And her own plan for economic recovery, a 30 percent cut in state income taxes over three years, laid an egg.
According to Neil Upmeyer, president of the Center for the Analysis of Public Issues in Princeton, a nonpartisan organization, Mrs. Whitman's tax cut plan was the greatest surprise of the campaign. "She built up expectations and said the campaign wouldn't really start until she released her plan," he said. "Well, the campaign never started because when the plan came out, it was such a slapdash effort, it was all over."
 
Florio Takes the Offensive
 A poll taken right after the plan was released showed that 70 percent of the voters did not believe it was possible.
Professor Zukin of Rutgers also noted that Mr. Florio managed in some cases to define the debate in terms of issues he wanted to emphasize, like his opposition to assault guns. "Crime, which is always an important issue in an election, became assault weapons, and urban issues became deadbeat dads," he said. "When Mrs. Whitman came back from her summer vacation, she responded to his issues and played on his playing field."
While the Whitman campaign was hoarding its powder for a fall campaign, Mr. Florio's campaign was busy defining Mrs. Whitman as a gentrified neophyte who lacked the qualifications for the job she sought and depicting the Governor as a strong leader who had made difficult, if unpopular, choices.
In another surprise, Mr. Florio managed to move to the right of his Republican opponent on issues of crime (by supporting mandatory prison sentences) and welfare reform. "Instead of being depicted simply as a 'tax and spend liberal,' Florio outflanked her on some issues that appeal to conservatives and I think it has helped him," said Thomas V. O'Neil, a former executive director of the Democratic State Committee and former aide to Governor Brendan T. Byrne.
Mr. Upmeyer agreed that Mr. Florio had adopted much more conservative positions on some issues, but said that change had happened over the last two years. "I think it's designed to bring back the so-called Reagan Democrats and woo the Perot voters as well," he said.
To the political professionals, it was also puzzling that Mrs. Whitman chose to go on vacation soon after the Republican primary in June and then campaign sparingly until Labor Day. "She had been campaigning for the governorship flat out since 1990, and then she takes a summer vacation this year on the theory that all you need to do is to work hard the last few weeks," Mr. O'Neil marveled.
But perhaps the biggest surprise was that the campaign was largely devoid of any discussion of programs or proposals for the next four years. Beyond broad statements about working "to attract jobs" and "improve education" the candidates spend much of their time and advertising budgets either launching personal attacks or defending themselves against them. Mrs. Whitman's ill-received tax-cut plan was the exception that proved the rule.
"If Florio wins," said Alan Marcus, a lobbyist and former Republican campaign consultant, "he could take the next four years off, because he was never forced to say what he envisions for his second term."
 There will be elections today, Nov. 2, in New York State, New Jersey and Connecticut.
 
Information on Voting
 There will be elections today, Nov. 2, in New York State, New Jersey and Connecticut.
 Polls will be open in New York State from 6 A.M. to 9 P.M., in New Jersey from 7 A.M. to 8 P.M. and in Connecticut from 6 A.M. to 8 P.M.
For information on polling places in New York City, voters can call the New York City Board of Elections Voter Information Hot Line -- (212) VOTE-NYC, or (212) 868-3692 -- or the New York Public Interest Research Group at (212) 349-6986.
For polling places in Westchester County call the County Board of Elections: (914) 285-5700. The Nassau County Board of Election is (516) 571-2411 and in Suffolk County the County Board of Elections is (516) 852-4500.
For information on polling places in New Jersey and in Connecticut voters can call county or municipal election boards.
For the first time, Connecticut residents will be required to produce valid identification, like drivers' licenses, credit cards or utility bills, to vote. The new requirement, meant to cut down on voter fraud, was passed by the Legislature earlier this year.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Jim Florio and his wife, Lucinda, greeting students after speaking at North Brunswick High School (Dith Pran/The New York Times); Christine Todd Whitman speaking with an aide, Keith Nahigian, as she was introduced yesterday at the Eleanor Levovitz Senior Center in Lakewood on the last day of her campaign to unseat Mr. Florio. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHERRY HILL TOYOTA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PUBLIC OPINION GOVERNORS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COUNTIES (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD; SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



30 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: The 1993 CAMPAIGN: Nassau;
Rivals Portray Two Counties: One Content, One Aggrieved

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MINEOLA, L.I., Nov. 1

 BODY:
As an accordionist played "Hail, Hail, the Gang's All Here," Thomas S. Gulotta, the Nassau County Executive, strode confidently into a senior center in his hometown of North Merrick this afternoon, where he hugged elderly residents and called this suburban county a "warm and caring" place.
It was an appeal to his most loyal voters, the people who voted a generation ago for Mr. Gulotta's father, a prominent Republican who served as District Attorney, and who have remained devoted to Mr. Gulotta over his 18-year political career. 
 At roughly the same time, a few miles away, Benjamin L. Zwirn, the Democratic candidate, stood outside in the cold, in front of a house with three large Zwirn campaign signs, and complained about the county's high taxes. Because of the signs, Mr. Zwirn charged, Republicans acting like "street hoodlums" had harassed the family living there.
Standing with Mr. Zwirn was the homeowner, Annette Saccoccio, 33, who said she had voted for Mr. Gulotta in the last election but is now furious with the Republicans. "This is not how American politics is supposed to work," she said.
 
Reaching the Bitter End
 On the final day of the campaign, the candidates continued to present divergent views of life in the county, from its economy to the state of the campaign. While each criticized the other's political tactics as dirty, neither wandered far from the basic messages they have delivered for months.
At the senior center and in other appearances over the last few days, Mr. Gulotta was upbeat about the county, saying its unemployment and crime rates were low. In contrast, Mr. Zwirn insisted that voters were angry over high taxes and that the election would reveal their readiness for substantial change.
Many Democrats say that Mr. Zwirn, the Supervisor of the Town of North Hempstead, has the best chance in a generation to win the county executive's job, a position held by Republicans since 1970. The Nassau Republican organization was considered vulnerable this year because of the faltering economy and because the party had lost a number of elections in recent years.
A Newsday poll released on Sunday found that 52 percent of likely voters planned to vote for Mr. Gulotta, to Mr. Zwirn's 39 percent, with 7 percent undecided. The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.
Mr. Zwirn this afternoon dismissed the poll as "horsefeathers," predicting a "tremendous upset" on Tuesday. "Many people are afraid to tell pollsters how they really feel," he said, because the Republicans control an elaborate patronage system and threaten those who do not toe the line.
Mr. Zwirn added that the Republicans would do almost anything to maintain their "one-party rule," and cited Mr. Gulotta's advertising campaign, the most expensive in county history, as an example of how the Republicans had tried to smear him as an ultra-liberal when he insists he is a fiscal conservative.
"It is the big lie," he said. "From the pictures they use to the distortions of my record, that has been their whole campaign."
Mr. Gulotta, however, said that the accusation showed that Mr. Zwirn's campaign was coming apart.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NASSAU COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; COUNTY EXECUTIVES COUNTIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); POLITICS (76%); LAWYERS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); SUBURBS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); AGING (57%); CRIME RATES (50%); 

PERSON: GULOTTA, THOMAS S (COUNTY EXEC); ZWIRN, BENJAMIN L (SUPERVISOR)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



31 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: Doris Duke Leaves $1 Billion to a New Charitable Foundation

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Doris Duke, the tobacco heiress and philanthropist who was one of the world's richest women, left the bulk of her $1.2 billion estate to charity but nothing to a disowned adopted daughter with whom she had been feuding, according to a will filed for probate in a Manhattan court yesterday.
Miss Duke, who died last Thursday at the age of 80 after a life of luxury and generosity that attracted cranks and drove her into partial seclusion in her later years, left most of her estate -- more than $1 billion -- to a new Doris Duke Charitable Foundation that will become one of the nation's best-endowed philanthropies. 
 It will not rival the richest foundations -- Ford and Kellogg each have assets of more than $6 billion and a half-dozen others have more than $3 billion -- but it would rank among the top 12 and would provide funds for performing arts, environmental and ecological causes, education, the prevention of cruelty to children and animals, and medical research, all causes Miss Duke supported in her lifetime.
"The foundation will be dedicated to the improvement of humanity," Miss Duke, who dabbled in jazz piano and dance and was an ardent opponent of medical experiments on living animals, declared in the will, signed last April and filed yesterday in New York County Surrogate's Court.
 
Annuity for Executor
 Miss Duke's closest friend and adviser, Bernard Lafferty, 48, who was hired six years ago as a butler with administrative duties and since became her most trusted confidant, was named executor of the will and a trustee of the foundation that will control most of her fortune. The will also named a friend, Marian Oates Charles, as a trustee, but gave Mr. Lafferty authority to appoint the other three members of the board.
Mr. Lafferty, who has appointed the United States Trust Company of New York to serve as co-executor of the will, also was left a lifetime annuity of $500,000 a year.
Miss Duke's will also sets up or enlarges other foundations to benefit endangered wildlife, ecological causes and Southeast Asian art and culture, and makes specific bequests of $10 million each to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and Duke University in Durham, N.C., which was named for the family, and $1 million to the New York Zoological Society.
Miss Duke was the only child of James Buchanan Duke, who made fortunes as president of the American Tobacco Company and other interests and died in 1925, when she was 13. Her share of his $100 million estate was appraised in 1927 at $50 million, and she acquired more on her 25th and 30th birthdays. Her estate grew over the decades, mainly through investments and inflation.
Her palatial estates -- a New Jersey farm and a mansion in Newport, R.I., a Park Avenue penthouse in Manhattan, a Beverly Hills home and a Hawaiian retreat called Shangri-La -- also will be used to benefit charities, with some sold and others turned into museums.
Miss Duke's main residence, Duke Farms, a 2,700-acre ducal estate in Somerville, N.J., with a 30-room stone manor house, a private theater for her beloved movies, and with parks, farmlands and 42 miles of private roads, will be turned over to the various newly created Doris Duke foundations.
 
Homes Into Museums
 Her Newport, R.I., home, known as Rough Point, and Shangri-La, her vacation home on the coast of Oahu, are to be left to charitable foundations and turned into museums. The Beverly Hills home, formerly owned by Rudolph Valentino, and her Park Avenue penthouse will probably be sold and the proceeds given to the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, lawyers familiar with the will said.
Miss Duke's closest surviving relative, Walker P. Inman Jr., a nephew, was left a $350,000-a-year annuity, but six cousins with whom she was not close, including Angier Biddle Duke, a former United States ambassador to Spain, Denmark and Morocco, were not named in the will.
Miss Duke also left sums ranging from $500,000 to $3 million to friends and bequests and annuities to scores of employees and confidantes. The largest cash bequest was $3 million to a friend, Eleanor Lawson, but Miss Duke also left $1 million each to four other friends, and 150 employees at her various estates received bequests based on their salaries and years of service.
Besides specific bequests, Miss Duke also forgave several unpaid loans that she had made to friends and acquaintances over the years.
But she directed her executor to collect $5 million that her friend Imelda Marcos, the wife of former Philippine president Ferdinand Marcos, had borrowed in 1988 to post bail after being indicted on Federal racketeering charges in New York. But the will said Mrs. Marcos need not repay the loan until she and the Philippine Government settle their longstanding financial dispute.
Miss Duke left some harsh words but no money in her will for her adopted daughter, Charlene Gail Heffner, who earlier this year filed a lawsuit in New Jersey seeking to be named the beneficiary of Miss Duke's estate. Ms. Heffner, known as Chandi, was adopted by Miss Duke in 1988, when she was 35 and Miss Duke was 75, but by 1991 their relationship had collapsed.
Ms. Heffner, a former adherent of the Hare Krisna religious group, contended in her lawsuit that Miss Duke had promised to make her the heir of her estate and to take care of her for the rest of her life in the style to which she had become accustomed during their few years together.
Miss Duke denied these contentions in court and sought to have the lawsuit dismissed, but a judge upheld Ms. Heffner's right to sue and the matter is still pending. Legal observers said the case would be closely watched because of its enormous potential consequences for the many charities that stand to benefit under Miss Duke's will.
And Miss Duke left no doubt about her feelings on the matter in her will, which stated that Ms. Heffner "not be deemed to be my child for purposes of disposing of my property under this [will]."
Miss Duke's will went on: "I am extremely troubled by the realization that Chandi Heffner may use my 1988 adoption of her (when she was 35 years old) to attempt to benefit financially under the terms of trusts created by my father. After giving the matter prolonged and serious consideration, I am convinced that I should not have adopted Chandi Heffner.
"I have come to the realization that her primary motive was financial gain. I believe that, like me, my father would not have wanted her to have benefitted under the trusts which he created, and similarly, I do not wish her to benefit from my estate."
Benjamin P. Michel, a Morristown, N.J., lawyer who represents Ms. Heffner, said yesterday that the lawsuit to gain control of the estate would continue. He declined to comment on the will, saying he had not yet seen a copy. But he said Miss Duke's comments on Ms. Heffner in the will "make no sense at all, given the nature of the relationship." He added: "It is very peculiar that such things could be said, even in the context of the lawsuit having been brought."
He said the lawsuit contended that Miss Duke had left Ms. Heffner in Hawaii "without a word as to anything having happened between the two of them," and that "thereafter they only spoke twice, and there was no word as to the why or wherefore of her abrupt departure. She just left with Bernard, the butler."
Mr. Michel identified Mr. Lafferty as a "personal traveling butler," who generally was with Miss Duke at her various homes and on her many journeys around the world. "As far as I know, he's the butler," Mr. Michel said.
Others familiar with Miss Duke's affairs said that Mr. Lafferty had been hired by Miss Duke six years ago as a butler, but that he had quickly become a confidant and adviser. Calling him the butler, they said, appeared to be an attempt to denigrate the closeness of his relationship to Miss Duke.
"She was the most important person in his life and he the most important person in her life," said Lloyd Kaplan of Howard J. Rubenstein Associates, a public relations firm representing Miss Duke. "They discussed every important decision and had a community of interests in art and culture. She had enormous respect and regard for him."
Emily Rafferty, vice president for development and membership of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, said of the $10 million bequest: "It's obviously enormously generous. To my knowledge, we did not expect it. She was generous to this museum over the years, since the early 1980's." She said museum officials had not yet determined how the bequest would be used.
At Duke University, where chapel bells tolled 80 times and flags were at half-staff for Miss Duke last week, there were expressions of gratitude. "Miss Duke's bequest continues the remarkable philanthropic tradition of the Duke family to the university," Nannerl O. Keohane, the president, said. She recalled that Miss Duke's father had provided a founding endowment of $40 million in 1924, and that Miss Duke had given the university $2 million last year for AIDS research.
William M. Doyle Jr., a lawyer representing the estate's executors, said Miss Duke had envisioned that the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, which will receive the bulk of her estate, would eventually become one of the nation's top philanthropic organizations, aiding causes for generations like the Ford, Rockefeller, MacArthur and other foundations.
In addition to the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, the will establishes the Doris Duke Foundation for the Preservation of Endangered Wildlife and the Doris Duke Foundation for the Preservation of New Jersey Farmland and Farm Animals. Other organizations established by Miss Duke during her lifetime will also benefit, including the Newport Restoration Foundation, the Duke Gardens Foundation and the Foundation for Southeast Asian Art and Culture.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Doris Duke, the tobacco heiress who died last Thursday, left the bulk of her $1.2 billion estate to charity and nothing to a disowned adopted daughter. (The New York Times, 1972)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DUKE, DORIS, CHARITABLE FOUNDATION UNITED STATES TRUST CO OF NEW YORK (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE, DORIS, CHARITABLE FOUNDATION

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WILLS AND ESTATES; PHILANTHROPY FOUNDATIONS (93%); CHARITIES (93%); PHILANTHROPY (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); WILLS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (88%); ANIMALS (87%); PROBATE (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); ZOOLOGY (72%); CHILD ABUSE (72%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); JAZZ & BLUES (67%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (67%); WILDLIFE (67%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (67%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (54%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (50%); 

PERSON: DUKE, DORIS; MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; LAFFERTY, BERNARD; HEFFNER, CHARLENE GAIL

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



32 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Dow Rises 12.02 Points to Another Record

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
Another batch of encouraging economic news pushed blue-chip stocks to a new record yesterday but failed to ignite a broader rally. Investors seemed to be waiting for more information on the pace of the recovery before deciding whether to blanket the market with buy orders.
The Dow Jones industrial average hit its third record in about a week, rising 12.02 points, to 3,692.61. The Dow Jones transportation average, which has churned relentlessly through records in recent days, again reached another high, jumping 15.17 points, to 1,742.24. 
 But most of the rise in industrials came from International Paper, up 2 1/4 to 61 3/4, and I.B.M., up 1 3/4, to 47 3/4. Of the 30 stocks in the index, 14 were up, 14 were down and 2 were unchanged. Over all, about 10 stocks advanced on the New York Stock Exchange for every 9 that declined, indicating there was little depth to yesterday's gains.
The enthusiasm appeared to be limited mostly to the cyclicals -- stocks whose earnings tend to be linked to the economy -- and technology issues on both the Big Board and the secondary markets.
Traders said the cyclicals increased because investors were responding to the National Association of Purchasing Management's report that the domestic manufacturing sector expanded in October, while the Commerce Department reported that construction spending rose eight-tenths of 1 percent.
"People are betting that the economy is perking up," said William Raftery, vice president for technical research at Smith Barney Shearson.
He added that investors were also awaiting the Government's report about the October job market, to be released on Friday.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 256 million shares. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks rose 1.27 points, to 469.10. The American Stock Exchange composite index increased 1.13 points, to 482.57. And the Nasdaq composite index shot up 4.51 points, to 783.77.
Among the cyclicals that rose yesterday were Allied Signal, up 1 to 72 5/8; CSX, up 1 1/2, to 82 1/2, and PPG Industries, up 1 1/2, to 71 1/4.
Paper stocks, which fell on Friday ahead of new industry regulations for air and water pollutants issued yesterday by the Environmental Protection Agency, rebounded. Besides International Paper, Georgia-Pacific jumped 2 3/8, to 66 5/8; Louisiana Pacific rose 2 1/8, to 38 3/8, and Weyerhaeuser rose 1, to 40 5/8.
Despite the gains in the cyclicals, some analysts stressed that the market remained choppy. Rao Chalasani, chief investment strategist for Kemper Securities in Chicago, pointed out that the Dow Jones utility index rose only 0.40 point yesterday, to 241.17, and has slumped recently.
He said the drop reflected a simmering fear that after months of declines, interest rates would again rise. Utility companies are capital-intensive, so their stocks are sensitive to swings in interest rates.
The yield on the Treasury's main 30-year bond rose to 6.02 percent yesterday from 5.96 percent on Friday. Stocks often suffer when bond yields rise because investors switch to fixed-rate securities and corporate borrowing becomes more costly.
"The thing that has moved the market forward is that interest rates were going down," Mr. Chalasani said. "That may not be happening anymore.
"What you really have here is a rotation move still going on in the market where the technology stocks and some of the laggards -- like I.B.M. and Philip Morris -- are doing well. But you don't really have much participation."

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PPG (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (57%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (57%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3211 FLAT GLASS (52%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); NYSE MKT LLC (53%); PPG INDUSTRIES INC (52%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STOCK INDEXES (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PAPER MFG (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BONDS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (67%); EMPLOYMENT (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); WATER POLLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



33 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: The 1993 CAMPAIGN: The Long Shots;
Candidates Who March To Different Drummers

BYLINE: By KIMBERLY J. McLARIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
There is another choice.
Contrary to what many disgruntled voters believe, the contest in the governor's race Tuesday is not simply between Christine Todd Whitman and Gov. Jim Florio. Seventeen independent candidates are also vying for the governorship, making this year's ballot the most crowded in history. 
 The independent candidates range from the experienced to the eccentric. They include a populist and a poet, a Libertarian and a candidate who wants to ship all criminals to the former Soviet Union.
Most have little money to get their message out. Many had no statewide exposure until last week, when New Jersey Network broadcast two half-hour programs showing 13 of the candidates reading prepared statements. Four candidates declined the network's invitation.
Here are the 17 candidates, their party affiliations, and brief descriptions of their positions:
Alene S. Ammond, For the People. Ms. Ammond, of Cherry Hill, is a former Democratic state senator, an advertising agency president and the director of an outfit called Public Policy Research Project. Ms. Ammond criticizes both major parties for links to special interests. She said she is the only independent candidate who can unseat Mr. Florio: "Only a new way of thinking and managing will reign in a government that is out of control."
Marilyn Arons, Maximum Citizen Involvement. Ms. Arons, of Teaneck, founder of a parents' rights group, says education is the central issue. She supports abortion rights, opposes capital punishment and proposes merging the education and human services operations of the state.
Tom Blomquist, New Jersey Conservative Party. Mr. Blomquist, of Brick Township, is making his second independent run for governor. He calls for term limits, an annual limit on property tax increases, and favors giving voters the right to abolish county governments.
Pat Daly, Abortion Is Murder. Ms. Daly, of Red Bank, is running as an anti-abortion candidate. Her ballot statement includes a call for teaching the Bible in public schools.
Pete Di Lauro, Common Sense Government. Mr. Di Lauro, of Leonardo, is a retired New York City police officer and a member of the state chapter of United We Stand, the Ross Perot group. "After choosing the less of two evils from both major political parties, we must come to the realization that this rationale just doesn't work," he said in his ballot statement.
Timothy S. Feeney, The Independent Choice. Mr. Feeney, a dentist from Little Falls, wants to cut government spending and increase mass transportation.
Tom Fuscaldo, Zero Sales Tax. Mr. Fuscaldo wants to end the sales tax and repeal the state semiautomatic weapons ban. "God bless friends in taxpayer associations, Right to Life, N.R.A., beekeeper associations and bottle collectors," said his ballot statement.
Jerry T. Grant, You and I. Mr. Grant, a car salesman of New Egypt, says he is a conservative. His ballot statements say he has a "very definite set of plans to return the government to the people," but does not say what they are. "Voting for Jerry T. Grant is like voting for yourself and voting for both you and I would be nice for a change," he said on his ballot statement.
Kenneth Kaplan, Libertarian Party. Mr. Kaplan, of Livingston, calls for privatizing the public school system and ending the war on drugs.
John L. Kucek, Populist Party. Mr. Kucek, a certified public accountant from North Plainfield, opposes gun control, calls for a ceiling on property taxes and proposes exporting criminals to the "now vacant Soviet gulags."
Andrea Lippi, People Purpose Progress. Mr. Lippi, formerly of Philadelphia and now of Goshen, is a real-estate investor who submitted "An Ode to New Jersey" as his ballot statement. It read, in part:
Along the Delaware and the Hudson
From ocean beaches to mountain high,
In a mecca of earthly beauty
Does the State of New Jersey lie.
Richard J. Lynch, Independents 4 Change. Mr. Lynch, a businessman of Moorestown, said he would bring a businessman's sensibility to the governorship. He said he would reduce the budget by $4 million a year for two years and train state managers to prepare zero-based budgets.
Joseph Marion, Independent Party. Mr. Marion, of Ho-Ho-Kus, is a businessman who promises to cut government bureaucracy and create jobs by focusing on the needs of small business.
Mark J. Rahn, Socialist Workers Party. Mr. Rahn said he would fight to build an international workers' movement to demand, among other things, a 30-hour workweek and an emergency public-works program for cities.
Michael R. Scully, Fresh Start. Mr. Scully, a lawyer from Hawthorne, said he would repeal the entire tax package passed by the legislature in 1990. He said both major party candidates have ignored education, crime, health care and race relations.
Andrew Zemel, Integrity-Common Sense. Mr. Zemel, of South Orange, has a five-point "E plan" that includes unspecified measures on education, employment, economy, environment and equal opportunity.
Michael Ziruolo, Better Affordable Government. Mr. Ziruolo is a Jersey City tenants' rights advocate who ran for governor in 1989.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (52%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PEROT GROUP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) GOVERNORS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ABORTION (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); COUNTIES (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); SALES TAX (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (65%); PROPERTY TAX (63%); TAX LAW (63%); RELIGION (62%); POLICE FORCES (61%); 

PERSON: MCLARIN, KIMBERLY J CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



34 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Key Corporate Tax Case to Be Heard

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
Accepting a state tax case with important implications for international tax policy, the Supreme Court agreed today to decide whether the Constitution limits the ability of states to tax multinational corporations on a portion of their earnings beyond the state's borders.
The Court's action surprised nearly everyone who has followed the case, and handed the Clinton Administration a political predicament as unwelcome as it was unexpected. 
 At issue is a method that California applied until last month to tax the income of both foreign and domestic multinational corporations.
 
The 'Unitary' Approach

 
 The method, known as worldwide combined reporting, made no distinction between subsidiaries doing business in California and those operating elsewhere. The entire business was instead treated as "unitary" and subject to California tax on a portion of its worldwide income reflecting California's share of its overall property, payroll and sales.
The California approach has long angered the United States' trading partners. The Federal Government, as well as most states and foreign countries, uses an arm's-length accounting method under which each affiliated corporation is treated as a separate entity, subject to tax only in the jurisdiction in which it operates and for the income it realizes on its own books.
The California law was challenged by the London-based Barclays Bank in a tax-refund suit that had the support not only of the British Government, but also of the Bush Administration when the case first reached the Court in early 1992. At that time, the Court declined for procedural reasons to hear the case.
 
Candidate Clinton's Stance
 Campaigning then in California as a Presidential candidate, Bill Clinton promised California tax officials that in contrast to the Bush White House, "a Clinton Administration will be pro-California in this litigation."
Barclays, which lost its case before the California Court of Appeal, appealed again to the Supreme Court earlier this year, and the Justices asked the Clinton Administration for its views.
Faced with balancing longstanding Federal tax policy against the President's campaign promise, the Administration held off until last month, acting a day after the California Legislature repealed the disputed tax policy amid increasing pressure from the state's corporate taxpayers. Skirting the legal merits of the case, the Administration's brief said there was now no need to consider Barclays's appeal.
The Court today, however, granted review not only in Barclays case, Barclays v. Franchise Tax Board, No. 92-1384, but also agreed to hear another challenge to the California law brought by the Colgate-Palmolive Company. Like Barclays, Colgate is a multinational, but unlike Barclays, it is based in the United States.
Ten years ago, in a landmark tax case, Container Corporation v. Franchise Tax Board, the Supreme Court upheld the application of California's unitary tax to a domestic multinational, so the Court's action today was especially surprising. By granting review in Colgate-Palmolive v. Franchise Tax Board, No. 92-1839, the Court is at least implying that this entire approach to taxation is under review and that the Container case could be overruled.
In the 1983 Container decision, the Court did not address the application of the California tax to foreign multinationals, saying only that the outcome would be governed by the Constitution's foreign commerce clause, which gives Congress the power "to regulate commerce with foreign nations."
In light of today's action, the question now seems to be whether the foreign commerce clause really makes a difference in the Court's analysis, or whether the two situations should be treated similarly.
Several other states have laws like California's former law, but none of those states come close to having an economy the size of California's. California says it faces a potential refund liability of $4 billion if its former tax is found to be unconstitutional. "I'd be concerned if I were California," Mark L. Evans, a tax lawyer here who has followed the cases, said today.
 
Cigarette Tax Case From New York
 In another tax-related case, the Court accepted an appeal from the New York State Department of Taxation and agreed to decide whether the state can regulate the sale of cigarettes on Indian reservations.
Sales made on reservations to Indian purchasers cannot be taxed, under a doctrine known as tribal sovereign immunity. Sales made on reservations to non-Indians are subject to tax, but states have typically had difficulty enforcing the law because many non-Indians visit reservations to buy untaxed merchandise.
The New York Court of Appeals ruled in the summer, in a suit brought by a non-Indian wholesaler, that New York's latest effort, a coupon system intended to limit a tribe's acquisition of untaxed cigarettes to the amount that tribal members will actually consume, was pre-empted by Federal law. The state's appeal is New York v. Milhelm Attea Bros., No. 93-377.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CL (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES TAX LAW (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); APPEALS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); JURISDICTION (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



35 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Data Show Factories Picking Up

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
The economy's manufacturing sector expanded in October for the first time in five months, with 15 of 20 industries surpassing their September performance, the National Association of Purchasing Management reported today.
The sharp increase in the association's monthly index of manufacturing activity, to 53.8 percent from 49.7 percent, was bigger than expected and confirmed the views of various analysts that the economy's general acceleration was spreading to factories. 
 The association's report is based on data collected from purchasing executives in more than 300 companies. The index measures the percentage of positive responses plus half of those calling conditions unchanged. A reading above 50 percent means the factory sector is expanding; sustained readings above 44.5 percent mean the overall economy is expanding.
 
'All 8 Cylinders'
 "We're probably at a point where we may have an economy hitting on all eight cylinders," contended Thomas F. Carpenter, chief economist for ASB Capital Management, a Washington investment manager.
In a second encouraging report today, construction spending -- from homes to highways -- climbed eight-tenths of 1 percent in September, according to the Commerce Department. While the gain appeared no larger than anticipated, it came on top of sizable upward revisions for both July and August.
The survey of purchasing managers, the first important indicator published each month, reflected the fastest manufacturing pace since February of the economy at large.
 
Backlog Termed Improved
 "A surge in new orders provided the fuel for significant improvement in the over-all economy and a sharp reversal in the manufacturing sector toward healthy growth," said Robert J. Bretz, chairman of the trade group's survey committee. "Moreover, the significant improvement in the backlog of orders suggests continued growth in this final quarter of 1993."
Despite these advances, analysts said that new factory jobs were likely to remain scarce.
"There's ample inventory on hand to meet the first wave of further increases in demand," said David H. Resler, chief economist for Nomura Securities International in New York. "So it's not likely to translate very quickly into more hiring."
Factory jobs declined again in October, though at a slower pace, with the result that the association's employment index moved up a point, to 45.5 percent, the highest since March.
A common expectation is that the Labor Department's monthly labor market report, to be published Friday, will show factory jobs stopped declining in October.
Another cautionary voice today was that of Gordon Richards, economist for the National Association of Manufacturers. He said that the size of the jump in the purchasing managers' index should be considered a "statistical anomaly" since the index has for several months risen much more slowly than the Federal Reserve index of industrial production.
 
Autos' Fast Pace
 In addition to this "catching up," Mr. Richards said, the October advance reflected an unsustainably high pace of auto assemblies that would reverse later this quarter.
The industries posting the biggest improvement last month, the report showed, were plastics and rubber; furniture; fabricated metals; leather; electronic components and equipment; transportation equipment; petroleum; food; primary metals, and chemicals.
The least improvement was in textiles; tobacco; printing, and glass, stone and aggregate.
Production and new orders climbed to their highest rates since March and January, respectively, while backlogs of orders grew substantially after falling in September, the report also showed. New export orders rose for the third straight month while imports declined slightly for the fourth straight month.
The construction report showed spending on public projects jumped 1.7 percent while the private-sector gain, concentrated in residential work, was held to three-tenths of 1 percent, the department found.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Construction Spending" shows the total construction spending in billions of dollars from April 1992-Sept. 1993. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL INC (52%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); NEW ORDERS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (57%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



36 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Science Desk

LENGTH: 2695 words

HEADLINE: A Voyage Into the Abyss: Gloom, Gold and Godzilla

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

DATELINE: ABOARD ATLANTIS 2

 BODY:
FLASHES of light from luminescent creatures swirled in the darkness past our windows as we descended a mile and a half to a fiery gash on the ocean floor, to what scientists increasingly see as a colossal, hidden engine of creation.
After falling for more than an hour, we switched on the lights of our tiny, three-person submarine. There, barely illuminated in the gloom, some 250 miles off the Oregon coast, lay endless fields of gnarled lava, frozen in the midst of an eruptive frenzy by the icy sea water. 
 A string of scientific discoveries have revealed that over the eons such rocks have played a major role in shaping the planet. Volcanic fissures in the ocean floor gird the earth like seams on a baseball. All told, they measure some 40,000 miles. Though hidden from sight, zigging this way and that through the deep, often veiled by undersea mountains, they make up one of the planet's dominant and most dynamic features.
Spewing molten lava and blistering hot water, these rifts of fire are the place where planetary crust is formed, where oceans and continents are created, where the sea gets much of its chemical identity, where precious metals like gold are concentrated and where bizarre creatures that never see sunlight feast on chemicals made by the earth's inner heat. Perhaps most important, they are the place where life itself may have begun billions of years ago.
Our tiny submarine, Alvin, was just ending a 16-day voyage of discovery to one corner of this alien world, the Juan de Fuca ridge off the West Coast of the United States.
The effort was prompted by a recent undersea eruption here, which, in an oceanographic first, was monitored by scientists as the sea floor shook and then studied by six expeditions from the United States and Canada. The last and largest of these featured Alvin, whose mission was to probe deeper than ever before into the heart of undersea creation.
Among other things, we found the sea floor alive with fresh flows of lava and blizzards of white bacteria surging upward on hot-water plumes. After days of frustration caused by bad weather and enigmatic clues of deep activity in one area, we discovered a field of towering chimneys spewing super-hot water and surrounded by strange forms of life, some apparently never before seen.
There were thickets of tiny tube worms, odd growths of beard-like bacteria, legions of tiny white crab-like creatures and, on rocks facing some mineral towers, delicate networks of colonial organisms whose tentacles reached out toward the monoliths like worshipers at a temple. Scientists said these creatures appeared to be corals, which if true would be a first.
"It's exciting as hell!" said Dr. John R. Delaney, a geologist from the University of Washington who led the expedition. "I'm blown away that they pay me to do this stuff."
 
The History
 From Dead Abyss To Cradle of Life
 The ocean abysses used to be thought of as geologically dead and having only a thin population of bizarre fish, mainly scavengers living off a drizzle of detritus from above. It was considered a graveyard, basically inert and irrelevant.
Discoveries over the last 40 years have shown the truth to be the opposite. The abysses are the birthplace of the fissures where the ocean plates are moving apart, so that the line of fissures along the mid-Atlantic, say, mirrors the coastlines of the once united continents between which the Atlantic emerged.
The abysses also teem with special forms of life that cluster around vents of very hot water and are adapted to the heat and chemistry of the volcanic eruptions. The first community of strange animals was discovered in 1977 off the Galapagos Islands. These animals thrived on substances that to all others were toxic.
As similar communities were found on other midocean ridges, scientists theorized that life on Earth may have begun at undersea geysers, nurtured by a steady diet of warm chemicals and protected from hurtling rocks and blasts of radiation from outer space that pounded the planet's surface in its early days.
 
A Chimney Named Godzilla
 Among the strangest discoveries at the hot vents were giant towers of rock, dubbed chimneys and smokers, that discharged very hot water, often gray or jet black. The towers built as suspended minerals in the super-hot fluid were precipitated by icy sea water. One such structure recently discovered on the Juan de Fuca ridge is more than 15 stories high. It is nicknamed Godzilla. Nearby vents gush water as hot as 750 degrees, which is kept from boiling by the crushing pressures of the abyss. Mineral-rich plumes from such vents have been found to spread across thousands of miles of ocean.
By some estimates, up to 70 percent of the earth's internal heat flows through such zones, which every eight million years filter a volume of water equal to all the world's oceans. Such processes play major roles in determining the planet's heat and chemical balances.
Gold was found in some vents during the 1980's, igniting a rush of precious-metal analysis. Many billions of dollars' worth of rich ores, including zinc, silver, gold and copper, were soon estimated to lie hidden among the midocean rifts. In March 1983, President Ronald Reagan nearly doubled the size of the United States by declaring sovereignty over nearby ocean floors, inspired in part by the allure of sea-bed riches.
To date, private companies have found mining the deep ocean too expensive. But they have raced to exploit the new findings for clues to mineral wealth on land, hunting for slices of ancient sea floor.
"The work on the ridges is really in its infancy," said Dr. Randolph A. Koski, an economic geologist on the voyage from the United States Geological Survey. Among other things, his agency is assessing the likelihood of an undersea gold rush sometime in the future. To date, Dr. Koski said, less than 1 percent of the volcanic ridges have been studied close up.
 
The Breakthrough
 Researchers Rush To Site of Eruption
 The mysteries of this world are many. For instance, no one knows for sure how water flows through the midocean ridges, whether from the sides or along the axes. In general, deep hot rock is thought to cause the sea floor to crack. Water then trickles down, encounters magma and is heated. The hot fluid leaches minerals out of the ocean crust as it flows upward to the surface. But this is just an educated guess, scientists stress.
"The dynamics are basically unknown," said Dr. H. Paul Johnson, a physicist at the University of Washington who was on the voyage to study geomagnetism as a clue to vent action.
No detailed studies have been done of active volcanism at sea, especially the subtleties of how and when hot springs form. Opportunities for observation are few. Expeditions to sites of interest usually last only days and are often cut short by bad weather. Scientists have at times stumbled on volcanic outbursts, but have never witnessed the birth of hot-water vents and their associated colonies.
All that began to change on June 22 when a small laboratory of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Newport, Ore., was electronically linked to a formerly secret Navy network for listening to ocean noises and enemy submarines. Only four days later, the lab recorded a sea-floor eruption along the Juan de Fuca ridge. For two days, moving south to north, swarms of sea quakes shook an area some 25 miles in length, implying that lava was surging out of the earth to form new sea floor.
In response, an ad hoc alliance of universities, Federal agencies and the Canadian Government launched six forays (most rerouted from already planned voyages) to examine the site with undersea sensors, robots and a mini-submarine. The Alvin expedition was financed by the National Science Foundation and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, both of which have formal programs to study undersea ridges and vents.
 
The Expedition
 Probing for Clues In Inky Darkness
 Alvin is a white, 25-foot-long research submersible that can carry three people to a depth of 2.5 miles. Inside the sub is a seven-foot titanium sphere that carries not only the pilot and two observers but all the vessel's electronics and life-support gear. Alvin and its support ship, Atlantis 2, which is 210 feet long, were built more than a quarter century ago but are still on the cutting edge of deep-sea exploration. They are operated by the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution on Cape Cod.
The sub has two mechanical arms, and its exterior racks can hold cameras, sonars, temperature probes, animal traps, water-sample bottles and magnetometers. Its variable buoyancy allows it to carry scientific payloads of vastly different weights. The sub dives only in daylight, when launch and recovery are safest.
The Atlantis 2 left Astoria, Ore., on Oct. 9 with 52 people on board. A day later, it reached the quake zone and lowered a network of electronic buoys to the sea floor. During dives, Alvin would chirp and the distant buoys would beep in response, letting the sub continuously fix its position even in the inky darkness.
Dr. Delaney, the expedition's chief scientist, told his team they had a "historic opportunity" to discover how the vents formed and evolved. The plan was for the submarine to work its way southward during the day, while at night unmanned sensors and cameras were towed on long cables from the ship in wide searches for likely observational targets.
The sky was gray and the sea was relatively calm during Alvin's first dive. One of two scientists who went down was Dr. Marvin D. Lilley of the University of Washington, a chemist. "Save the Tube Worms," read the logo on his T-shirt.
The scientists that day explored part of a 1.5-mile stretch of freshly erupted and still-glassy lava in the northern quake region. One volcanic vent spewed shimmering water whose temperature was measured at 97 degrees, up from the near-freezing 35 degrees in the surrounding waters. But there were no signs of new life or mineral chimneys.
 
Colonies of Bacteria
 After three days, the team moved some 10 miles south to an area known from earlier work to have many particles in the water, mainly matted bacteria. Temperatures were measured at up to 65 degrees. Clumps of waving bacteria would occasionally break loose from the fissures, joining a swirl of biologic snow.
The scientists believed the bacterial storms were related to the recent outburst, though lava there was clearly old. Their thesis was that fresh magma lay just beneath the sea floor, heating the water and creating an ideal environment for bacterial growth.
At night, scientists from the Seattle-based Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration would tow a sensor up and down through the water column as the ship moved forward. Over several nights, they found at the southern end of the quake region a strong signal indicating high heat, chemicals and particulate matter -- signs of a large vent field.
That area was nicknamed the Source site, since it was where the sea quakes had begun as magma deep in the earth surged upward.
But Alvin's initial dives there were disappointing, and the expedition quickly moved back to the bacterial site. On one dive, a time-lapse video camera and a temperature probe, both battery powered, were left near an energetic vent to track its evolution for up to a year.
 
The Source
 A Tangle of Life About a Monolith
 As the second week began, the scientists renewed their search for the Source. But dive after dive found little of interest, and even the unmanned instruments lost evidence of strong activity. The sky turned dark, the seas high. On the night of Oct. 22, just before all operations were shut down by bad weather, a towed sensor suddenly reported a series of exceptionally strong signals, helping pinpoint a likely target.
As Atlantis 2 rode out the rough weather, Alvin could do no work during the last two scheduled dive days. With a discovery so close, Dr. Delaney asked Woods Hole if the expedition could be extended a day, gambling that the weather would break. Woods Hole said yes.
On Oct. 24, scattered clouds were shot with gold from the rising sun as Dr. Delaney and this reporter climbed into Alvin to descend more than a thousand fathoms into the darkness in search of the Source. "May the force be with you," a dive controller aboard the ship said over the hydrophone as we began our descent.
The cramped sphere was surprisingly comfortable, lined with soft cushions, feeling like a college dorm packed with stereos and high-tech gear. Outside my observation port there flashed the lights of an endless procession of gelatinous organisms, some seemingly a foot or two in length. Ripples of light would pass along their bodies as we swept past them.
We reached bottom around 9:30 A.M. and proceeded to fly over endless fields of pillow-shaped lava. After an hour of fruitless searching, we came upon a Reebok shoe that had sunk into the abyss, a jarring discovery given the gravity of our pursuit.
Slowly our tiny sphere grew colder. Water vapor began to condense on exposed metal parts of the titanium hull, forming a glistening sheen. I put on a sweater.
Then, at 11:30 A.M., after what seemed like many hours of viewing interminable mounds of lava, we came upon a giant chimney looming up out of the dark, spewing water that shimmered with motion.
"It's hot," reported our pilot, Robert J. Grieve. "It's got tube worms all over it."
A riot of life flourished on and around the unworldly monolith, which loomed three or four stories high. The tube worms were four or five inches long, their red tips emerging from brown outer cases. The chimney's surface was spread with mats of white bacteria and iridescent, dark red palm worms about an inch long. Smaller still were orange worms covered with tiny bristles. The chimney's surface also crawled with swarms of miniature lobsters known as galatheids.
Remarkably, this tangle of life included at least two types of small corals that were heavy with spines, polyps and tentacles. "We've never seen corals among tube worms before," Dr. Cindy Van Dover, a biologist on the voyage from Woods Hole, said later. "It's going to be neat to figure out how the corals make a living."
 
Warm Bed of Creatures
 Surrounding the tower, often lurking behind rocks, were other creatures. There were large sea anemones topped with explosions of tentacles, orangeish-brown spider crabs the size of dinner plates, and more corals, reaching with tentacles toward the chimney like religious devotees.
That day we had time to examine five large chimneys in all. Some small ones in the area were actively venting but naked of life and quickly crumbled in a cloud of debris when Alvin's mechanical arm tried to grab them. The hottest water we measured coming out of vents that day was 543 degrees. At the base of one chimney we left a battery-powered temperature sensor, to be retrieved next year.
Suddenly, our pilot noticed that the temperature of the submarine's skin was starting to rise. By accident, we had positioned ourselves over a vent, a potentially dangerous thing to do since the sub's plastic windows can melt. We quickly began our ascent, exhausted and happy.
Later, back on the ship, Dr. Delaney said the field appeared to be a pre-existing one that had been reactivated by the June eruption. The chimneys were generally big, he noted. But there were also small, fresh ones easily broken apart, as well as creatures that were unusually small, like the tiny lobsters, which were mostly youngsters.
Dr. Delaney held out the possibility that the field might be new, stressing how little was known about chimney growth rates. Ultimately, the field's age will be determined by future studies of the expedition's data and samples.
Over all, he said, the voyage would aid the worldwide effort to better comprehend deep volcanism.
"Catching an event at the beginning and watching its evolution is an essential part of the understanding process," Dr. Delaney said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sea anemone found near a newly discovered mineral vent a mile and a half below the surface of the Pacific off the Oregon coast. The animal and the vent were discovered by the deep-diving submarine Alvin. (William J. Broad/The New York Times) (pg. 12)
 
 Drawings: "An Alien World" -- Vents on the seafloor can gush super-hot water from which minerals precipitate to form large chimneys covered with odd creatures. The 15-story chimney, above, is on the Juan de Fuca ridge.
 
Diagram: "Expedition to a Fiery Rift" -- Tiny sub probes eruption -- The submersible Alvin recently dived a dozen times to explore the aftermath of a volcanic outburst on the Juan de Fuca ridge, finding fresh lava, storms of bacteria and a field of mineral chimneys crawling with life; View along ridge, looking northeast, shows central volcanic valley where the Alvin dives took place. (Source: Christopher G. Fox, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce)
 
Diagram: "Engine of Creation in the Abyss" -- Volcanic fissures in the ocean floor spew lava, creating new crust and oceans as the continents split apart. Hot springs and mineral chimneys form when seawater sinks, hits magma, then rises to the surface laden with chemicals in super-heated streams. (Source: "Understanding Earth," Press and Siever (W. H. Freeman)) (pg. 1)
 
Map/Chart: "Diary of a Deep Expedition" -- The submarine Alvin, run by the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, recently explored the Juan de Fuca ridge, diving 12 times in all. The voyage generally moved north to south, searching for a better understanding of hot vents and deep volcanism. Briefly, the diary tells what was found or done.
Oct. 11
Fresh lava and 97-degree water.
Oct. 12
New lava and 44-degree water.
Oct. 13
New and old lava.
Oct. 18
New and old lava.
Oct. 14
Bacterial mats and 65-degree water.
Oct. 17
Bacterial mats and 74-degree water.
Oct. 20
Camera deployed for vent monitoring.
Oct. 15
Dive cut short by equipment failure.
Oct. 16
Old lava found and sampled.
Oct. 19
Old lava found and sampled.
Oct. 21
Old lava and 43-degree water.
Oct. 24
Chimney field and 543-degree water. (Map source: Christopher G. Fox, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce) (pg. C12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (73%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION; NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION OREGON COAST FOODS (57%); NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (91%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION; NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (91%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;OREGON UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (73%); OREGON, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OCEANS; VOLCANOES; SUBMARINES; RESEARCH; ATLANTIS 2 (SHIP) SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); OCEANS (90%); OCEANOGRAPHY (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (77%); BASEBALL (74%); BACTERIA (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



37 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: France Hasn't Slipped Off Charts

 BODY:

To the Editor:
As a student of international relations, I have spent considerable time studying France and the European Community. I am greatly impressed by "Has France Gone Bonkers?" (Op-Ed, Oct. 18) by Flora Lewis. I take issue, however, with how she points to the supposed end of France as a "great power" by making vague reference to the strength of a reunified Germany. 
 I fail to understand the habit of many United States journalists of judging the "great power" status of France and of other European countries by making selective comparisons to Germany.
It is true that with German reunification, France's relative population, size and industrial infrastructure are smaller. However, this says less about a decline in France's power than about a rise in Germany's.
How, then, do we measure "power status"? I do not maintain that comparison is an inappropriate tool, but it must be used more broadly. Judging France's power by holding it up to any one other country, even to its largest trading partner, is imprecise.
In measuring the power of a country, it is more accurate to compare the country with a wide array of others if not with the entire world. By these criteria, "great powers" are the few countries that lead the world in a variety of economic, political and military areas.
In any statistical appraisal of relative national power, France is almost always among the top four or five countries in the world. France is the world's second largest exporter of services and of agriculture. It is the fourth industrial exporter and has, depending on how you count, the third or fourth largest nuclear arsenal in the world.
France also remains a leader in many other "great power" pursuits like arms production, telecommunications, aerospace, finance and overseas military intervention. While France may never rival the "superpowers" of the cold war era in terms of its influence and power, it certainly is a "great power" by any objective, global measure.
To say that Germany has become stronger, then, does not imply France is weaker. If anything, France benefits when its largest trading partner and ally experiences growth in economic and political potential.
This makes France's foot-dragging over the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade all the more regrettable. If France were a marginal country with declining power, nobody would be worried about its efforts to scuttle the Uruguay Round.
On the other hand, if the French perceived their own position more accurately, maybe they would not be trying so hard.
 
MARK LIBBY
Somerville, Mass., Oct. 25, 1993

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: FRANCE (98%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; FRANCE FRANCE (98%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); COLD WAR (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); POPULATION SIZE (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, FLORA; LIBBY, MARK

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1993



38 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
New home sales rose in September at the fastest pace since 1986. The 20.8 percent increase, inspired by mortgage rates under 7 percent, far surpassed expectations. And the index of leading indicators climbed five-tenths of 1 percent in September, the first sizable back-to-back gain this year. [Page D1.] 
 Bankers are being pushed by competitive pressures to reduce interest rates on business loans and abandon stringent requirements imposed on borrowers a few years ago. [D1.]
 
Companies
Warner Brothers joined the race to establish a fifth broadcast television network, creating WB with six independent stations owned by the Tribune Company. [D1.]
Retailers led by Sears are looking more at logistics, the science of moving goods from a manufacturer into a customer's hands in the most timely, efficient and cost-effective way. [D1.]
Kmart will abandon the warehouse club business, selling 91 of its Pace Membership Warehouses to Wal-Mart. [D5.]
Deloitte & Touche was found negligent in a tax case involving a limited partnership, which could cost the firm $100 million. [D5.]
United Airlines is at an impasse in talks to sell a majority stake to its pilots' and machinists' unions. [D5.]
Drug price increases by Du Pont Merck Pharmaceutical drew fire from members of Congress and Congressional aides. [D6.]
Bell South and Southwestern Bell challenged A.T.& T.'s plan to buy McCaw Cellular Communications. [D6.]
Pacific Telesis will be allowed to spin off its wireless communications operations in a public offering. [D9.]
A local phone company, MFS Communications, charges that Bell Atlantic is the most anti-competitive Baby Bell. [D15.]
Domino's Pizza must ease its no-beards rule to accommodate black delivery drivers with a skin disease. [A20.]
 
Business Technology
The nation's data highway is groaning under rush-hour traffic. Internet, once a cozy computer network for scientists, is being choked by millions of newcomers who need only a personal computer, a modem and a few dollars a month to gain access. [D1.]
 
International
The proposed marriage of Renault and Volvo to create the world's sixth-largest auto group is showing strains. A Volvo shareholders meeting to approve the merger was postponed. [D8.]
The Japanese employ a higher percentage of low-skilled workers than do other foreigners operating in the U.S. [D14.]
Rejection of Nafta would be a "profound setback" to U.S. foreign policy, President Clinton argued. [A8.]
Olivetti's head, Carlo De Benedetti, gave himself up and was taken to jail for questioning in Italy's huge bribery scandal. [A16.]
South Africa's wine industry could see an end to subsidies and risks new taxes when the Government changes. [C12.]
 
Markets
The Dow Jones industrials touched a record high, up 5.03 points to 3697.64. The index was pushed higher mostly by I.B.M. [D10.]
The Treasury bond yield jumped on selling in response to news that the economy is stronger than in the first half. [D20.]
The dollar hit an 11-week high against the mark. Gold rose in the U.S. after falling overseas. [D19.] Lumber jumped. [D19.]
 
Today's Columns
Analysts have revised their outlooks for utility stocks in light of riskier times ahead for the industry. Market Place. [D10.]
Hardee's choice of Deutsch/Dworin as its national agency seems a disparate coupling. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D22.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (82%); MRK (NYSE) (82%); DPZ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (82%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (69%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (69%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (54%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (53%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (75%); 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (82%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (69%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); MFS COMMUNICATIONS CO INC (54%); DOMINO'S PIZZA INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); INTEREST RATES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (75%); MERGERS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (75%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (70%); MODEMS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); STOCK OFFERINGS (69%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (67%); AIRLINES (66%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); DRUG PRICES (65%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (62%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (55%); NEGLIGENCE (52%); SKIN DISORDERS (50%); SCANDALS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



39 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1546 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY;
Jams Already on Data Highway

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 2

 BODY:
Call it a cautionary tale for the information age: The nation's increasingly popular data highway is beginning to groan under the load of rush-hour traffic.
The problem, computer and telecommunications experts say, is that the computer network called the Internet, once a cozy community of a few thousand computer scientists, engineers and programmers who quietly and freely shared their on-line data, has suddenly been besieged by millions of newcomers. Anyone with a personal computer and a modem can easily and cheaply gain access to the Internet, a global web of thousands of computer networks. 
 The Internet has been widely hailed as a here-and-now precursor to the interactive 500-channel cable television systems of the future. But the information highway metaphor is proving all too literal, as traffic jams become increasingly common.
 Although service providers charge usage fees for the telephone lines that connect individuals to the Internet, most of the on-line information is free for the taking. As a result, highly prized digital information that has been freely available to any and all -- like free software, National Weather Service satellite photos and on-line searches of the Library of Congress catalogue -- is now sometimes inaccessible to almost everyone as a clamoring horde overwhelms the computer data bases.
 
 
A Waiting Game
 "It's just like when everybody flocks to a beach on a Sunday," said David Farber, a University of Pennsylvania computer scientist who is one of the nation's computer network pioneers. "Guess what happens. You sit in the car and wait and wait and wait."
Everywhere on the global Internet, which is now roamed by an estimated 15 million computer users, the growth rates are staggering.
At the National Center for Supercomputer Applications in Champaign, Ill., a new service that answers requests to an electronic library called the World Wide Web, has seen the number of daily queries explode from almost 100,000 requests in June to almost 400,000 in October. Officials at the center say the only solution may be to take a $15 million supercomputer away from its normal scientific number-crunching duties and employ it full time as an electronic librarian.
This year, information retrieved using a popular searching program called Gopher increased more than 400 percent, to almost 200 billion bytes a month -- about seven million newspaper pages.
In Ann Arbor, Mich., where an on-line provider, MSEN Inc., has made a career-counseling data base available free through the Internet, usage shot up from 1,000 queries a day when the doors opened in June to 12,000 a day on Monday of this week. Until MSEN is able to afford a bigger computer, it will have to turn away any additional queries each day.
And consider the plight of the operators of the Panix Public Access Network, a small outfit based in New York that for more than four years has quietly provided its 1,500 customers with a convenient electronic on-ramp to the data highway. Late last month, after word leaked out that the company's computers had been broken into by a computer intruder intent on stealing passwords, thousands of curiosity seekers decided to take a look at the Panix network -- the digital equivalent of driving by the scene of the accident.
They were able to do so by each remotely activating a tiny program on the Panix system that in computer parlance is called a finger demon. Such programs are a convenient way of determining everyone who is currently connected to a computer on a network, and modern systems can comfortably run hundreds of these programs at once.
But not thousands. So when thousands of passers-by decided to gawk simultaneously, Panix suddenly came grinding to a halt.
"It was a traffic jam caused by rubberneckers on the nation's data highway," said Marc Rotenberg, an executive at the Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility, a public interest group based in Washington.
With the number of Internet users doubling each year, these kinds of glitches seem bound to continue, many experts say, unless technical and economic changes are made in what has until now been a disorganized and largely voluntary system.
 
Electronic Word of Mouth
 "Free services like those on the Internet can't continue indefinitely," said Alexis Rosen, the president and founder of the Panix service. Because informal news about events on the network flows so quickly through electronic word of mouth, what Mr. Rosen called "flash crowds" are beginning to appear with increasing frequency to instantly clog computer systems.
Recently, for example, a Panix subscriber, Adam Curry, who is a host on the MTV music-video network, began posting an electronic gossip sheet on Panix with spicy tidbits on Madonna's private life. Available free over the Internet, Mr. Curry's gossip sheet soon drew a crowd that began to jam the Panix system, threatening to slow service for other users. The company told Mr. Curry that he had to change the way he distributed his gossip sheet.
So Mr. Curry has set up his own host computer with his own Internet address: called mtv.com. There, his computer correspondents can call up his Cyber Sleaze Report and other documents. He plans to finance his electronic gossip mill through $10 contributions.
"If there is a lesson to be learned it is that you must create technical fixes for these problems because you can't create social fixes," Mr. Rosen said.
An obvious solution to Internet gridlock might seem to be simply adding "bandwidth" -- the digital equivalent of adding more data lanes to the information highway. That, in fact, is the master plan being pursued through the multibillion-dollar installations of fiber-optic cable by the nation's cable television and phone companies. But for their 500-channel networks of the future, the cable and phone companies are still trying to fathom what types of vast computer data bases will be necessary for serving tens of thousands of simultaneous requests for information.
 
Waiting in Line
 For current Internet service providers, higher-capacity data networks would only further overwhelm the abilities of many of the data base computers on the network.
"After you get off the ramp from the data highway you have to wait in line at the gas station," said Allan Weis, the president of Advanced Networks and Services Inc., a joint venture of the International Business Machines Corporation and the MCI Communications Corporation. Advanced Networks and Services maintains one of the Internet's high-speed "backbone" networks on behalf of the National Science Foundation.
Mr. Weis has found that the traffic jams are not limited to the small data bases on desktop work stations that are springing up all over the Internet. Hooking up his company's high- speed network to high-volume information providers has forced them to increase the capacity of their systems as well, he said.
"We have 25 information providers on the networks, and more and more of them are experiencing scaling problems," Mr. Weis said, referring to the scramble to increase data-base access. "They have to take information and deal with it more quickly."
The problem of data congestion is not a new one to the Internet, which came close to collapse in 1987 before its underlying technology was substantially upgraded.
Economists who have studied the Internet say that one potential way to ease the approaching gridlock will be to charge for services, thereby generating the capital to meet the required performance upgrades.
"There are people who say, 'This is terrible; it would crowd out deserving users,' " said Hal Varian, an economist at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. "But the costs will be very low because the technology is so efficient."
 
Rethinking Free Information
 Barry Shein of Brookline, Mass., is a battle-scarred Internet veteran who is rethinking the idea of free information. Mr. Shein is president of the World, a commercial service that provides Internet access to almost 6,000 users for a small monthly fee.
Last November, on Election Day, the World teamed up with a local newspaper to offer updates every half-hour on the Presidential and local elections. The small company was not prepared for the deluge -- tens of thousands of electronic queries from Internet users in more than 40 countries. The average system load, normally between six and eight at any one time, jumped as high as 300. Only by quickly rewriting parts of his computer's software was Mr. Shein able to patch together a system that could temporarily handle the load without crashing.
A Silicon Valley entrepreneur who sees vast market opportunities in the Internet is Steve Kirsch, an engineer in San Jose, Calif. His new company, Infoseek, plans to begin offering a commercial version of the information retrieval systems that are now free in the Internet early next year.
Acting as a clearinghouse for newspapers and other electronic publishers, Infoseek would bill customers based on their use of the network. Mr. Kirsch believes that his pay-as-you-go services will be immune from any gridlock
"The more customers we have using information," he said, "the more money we have to spend to handle the load."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the international network operations center of Advanced Network and Serviced Inc. in Ann Arbor, Mich., system administrators try to avert traffic jams on the global Internet web of computer networks. (Peter Yates for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Heavy Traffic on the Data Highway" shows number of "host" computers acting as on-ramps to the Internet, and the number of packets of data transmitted each month on the National Science Foundation's backbone network for the Internet. (Sources: SRI International; Merit Network Inc.) (pg. D9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNET NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (55%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNET NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (55%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); MODEMS (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); LIBRARIES (71%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



40 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 ELECTIONS: Long Island;
Gulotta Slips Past Opponent To Remain Nassau Chief

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MINEOLA, L.I., Wednesday, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Thomas S. Gulotta, the incumbent Nassau County Executive who ran on a platform calling for change, squeaked by his Democratic challenger, Benjamin L. Zwirn, Tuesday night in a contest that was widely seen as a referendum on decades of Republican rule.
With about half the vote counted, Mr. Gulotta had 51.9 percent of the vote to 48.1 percent for Mr. Zwirn, the Supervisor of North Hempstead. 
 Mr. Gulotta declared victory about 12:30 A.M., saying, "This was the sweetest victory of all."
"We had to run this year not only against a Democratic candidate," he said. "We had to run against an anti-incumbent sentiment."
"But worst of all," he added, "we had to run against a newspaper," referring to Newsday and its heavy coverage of the race that Mr. Gulotta charged was biased against him.
This victory proves, he continued, that "the Republican Party in this county is alive and well."
 
Talk of Impounding Machines
 Mr. Zwirn refused to concede and talked about impounding the voting machines. "Our numbers show us ahead," he added.
Mr. Gulotta's narrow victory was seen by some as an affirmation of the loyalty that Mr. Gulotta has cultivated among voters over his 18-year political career. And it showed that the county's vaunted Republican organization, despite recent setbacks, could still command thousands of votes, even in the face of a charismatic opponent with a powerful message.
In other races on Long Island, the incumbent Republican District Attorneys, James M. Catterson Jr. of Suffolk and Denis E. Dillon of Nassau, handily defeated their Democratic opponents, respectively Patrick Kevin Brosnahan and Timothy Calonita. With more than half the vote counted, at about 11:15 P.M., Mr. Catterson declared victory with 56 percent of the vote to Mr. Brosnahan's 40 percent. At about the same time, Mr. Dillon had amassed about 60 percent with a little more than one-third of the vote counted.
 
Incumbent Supervisors Win
 In Nassau County there were decisive victories for all the incumbent members of the Board of Supervisors: Lewis J. Yevoli of Oyster Bay, a Democrat; Bruce Nyman of Long Beach, a Democrat, and Gregory P. Peterson and Richard V. Guardino, both Republicans of Hempstead.
And as expected, Frederick E. Parola Jr., the Republican candidate for Comptroller, decisively defeated his Democratic opponent, Edward J. Shapiro, with about 58 percent with more than half of the vote counted.
In the race for Suffolk County Legislature, with about 75 percent of the vote counted at about midnight, it appeared that the balance of power remained unchanged. Democrats held onto their seven seats, and the Republican-Conservative caucus had 11 members on the 18-seat Legislature.
But it was the Nassau County executive race that had drawn most of the attention on Long Island in recent months, and Mr. Gulotta's victory proved that despite a recession that ravaged the county's finances, he and the Republicans had not lost their iron grip on the county government.
 
A Test of Party Strength
 The election was seen as test of the Nassau Republican Party, an organization often considered to be the most powerful political machine in the country. For decades this party, which has served as the base for Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato and other national Republican figures, has dominated the politics of this suburban county of about 1.3 million.
But in recent years, the party has lost several important local elections and had close calls in others. And with Nassau now having some of the highest taxes in the nation and the county government borrowing millions of dollars just to balance its budget, many political analysts believed that the race for county executive, Nassau's top political position, would be close.
Officials in both parties agreed that this race was the toughest that Mr. Gulotta had faced in his 18-year political career.
Many Democrats attributed the loss largely to the large war chest Mr. Gulotta had amassed, and they cited the closeness as proof of voters' disapproval of the Republican incumbent. The race was the most expensive County Executive race in Nassau history, with Mr. Gulotta spending more than $2 million to roughly $700,000 for Mr. Zwirn.
 
A Sign of Confidence
 But Republicans claimed the win as a sign of confidence in their candidate. They said that voters had a special place in their hearts for the Gulotta name, a familiarity that Mr. Gulotta had developed over the years by diligently attending thousands of ceremonial events from bar mitzvahs to senior lunches to Kiwanis meetings, and by seeing that government provided basic services to his constituents.
Mr. Gulotta's popularity was also aided by his family's fame in Nassau: his father was a prominent Nassau politician, a District Attorney and then a Supreme Court Judge, and many older voters still feel a special loyalty to him.
As a result, Mr. Gulotta has long been one of the party's most prolific vote-getters. And today's election was his 10th straight victory.
But this year Mr. Gulotta was facing an opponent, Mr. Zwirn, who had made a name for himself by becoming the first Democrat elected Supervisor of North Hempstead in 73 years. Mr. Zwirn had a record of being able to draw the support of Republicans because of his fiscal conservatism. In an appeal to Republicans and independents, Mr. Zwirn ran an anti-incumbency campaign that promised to cut government spending, reduce taxes and end Republican patronage.
 
A Promise of Reform
 As a response, in a shift from his past campaigns, Mr. Gulotta ran on the promise that he would reform the old order and the contention that he was the most experienced candidate to change Nassau. His campaign also emphasized that he was a man that voters knew and could trust. And while he rarely detailed his achievements in office or his plans for the future, his campaign portrayed him as a steady hand, who had made tough decisions in tough economic times and had brought the county through the recession.
In the most expensive political advertising campaign in county history, Mr. Gulotta portrayed himself as an agent of change and coined the slogan: "Tom Gulotta, For a New Nassau." The ads featured a number of proposed changes in county government (which Mr. Zwirn also supported).
And Mr. Gulotta's campaign also broadcast a series of commercials that redefined Mr. Zwirn, casting him as a "Liberal, Through and Through." They also raised other criticisms, such as Mr. Zwirn's failure to vote for six years, that were intended to raise doubts about his character.
"Gulotta had to do something to dissuade voters that he was not the old-style machine Republican," said Stanley B. Klein, a political science professor at the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University. "They defined a different Gulotta, who was young, who was aggressive, who was the man for change, who they never mentioned had come up through the ranks of the Republican Party, and at the same time they were drilling in publicity that the Democrats were tax and spend people and that Ben Zwirn was a liberal tax-and-spend Democrat."
"They described Zwirn to the voter, and that's who the voter saw," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thomas S. Gulotta, top (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times), the Nassau County Executive, after he cast his vote yesterday in Merrick, L.I. His Democratic challenger, Benjamin L. Zwirn, arrived to vote at a firehouse in Port Washington. (Michael Shavel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NASSAU COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); REFERENDUMS (77%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN; GULOTTA, THOMAS S (COUNTY EXEC); ZWIRN, BENJAMIN L (SUPERVISOR); CATTERSON, JAMES M (DIST ATTY); DILLON, DENIS E (DIST ATTY); BROSNAHAN, PATRICK KEVIN JR; CALONITA, TIMOTHY; PAROLA, FREDERICK E JR; SHAPIRO, EDWARD J

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



41 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Sales Jump By 20.8%

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
Inspired by mortgage rates under 7 percent, buyers snapped up new homes in September at the fastest pace since 1986, a performance that far surpassed expectations, Government figures showed today. All regions boomed except the Northeast, where sales eased slightly.
In a separate report, the Commerce Department index designed to forecast the economy climbed five-tenths of 1 percent for September, the first time this year there have been sizable back-to-back gains. 
 Today's figures added to the mounting evidence of economic acceleration and once again prompted a selloff in the credit markets, driving interest rates higher on fears of revived inflation. [Page D20.] The Dow Jones industrial average finished the day up 5.03 points at a new record. [Page D10.]
 
 
'Very Impressive'
 Sales of new single-family homes jumped 20.8 percent for the month, the biggest gain since September 1986, the Commerce Department and the Department of Housing and Urban Development jointly reported. The annual sales pace, 762,000 adjusted for recurrent seasonal swings, was the fastest since December 1986.
"The home sales number looked very impressive," said Robert H. Chandross, the chief economist at the Republic National Bank of New York, noting that the sale of a new homes generates business activity far beyond the purchase of such big-ticket items of appliances and carpets. But he and others cautioned that home sales swing widely from month to month and that statistical adjustments sometimes distort instead of correct.
Actual sales in September -- without annualization or seasonal adjustment -- were 58,000, up only modestly from August's 57,000 and down modestly from June, today's report showed.
 
 
Low Mortgage Rates
 Still, analysts said it was pretty clear that home buyers, many of whom had deferred purchases, decided in September to seize the lowest mortgage rates since the late 1960's. They also noted that prices of new homes moved higher for the second consecutive month, reflecting less discounting by builders and perhaps spending on extra amenities.
Yet the September sales leap was so big that officials at the National Association of Home Builders and the Mortgage Bankers Association said home sales would probably decline in October.
"I don't think it's sustainable," said Warren Lasko, executive vice president of the mortgage group, suggesting that sales this month could run at a pace of 650,000 or so. He said applications for mortgages, refinancings excluded, were "essentially flat" from the last week of July to the third week of October.
The South accounted for nearly half of all sales of new homes in September, today's report showed, soaring 27.9 percent to a pace of 367,000. Sales in the Midwest jumped 24.3 percent, to 138,000, while those in the West advanced 15.3 percent, to 204,000.
The decline in the Northeast was 7.1 percent, as sales slipped to an annual rate of 52,000, from 56,000. "The economy in the Northeast is still limping along," Mr. Lasko said, with sales running 42 percent lower for the month than in September 1992.
At the September sales pace, the nation's inventory of 288,000 unsold new homes would last 4.9 months, the lowest supply since April.
The median sales price for a new home in September was $129,000, up from $127,400 in August, the report also showed. The mean price climbed $400, to $149,600.
The five-tenths of 1 percent advance in the Government index designed to predict economic turns provided little surprise since most of its components have been published previously.
 
 
Consecutive Gains
 Yet analysts were generally pleased that the index had posted two consecutive gains averaging seven-tenths of 1 percent, following a sawtooth pattern of ups and downs during the first half of the year. Revisions announced today lowered the gain in August by one-tenth of a point, for an increase of nine-tenths of 1 percent, and erased the minimal gain that had prevailed for July.
Six of the 11 index components contributed to the September rise, the biggest being an increase in the money supply. The others were higher totals for new factory orders for consumer goods and materials, building permits, stock prices, consumer expectations and backlogs of orders for manufactured durable goods.
Holding the index down were companies getting faster deliveries from vendors, lower contracts and orders for plant and equipment, higher first-time claims for unemployment benefits and lower prices for materials particularly sensitive to the business cycle.
The 11th component, the length of the average workweek, was unchanged.
Two companion indexes, those made up of coincident and lagging indicators, each rose two-tenths of 1 percent in September, the report also showed.
In New York, the Center for International Business Cycle Research at Columbia University reported that its leading index of activity in the service sector eased to 191.9 in September from 193.0 in August. Despite the decline, the center said the index remained in an upward trend and that it expected service-sector growth to persist into 1994.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Leading Indicators: Component Analysis" shows components of the index of leading economic indicators and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from August to September. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) (pg. D2)
 
Graphs: "Leading Indicators" shows index of 11 indicators designed to "lead" economic activity from April '92-Sept. '93. (Source: Commerce Department); "New-Home Sales" shows number of new private homes sold during month from April '92-Sept. '93. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (68%); HSB (PAR) (68%); HBC (NYSE) (68%); 0005 (HKSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (77%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (68%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (68%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); MIDWEST USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY REAL ESTATE (92%); NEW HOME SALES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); HOME PRICES (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); CITIES (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



42 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 ELECTIONS: Woman in the News;
An Outsider Wins Office: Christine Todd Whitman

BYLINE: By KIMBERLY J. McLARIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PLAINSBORO, N.J., Wednesday, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Today Christine Todd Whitman both fulfilled the political promise she showed three years ago and realized the obligation of public service that was virtually her familial inheritance.
In becoming the first woman to be elected governor of New Jersey, Mrs. Whitman traveled from little-known but well-connected outsider to the candidate who upset a surprisingly resilient Jim Florio. 
 In accepting victory early this morning, Mrs. Whitman mounted the stage at her election headquarters here and gave two thumbs up and a radiant, relieved grin.
"We did it," she told a roaring crowd of supporters.
Mrs. Whitman, 47, is a member of one of the state's wealthiest and most politically involved families. Her father, the late Webster B. Todd, was a major figure in the state and national Republican parties and a building contractor whose projects included Rockefeller Center and Radio City Music Hall. Her mother, the late Eleanor Schley Todd, was a Republican national committeewoman.
Mrs. Whitman rose to political viability in 1990 by nearly upsetting United States Senator Bill Bradley. Although she had held only one other elected office in her life, that of Somerset County Freeholder, Mrs. Whitman easily won the Republican nomination for that race, because better-known politicians thought it foolhardy to challenge Mr. Bradley, who seemed unbeatable.
Mrs. Whitman focused her campaign on Mr. Bradley's refusal to comment on the $2.8 billion tax increase pushed through the state Legislature by his fellow Democrat, Mr. Florio, and came within two percentage points of beating the incumbent.
Lifted by the near-win, Mrs. Whitman began her unofficial campaign for governor almost immediately and never really stopped. She formed the Committee for an Affordable New Jersey, a political action committee, and raised money for Republican candidates. She wrote a newspaper column, became host of a radio talk show and crisscrossed the state, locking up endorsements from county leaders before her opponents got on the road. By the time the 1993 Republican primary arrived, Mrs. Whitman was the acknowledged favorite.
 
Embarrassing Blunders
 But it was a rocky primary for the front-runner.
First both she and her main opponent, former state Attorney General Cary Edwards, admitted they had hired illegal aliens and failed to pay taxes on the workers' salaries. Then a third candidate, James L. Wallwork, joined the fray.
Mrs. Whitman committed embarrassing blunders such as failing to vote in her local school board election (the election ended in a tie and the school budget was defeated). She handed her opponents ammunition in their battle to portray her as inexperienced and out of touch because of her great wealth, saying, for example, while talking about the property tax rebate program, that "as funny as it seems, $500 is a lot" of money to some people.
Still, Mrs. Whitman emerged from the primary successful, if slightly bruised. She warned her supporters that campaigning against Mr. Florio would not be easy, even if he was one of the most unpopular governors in New Jersey history.
 
Forced on the Defense
 "He's a very good campaigner and people who think a race against him will be easy are wrong," she said in 1991. "You can't just depend on negatives to win an election."
But Mrs. Whitman did not immediately move to capitalize on momentum from her victory in the primary. During the summer, while Mr. Florio drew on the perks of incumbency to maintain visibility, moving about the state signing bills and releasing reports, Mrs. Whitman kept a low profile. She attended mostly small partisan events and civic functions, largely away from the eye of the press. In the middle of the summer she left for a vacation with her family in Idaho.
As the campaign progressed, Mr. Florio attacked first and often. He released a string of television commercials and a flurry of news releases that depicted Mrs. Whitman as a gun-loving, tax-evading, out-of-touch heiress who wanted to put drunken drivers back on the street and opposed putting carjackers in jail.
 
A Change in Command
 Mrs. Whitman found herself trying to explain her positions on issues that Mr. Florio had already defined for her. For example, Mrs. Whitman questioned the effectiveness of mandatory sentences, saying they may lead to prison overcrowding and the premature release of dangerous criminals, a view also held by United States Attorney General Janet Reno. But Mr. Florio suggested to voters that Mrs. Whitman opposed the state's mandatory sentencing law for carjackers because she wanted them back on the street.
Mrs. Whitman sought to run her campaign as a referendum on Mr. Florio and the tax increase he pushed through the Legislature. Seeking to rekindle voter anger over the tax increases, she pounded Mr. Florio on the state's economic situation and told voters he was responsible for high unemployment and for businesses leaving the state.
But she took a pounding herself after putting out an economic plan including a proposal to cut incomes taxes by 30 percent over three years.
After early polls showed her trailing the Governor badly, Republican leaders urged Mrs. Whitman to take steps to steady her campaign.
Ed Rollins, the Republican consultant, took charge of daily operations from Mrs. Whitman's brother, Webster B. Todd Jr., and made it clear that he was willing to engage in negative campaigning despite Mrs. Whitman's insistence that it was against her nature. She released her 1990 tax returns returns after months of stalling that allowed Mr. Florio to suggest she was hiding something, then left the Florio campaign scrambling to justify its innuendo.
She turned in a solid performance debating the Governor, appearing confident, relaxed, and, at times, aggressive.
Then Mrs. Whitman went on the road, stumping for votes one on one, shaking hands and taking the time to answer questions, even when they had little to do with state business. She released a series of commercials around the theme "A Change for the Better" and called on her friend, former Gov. Thomas H. Kean to lend his popularity to her campaign. She appeared on everything from CNN to the Howard Stern radio show, trying to talk directly to voters.
At a shopping center in Menlo Park on Sunday, she summed up what a vote for her would mean.
"If New Jersey elects me, the message is going to be that taxpayers have had enough," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christine Todd Whitman negotiating a corner as she bicycled back to her farm yesterday in Tewksbury, N.J., after casting one of the many ballots that elected her the first woman to be Governor of New Jersey. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: RADIO CITY ENTERTAINMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; WOMEN ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WOMEN (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); COUNTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (73%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (72%); BUDGETS (70%); TAX LAW (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); TAX RELIEF (64%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (99%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



43 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: O'Rourke Squeezes Ahead of Brodsky for County Executive Spot

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, Wednesday, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Leading a Republican sweep of Westchester County's top elected offices, Andrew P. O'Rourke staved off a fierce challenge by a six-term Assemblyman, Richard L. Brodsky, and declared victory Tuesday night in his bid to gain four more years as County Executive.
The 60-year-old Mr. O'Rourke, a silver-haired pragmatist who projects an unshakable affability, narrowly proved that voters have grown comfortable with his leadership after 11 years and are wary of any change in what they regard as a congenial county. Although Mr. Brodsky repeatedly questioned Mr. O'Rourke's ethical judgment, many voters seemed to be more anxious about the possibility that Mr. Brodsky might initiate expensive programs and raise taxes. With 96.5 percent of the votes counted, these were the results:
O'Rourke 104,970 49.3%
Brodsky 101,608 47.7% 
 At the same time, Jeanine Pirro, a former judge, decisively defeated a prosecutorial star from Manhattan, Michael G. Cherkasky, for district attorney, a job held for the last 25 years by Carl A. Vergari, who is retiring. [Page B9.]
Had the 47-year-old Mr. Brodsky won, he would have been only the second Democrat in this century elected to either of the top two county positions. Still, Mr. Brodsky came far closer to victory this time than he did in his challenge of Mr. O'Rourke four years ago.
 
Call for Recount
 Shortly after 11 P.M. Tuesday, Mr. O'Rourke appeared before animated supporters at the White Plains Hotel and declared victory.
"We won because this has been the greatest county government in America and because people didn't believe the lies and distortions," he told them. "The people knew about us," he added. "They knew we kept the taxes down, and they didn't believe that other stuff."
Mr. Brodsky, however, refused to concede and instead called for a recount, signing papers that would impound voting machines.
"Don't bet the ranch on either candidate tonight," he said.
Despite their showing, the Democrats proved that changing demographics and the faltering economy of a county that was once a magnet for Fortune 500 companies have given them the power to give the Republicans a scare.
Interviews with voters entering polling places suggested that while some thought Mr. O'Rourke was getting stale, many others believed Mr. Brodsky, as a Democrat, posed more of a threat to raise taxes. That confessed anxiety suggested that Mr. O'Rourke's flood of television advertisements over the weekend were effective in painting Mr. Brodsky as a tax-and-spend liberal.
"O'Rourke has been doing a good job," said Martin Kennedy, a real-estate developer, as he voted in Rye. "He'll keep taxes low, which will give companies incentives to open headquarters in Westchester."
In the county clerk's race, Leonard N. Spano, a Republican County Legislator, handily defeated James P. Doody, the Democratic Supervisor of the Town of Eastchester. The job had been held by Andrew J. Spano, no relation to Leonard Spano, who lost a bid for the Democratic nomination for county executive.
In the county's most closely watched mayoral contest, Sy J. Schulman, a Democrat, captured the White Plains mayoralty by taking advantage of a split among two Republicans, Michael A. Coffey, and Alfred Del Vecchio, who ran as a Conservative.
The Westchester county executive contest was a rematch of the 1989 race, which Mr. O'Rourke won, 125,825 votes to 109,421 for Mr. Brodsky, or 52 to 45 percent. This time, however, the issues over which they fought were strikingly different.
Mr. Brodsky was able to capitalize on a flagging economy and fault Mr. O'Rourke for letting 40,000 jobs slip away. He portrayed Mr. O'Rourke as a burned-out politician whose yearned-for appointment to the Federal bench evaporated with the election of President Clinton. He also exploited disclosures that Mr. O'Rourke recommended his live-in companion for a job with the county medical insurer and sought other county-influenced jobs for family members.
Mr. O'Rourke's strongest assets were a general feeling of well-being among county residents, a AAA rating for county bonds, a 5.7 percent unemployment rate and Mr. Brodsky's reputation for abrasiveness. He also enjoyed the powerful advantage of incumbency in a place where television's preoccupation with New York City politics makes it difficult for challengers to gain attention.
Both campaigns spent far more money this time than last, with Mr. O'Rourke approaching $1 million and Mr. Brodsky nearing $700,000. In the last few days, much of that was spent on telephone drives to urge their historic constituencies to vote in an off-year election, which lacks Presidential or senatorial candidates and issues of global stature.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; COUNTY EXECUTIVES; ELECTION RESULTS ; DISTRICT ATTORNEYS; COUNTY CLERKS COUNTIES (92%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); REAL ESTATE (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH; O'ROURKE, ANDREW P (COUNTY EXEC); BRODSKY, RICHARD L (ASSEMBLYMAN); PIRRO, JEANINE; CHERKASKY, MICHAEL G; DOODY, JAMES P (TOWN SUPERVISOR); SPANO, LEONARD N MICHAEL G CHERKASKY (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



44 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Sluggish Despite Economic Reports

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
Investors yanked stocks through a bumpy session yesterday that illustrated how, these days, good economic news is not always good for the market.
The Dow Jones industrial average edged up 5.03 points, to 3,697.64, the fourth record in a little more than a week. The Dow briefly crossed the psychological barrier of 3,700 shortly before the close of trading before falling back. 
 But the gain was tied entirely to a sharp jump in I.B.M., which rose 3 1/8, to 50 7/8, on heavy volume after a formerly critical analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette raised his assessment to "very attractive," from "neutral."
Declining stocks outnumbered advancers, 11 to 9, and the secondary markets rose only slightly.
The tepid performance came despite the Government's announcement that home sales had shot up to their highest levels in nearly seven years and the Commerce Department's forecasting index had climbed five-tenths of 1 percent for September. So, why did so many stocks sag?
 
Investor Nervousness
 Analysts said investors had become increasingly nervous that economic growth would push up interest rates, prompting investors to switch from equities to fixed-rate securities like bonds. The stock market has thrived in the last year on an influx of money from people fleeing low interest rates.
Yesterday's news touched off a drop in bond prices -- and a resulting rise in yields -- because the bond market tends to dislike economic growth, fearing a rise in inflation. That drop in turn dragged down the Dow more than 20 points by late morning.
The rise in interest rates is "really ominous for the stock market," said Michael Metz, the chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Company. "You are going to have a stock market that suffers from malnutrition. The question in a nutshell is this: Will earnings accelerate fast enough to overcome the negative impact from higher interest rates?"
Volume on the Big Board was heavy at 304.8 million shares. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks declined 0.66 point, to 468.44. The American Stock Exchange composite index rose 1.71 points, to 484.28. And the Nasdaq composite index inched up 1.89 points, to 785.66.
 
Transportation Index Drops
 The Dow Jones transportation index, which has set several records in recent weeks, dropped 3.84 points, to 1,738.40, pulled down by UAL, which fell 3 1/4, to 150 3/4.
The anxiety over interest rates carved into bank, brokerage and utility stocks, while the news of economic growth helped the cyclicals -- companies with earnings that are sensitive to the pace of the recovery.
Chemical Bank declined 3/4, to 40 5/8; First Chicago was off 7/8, to 44 1/4, and J. P. Morgan dropped 3/4, to 70 3/4. Merrill Lynch fell 2 3/4, to 93 1/4; Primerica was off 1 1/8, to 42 3/8, and American General dropped 7/8, to 28 1/8.
Among the cyclicals that rose were Eaton, up 1 3/4, to 54 3/4; Georgia Pacific, up 1 3/8, to 68; Parker-Hannifin, up 1 3/4, to 36; Tenneco, up 1 3/8, to 51 3/4, and United Technologies, up 1 3/8, to 63 1/8.
Other issues showing big gains were Masco, which jumped 1 1/8, to 33 1/4, after reporting higher earnings, and Litton Industries, which increased 2 3/4, to 69 3/8, on news that it had formed an alliance with Orbital Sciences.
On the Nasdaq, Geotek rose 2 3/4, to 13 1/2, after it said it would receive an investment of $40 million from a partnership that included the financier George Soros. And Edgemark Financial jumped 13, to 36 3/4, after Old Kent Financial said it would buy the company.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (65%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (57%); NYSE MKT LLC (52%); CHEMICAL BANK (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); INFLATION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); MALNUTRITION (62%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



45 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
DuPont Merck Repackaging Costly

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
Members of Congress and Congressional aides said yesterday that a change in packaging of four drugs that will result in sharply higher prices showed the need for the mandatory drug price restraints in President Clinton's health care program.
The Du Pont Merck Pharmaceutical Company, which is based in Wilmington, Del., notified hospital pharmacies on Oct. 25 that four drugs will be sold in bottles starting on Jan. 1. That will effectively raise the prices to a range of $40 to $50 for 100 pills, from $2.50 to $5 for 100 now. 
 In a letter to the pharmacies, Du Pont Merck said it would stop making and selling individually wrapped "unit dose blister packages" of Coumadin, an anti-clotting drug; Percodan and Percocet, which reduce pain, and Symmetrel, an anti-viral drug.
Du Pont Merck Pharmaceutical is a joint venture of Merck & Company, the world's largest drug maker, and E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, the giant chemical concern.
Jeffrey Bourret, pharmacy director of the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center in Philadelphia, said hospitals would be forced to consider alternative products or assume the added costs. Hospitals use the individual packages to avert the kind of mistakes in which patients could get the wrong medicine.
Representative Pete Stark, Democrat of California, accused the company of "price gouging." Mr. Stark heads the health subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee, which has an important role in drafting health care legislation.
Mr. Stark said in a telephone interview that Du Pont Merck had provided "an indication of one reason why you can't have voluntary price controls." He added, "Any bill will have to have some kind of cost controls for pharmaceuticals."
Comparing the change in packaging to the tactics of candy makers who reduce the size of candy bars to mask price increases, he said, "You would have to be checking all the packages."
Du Pont Merck Pharmaceutical is one of 18 companies that have promised to help restrain health costs by keeping average price increases on drugs within the annual inflation rate. The companies strongly oppose Government restraints.
Robert Perkins, a spokesman for Du Pont Merck, said the action was consistent with that promise. "This is a product discontinuance, not a price increase, unrelated to our commitment to keep drug prices within inflation," he said.
The company said its profit margins were too low on the blister packages, which, it added, had only 7 percent of the market for the four drugs. Mr. Perkins declined to disclose the size of the market and the profits on these products.
However, John M. Coster, an aide to Senator David A. Pryor of Arkansas, asked, "If it is such a small part of the market, why would they risk the political fallout of making a move like this at this time?" Senator Pryor, a Democrat, heads the Committee on Aging.
Representative Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat who is a member of the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on health, said that discontinuing the individual packages could "produce a situation that is less safe for patients."
A spokesman for Merck & Company, one of the parents, which initiated voluntary restraints on drug prices several years ago, referred a request for comment to Mr. Perkins.
Analysts said this was not the first time that the joint venture, which is headed by former Du Pont executives, had been slow to follow Merck on industry-policy questions. Members of Congress criticized Du Pont Merck Pharmaceutical in 1991, citing its sharp price increases to hospitals, which blunted the effect of a law requiring drug makers to offer their lowest prices to the poor through state Medicaid programs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Pete Stark of California, who heads the House Ways and Means health panel, accused Du Pont Merck Pharmaceutical of "price gouging." (George Tames)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (98%); MRK (NYSE) (98%); DUPP (PAR) (94%); DD (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (98%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (94%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (94%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: DU PONT MERCK PHARMACEUTICAL CO MERCK & CO INC (98%); E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (94%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DU PONT MERCK PHARMACEUTICAL CO UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PRICES; CONTAINERS AND PACKAGING PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); HOSPITALS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PHARMACIES (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); DRUG PRICES (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ANTICOAGULANTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (76%); ANTIVIRALS (73%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (73%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (73%); CHEMICALS MFG (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (72%); MARKET SIZE (62%); AGING (50%); 

PERSON: PETE STARK (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%); MARK PRYOR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



46 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 ELECTIONS: Voters;
In New Jersey, Concern Over Taxes and Trust

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

 BODY:
It was the voters' turn to be heard in New Jersey's governor's race yesterday, and as they left their polling booths in elementary schools and fire houses, in centers for the elderly and libraries, they described their anger about higher taxes and their worries about a poor economy. Above all, they talked of the question that came to dominate the race: whether Gov. Jim Florio deserved another term.
A survey of people leaving the polls and conversations with voters on a cool but sunny election day made it clear that the tax issue remained Topic A with a large number of voters. It was clearly the strongest appeal of the Republican challenger, Christine Todd Whitman, followed closely by concerns about the condition of the state's economy, honesty in government and the candidates' understanding of the public's concerns. 
 Although Mrs. Whitman won the support of some women's groups and had courted women's votes, more than half of female voters went for Mr. Florio, while Mrs. Whitman ran stronger among men, the survey showed.
By a ratio of three to one, voters who called taxes their most important issue voted for the Republican, the poll indicated. Six voters out of 10 who put the condition of the state economy at the top of their list of worries also favored Mrs. Whitman.
 
One in Four Switch
 Throughout the campaign, polls had suggested that Mrs. Whitman was indistinct and out of focus in the voters' minds. But she emerged as the candidate with the strongest appeal to people concerned with the hard issues on which the campaign was fought: jobs, taxes and the economy.
Mr. Florio, in contrast, spent more time on the campaign trail attacking Mrs. Whitman than defending his own record. Perhaps as a result, the survey showed him to be choice of voters who valued attributes in which an incumbent could be expected to show strength, such as leadership, experience and the ability to make decisions.
Those were the elements of Mr. Florio's record that won him John Canella, a Ridgewood marketing and sales manager. "I'd like to give Mr. Florio one more election term to make good," Mr. Canella said. "He's made some tough decision that in the long run will get the state back on track."
According to the survey, conducted by Voter Research and Surveys, Governor Florio lost about a quarter of the people who voted for him four years ago.
 
The Honesty Issue
 One of these was Joy Purdy, a state employee who lives in Lawrenceville. She said a pointed concern about higher taxes and a more general wish to see a new face in the statehouse motivated her to change her allegiance and vote for Mrs. Whitman.
"I would say, taxes and auto insurance were the main things on my mind," Ms. Purdy said. "I know it's nothing I can blame Florio for alone, but I just thought, after all we've been through, that it was time for a change."
The survey of about 1,800 people leaving polling places around the state also showed that Mr. Florio had clearly lost ground among the voters on key aspects of his candidacy.
Yesterday's survey revealed that more than half of the voters believed the Governor's $2.8 billion tax increase was wrong; of that group, eight out of ten voted for Mrs. Whitman.
Mrs. Whitman also had sought to damage the Governor on the issues of honesty and trustworthiness, noting that he raised taxes after a campaign in which he said he saw no need for higher levies and that his chief of staff had resigned amid charges, which he denied, of conflict of interest.
Apparently, she succeeded. Honesty and trustworthiness were among the qualities that many voters, about a quarter of the total polled, said were most important in a governor, and Mrs. Whitman won better than seven out of ten of those votes.
 
Support for Gun Control
 Mr. Florio seemed to be less successful in his effort to portray his opponent as rich and unfeeling toward the problems of ordinary families. A fifth of the voters said it was important to have someone "in touch with the needs of the voters."
Almost seven out of ten voters who put that quality first in their choice of governor said they voted for Mrs. Whitman, who was credited with doing much to portray herself as a warm and relaxed person, in contrast to Mr. Florio's characteristic intensity, in the three candidates' debates last month.
But Mr. Florio held his own on gun control and the related issue of crime, the two most frequently mentioned topics of concern to voters after questions of taxes and the economy. Mr. Florio won better than two out of three voters who gave those issues as their prime concerns.
Mr. Florio also carried voters concerned about school financing, a state role the Governor has championed.
After voting at the West Windsor Senior Ciizens Center, Lynn Thornton, who is active in the West Windsor-Plainsboro Regional School System, said Mrs. Whitman's proposal to cut income taxes for most voters by 30 percent over three years, and her stand in favor of school vouchers, allowing parents to spend school tax appropriations at the school of their choice, were unacceptable.
"We are a very highly taxed area, and I understand the feeling people have about paying higher taxes," Ms. Thornton said. "And I don't think Florio has been a perfect governor. But to me, Mrs. Whitman just doesn't have a credible program."
As a token of how tax-shy New Jersey's voters have become, two out of three voters said yesterday that they would rather have lower taxes and fewer state services than the other way around. Mrs. Whitman won this low-taxes, low-services vote by nearly two to one.
The survey also clearly showed what campaign-scarred candidates have known for weeks, that many New Jerseyans voted their doubts and dislikes yesterday. Only a little more than one out of three voters strongly liked their choice, while the other two thirds either expressed doubts about their choice, or chose one because they disliked the other.
"I had a very clear choice," said Joseph J. Patrizze, a Hackensack police officer who was clearly among the latter group. "Florio lied to us. He promised us that he wouldn't raise taxes and he did. I don't forgive so easily, and I feel it's time to give someone else a chance to do the job."
 
How the Polls Were Conducted
 The Election Day polls were based on questionnaires completed by voters as they left voting stations yesterday throughout New York City and New Jersey.
The polls were conducted by Voter Research and Surveys, an organization created in 1990 by ABC News, CBS News, CNN and NBC News.
The New York City results are based on 1,746 voters located in 40 randomly selected precincts throughout all five boroughs of the city. The New Jersey results are based on 1,812 voters in 40 randomly selected precincts throughout all parts of that state.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results from such polls should differ by only a few percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all voters who turned out in New York City or New Jersey yesterday. The potential sampling error was plus or minus 3 percentage points for New York City and 3 percentage points for New Jersey.
Results based on smaller subgroups have a larger potential sampling error. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of voter opinion on Election Day, like the reluctance of some voters to take the time to fill out questionnaires, may introduce other sources of error into the poll.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Voters signing in yesterday to vote in Trenton. New Jerseyans voted for governor, the state legislature and municipal offices. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "THE POLLS: The Race for Governor: The Decisive Issues" shows poll results between Whitman and Florio on various issues. (Source: Voter Research and Surveys, based on exit polls of 1,812 voters leaving 40 polling places throughout the state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); WOMEN (73%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (72%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



47 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Prosecutors Pick Up Pace In Trial of Blast Suspects

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

 BODY:
Two more defendants were linked for the first time yesterday to evidence in the World Trade Center bombing trial, as the Government sought to tie one man to chemicals used in the blast and another to a motive of anger over American aid to Israel.
Coming as prosecutors ended a four-week-long windup on the devastation of the Feb. 26 explosion and the investigative trail leading to a yellow Ryder rental van that has been implicated as the bomb-delivery vehicle, the testimony signaled a speedup in the pace, something long sought by Judge Kevin T. Duffy. 
 In the first attempt to establish a motive for the attack, prosecutors read from an immigration statement of a defendant, Ahmad M. Ajaj, a 27-year-old Palestinian who claimed he had been tortured by Israeli forces with electric shocks and cigarette burns.
Then in an unusual twist, his lawyer, Austin V. Campriello, expanded on the often lurid account with reports from Amnesty International on the use of torture by Israeli authorities. Defense lawyers said his aim was to show that Mr. Ajaj's application for amnesty in the United States was legitimate, and, not incidentally, to draw some sympathy from the jurors on his plight.
The second defendant named yesterday, Nidal A. Ayyad, a 26-year-old naturalized United States citizen with Palestinian roots, was identified as a chemical engineer for Allied-Signal, the chemical manufacturer in Morristown, N.J.
In what appeared to be an attempt to show that Mr. Ayyad had no professional reason to use chemicals linked to the half-ton trade center bomb, a prosecutor asked two of Mr. Ayyad's bosses if he worked with any of a list of chemicals, including highly explosive hydrogen gas. In each case the answer was no.
The naming of Mr. Ajaj and Mr. Ayyad followed Monday's identification in court of another defendant, Mohammed A. Salameh, a 26-year-old Palestinian who an executive of the Ryder Rental Agency testified had rented a yellow Ford Econoline van from a Jersey City dealership on Feb. 23. Experts from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the insurance industry testified earlier that blown-apart vehicle parts retrieved from the blast rubble came from a Ford van traced to Ryder.
This leaves only the fourth defendant -- Mahmud Abouhalima, a 33-year-old Egyptian-born cabdriver -- to be linked to the bombing by prosecution evidence.
After more than four weeks spent on the blast scene and the van, the shift of the prosecutorial spotlight to Mr. Ajaj seemed to move the proceedings into a new realm.
As Mr. Campriello has sought to impress on the jury of eight women and four men, Mr. Ajaj, who was detained with manuals on bombing as he stepped off a plane on Sept. 1, 1992, was in jail from almost half a year before the bombing until after it.
The Government contends that Mr. Ajaj, using a false passport, flew to the United States from Pakistan with a missing defendant, Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, to aid the bombing plot.
Prosecutors have also sought to link the attack in part to anger over American aid for Israel.
In what appeared to be an effort to buttress this motive, an assistant United States attorney, Henry J. DePippo yesterday sought to show that Mr. Ajaj held animosity toward Israel since he was a child, including a beating he said he was given by an Israeli soldier when he was a third grader.
Mr. Campriello sought to introduce photographs of Mr. Ajaj's wounds that he said had been administered by the Israelis, but Judge Duffy ruled they were not admissible under the Government's exhibit of the first application.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (56%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (56%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; TRIALS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS BOMBINGS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); FALSE IMPRISONMENT (78%); EXPLOSIVES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (77%); NATURALIZATION (74%); TERRORISM (73%); CHEMICALS (72%); CHEMICALS MFG (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); IMMIGRATION (69%); INSURANCE (61%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); 

PERSON: BLUMENTHAL, RALPH; AYYAD, NIDAL A; AJAJ, AHMAD M TZIPORA LIVNI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



48 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Chief Resigning From Convention Bureau

 BODY:
Marshall E. Murdaugh, president and chief executive of the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau for the last five years, resigned unexpectedly yesterday, effective Jan. 1. The 52-year-old Mr. Murdaugh has a year remaining on his contract.
The search for a successor to run the highly visible $7.8 million office will begin soon, said the bureau chairman, Arthur A. Surin, who is a senior vice president of the Hilton Hotels Corporation. 
 The 70-person bureau is the official promoter and marketer of New York City's image and attractions, although hotels, airlines, restaurants and the Broadway theater spend millions more advertising the wares of the city.
Last year 24.8 million visitors came to New York, including 5.5 million foreign tourists, but that was only slightly more than the 24.7 million visitors in 1989, including 4.9 million foreigners. That relatively lackluster performance is generally attributed to the weak economy of the last few years, especially in the Northeast, but industry officials also blame taxes totaling 21.25 percent on hotel rooms costing more than $100 a night.
Mr. Murdaugh did not return a telephone call yesterday seeking comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HLT (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (83%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CONVENTION AND VISTORS BUREAU HILTON WORLDWIDE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CONVENTION AND VISTORS BUREAU

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (91%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (91%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TOURISM (88%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); THEATER (69%); THEATER & DRAMA (69%); 

PERSON: MURDAUGH, MARSHALL E

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



49 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Raising some red flags over those stalwart utility stocks.

BYLINE: By Agis Salpukas

 BODY:
AS interest rates have fallen, increasing numbers of small investors have shifted their money into utility stocks or mutual funds heavily invested in utilities.
"A retired person used to getting 8 percent on his or her $100,000 who has watched that go down to 4 percent in their C.D. account now puts the money in a utility mutual fund," said Tracey L. Tuttle, a utility analyst at Prudential Securities, which runs one of the oldest and largest utility mutual funds. "They are happy to get 5 percent." 
 It is a truism that utilities are safer than more volatile industries. Even though their stocks grew slowly in the last 20 years as utilities expanded with the economy, there were few surprises because they were often a monopoly. And they paid steady, often increasing dividends.
Such traditional thinking has helped push utility stocks up about 16 percent this year. But new reports from Wall Street analysts could prove troubling to the risk-averse investors seeking steady returns in utilities.
Analysts at Prudential Securities and Standard & Poor's recently revised their outlooks for utility stocks to take into account the riskier times ahead for the industry. Moody's Investors Service also said this week that it expected the ratings on the average senior secured bonds for the 50 largest domestic utilities to fall in the next three years.
Among the utilities S.& P. put on creditwatch were: Northeast Utilities of Hartford, Central Maine Power of Augusta, Centerior Energy of Cleveland, the Public Service Company of New Mexico in Albuquerque and TNP Enterprises of Fort Worth.
The reason for the analysts' concern is what the industry calls "retail wheeling." Under the concept, which is being considered by many states, big industrial customers could bypass the local utility to buy lower-cost power from utilities in other areas or states. If states decide to allow it, most utilities will for the first time face competition for their large industrial customers.
Barry Abramson, a vice president at Prudential who follows the industry, said this would put pressure on local utilities to offer industrial customers lower rates, lest they buy power elsewhere.
Even the stronger utilities are expected to feel the pressure.
Consequently, Mr. Abramson said, his firm developed a new index to measure a utility's dependence on big industrial users.
Under the index, which measures risk on a scale of 1 to 5, seven utilities had scores above 4, making them most susceptible to pressure from increased competition: Centerior Energy, 4.57; Detroit Edison, 4.43; Carolina Light and Power of Raleigh, N.C., 4.14; Ohio Edison of Akron, 4.14; Nipsco of Hammond, Ind., 4.14; Baltimore Gas and Electric, 4.14, and Commonwealth Edison of Chicago, 4.00.
The least susceptible utilities, those with scores of 2.00 or below were: Florida Progress of St. Petersburg, 1.71; Kentucky Utilities of Lexington, 1.86; Texas Utilities of Dallas, 1.86; PSI Resources of Plainfield, Ind., 2.00; the Southern Company of Atlanta, 2.00, and Dominion Resources of Richmond, 2.00.
S.& P. in a re-evaluation of the industry announced last week gave about 40 utilities more pessimistic ratings for the future. S.& P. said that its action was to take into account the tougher times that many utilities would face.
Mr. Abramson said that utilities that lost revenue from industrial customers would have a difficult time recouping it by raising rates for residential customers. Such moves are generally subject to approval by local rate commissions and often face fierce opposition from the smaller customers.
Lower revenues would cut profits, which would put pressure on the utilities' managements to cut dividends -- the big reason that investors put their nest eggs into the stocks in the first place.
Mr. Abramson is worried that there may be some painful surprises for smaller investors who still view the industry as a haven in which managements are committed to paying steady dividends. His advice is to pay closer attention to earning reports and to the new ratings, which seek to bring some means to measure the effects of the new competitive environment that is expected.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: FE (NYSE) (91%); NU (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (66%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (77%); MARYLAND, USA (51%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (65%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (54%); AUGUSTA, ME, USA (54%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (51%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (50%); AKRON, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FIRSTENERGY CORP (91%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (68%); PUBLIC SERVICE CO OF NEW MEXICO (66%); NORTHEAST UTILITIES (54%); DETROIT EDISON CO (51%); BALTIMORE GAS & ELECTRIC CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (77%); MARYLAND, USA (51%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (65%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (54%); AUGUSTA, ME, USA (54%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (51%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (50%); AKRON, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC UTILITIES; STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (87%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



50 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1605 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 ELECTIONS: Mayor;
GIULIANI OUSTS DINKINS BY A THIN MARGIN; WHITMAN IS AN UPSET WINNER OVER FLORIO

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Rudolph William Giuliani, a tavern owner's son who challenged Wall Street, political corruption and the mob as one of the nation's fiercest prosecutors, edged out David N. Dinkins last night for the right to take on municipal government and become the 107th Mayor of New York City -- the first Republican to lead it in a generation.
 
In a near-mirror image of his 2 percentage-point loss to Mr. Dinkins four years ago, Mr. Giuliani won in unofficial returns by sweeping the white ethnic neighborhoods in Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island that have been his political base, solidifying his hold on Republicans and drawing wisps of new support from crossover Democrats. But he fell short of creating the broad new moderate coalition he had hoped for.
 
A Fragile Alliance
 Mr. Dinkins, the old-line liberal Democrat who pieced together a fragile interracial alliance to become New York City's first black mayor, ran a feisty campaign and held onto most of it, but not enough to avoid becoming the first black mayor of a major American city to be defeated in his first re-election bid.
With 100 percent of election districts reporting in unofficial returns, the vote was:
Giuliani . . . . . . 903,114 (50.7%)
Dinkins . . . . . . 858,868 (48.3%)
 George J. Marlin, the nominee of the Conservative and Right to Life Parties, had 10,287 votes, or 1 percent. A bit more than half of the city's nearly 3.3 million registered voters turned out, below the 60 percent level of 1989.
"You gave me your vote and I accept the responsibility that goes with it," Mr. Giuliani told his cheering supporters at the New York Hilton shortly before 2 A.M. "My administration will be universal in its concern, sensitive to our diversity and evenhanded in every way possible. You know, nobody, no ethnic, religious or racial group will escape my care, my concern and my attention."
 
Praise for Dinkins
 He praised Mr. Dinkins's service to New York, as the crowd applauded, and vowed to "reach out to every community in New York City." He said he would be "an activist mayor" who "won't even begin to think about pausing for breath until our city is being managed and on the road to social and economic recovery."
About 20 minutes earlier, the Mayor took the stage in his headquarters at the Sheraton New York, having called Mr. Giuliani to concede. Chants of "recount" filled the room, but Mr. Dinkins, his voice hoarse, said: "The people have spoken They have. They have. And I respect their judgment and I respect their decision and we all must respect their judgment and their decision."
He added: "We must all reach out to Mayor-elect Giuliani," as chants of "no, no" rose up. "We must, we must help him to be as good a mayor as he can be," he said, asking the crowd to pray for Mr. Giuliani and the city.
Aides to Mr. Dinkins said he had insisted on conceding, despite the close result, because he knew how high passions had run in the city and did not wish to do anything to make them worse, saying that he hoped his entire mayoralty had stood for bringing the city together.
As it was, at the Mayor's uptown headquarters in Harlem, Percy E. Sutton, the former Manhattan Borough President and one of Mr. Dinkins's oldest friends, expressed sadness and some anger. "If they could have done for us in our communities what we did for them, then we would be winners tonight," Mr. Sutton said, referring to the Democrats who defected to Mr. Giuliani. "We are an extremely hurt people on this night, African-Americans."
Board of Elections officials said 28,500 absentee ballots were in hand, waiting to be opened on Nov. 12, along with an additional 20,000 still outstanding, and an undetermined number of paper ballots cast yesterday due to missing registrations or other disputes at polling sites. Historically, results from absentee and paper ballots are cast in comparable proportion to machine tallies from polling places.
In all but its outcome, the election was a striking replay of the 1989 contest, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls by Voter Research and Surveys, a consortium of four television networks. In virtually all broad demographic and political categories, Mr. Dinkins did about as well as he did four years ago. He won more than 90 percent of the black vote, about one-quarter of the white vote, nearly two-thirds of the Hispanic vote, and nearly 4 in 10 Jewish votes -- all comparable to his 1989 tallies. The Mayor held onto 7 in 10 Democrats, and white liberal voters remained evenly split.
 
Where Giuliani Gained
 Only among Republicans and voters with high school diplomas did Mr. Giuliani do appreciably better than last time, holding on to 9 in 10 Republican votes, compared with 8 in 10 last time, and winning the support of nearly 6 in 10 high school graduates, compared with 4 in 10 four years ago. Mr. Dinkins did notably better only among voters with incomes greater than $100,000 a year, taking nearly 4 in 10 of their votes, compared with 2 in 10 last time.
The relative composition of the electorate was exactly the same as four years ago, with whites constituting about 6 in 10 voters, blacks nearly 3 in 10 and Hispanic voters just over 1 in 10 percent, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls conducted by Voter Research and Surveys. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus 3 percentage points. Besides sampling error, the Election Day polls can contain additional errors because of respondents who refuse to fill out questionnaires.
By almost every measure, the electorate was narrowly divided, though starkly polarized along racial lines. Nearly 4 in 10 of the voters selected crime as one of the two issues that mattered most in their decision, and two-thirds of them voted for Mr. Giuliani. One-fifth picked race relations, and two-thirds of them voted for Mr. Dinkins. A quarter selected quality of life, and they were split between the two candidates.
Four in 10 voters said they thought race relations had stayed the same or improved in the last few years, and more than 7 in 10 voted for Mr. Dinkins. Just over half said race relations were worse, and almost 7 in 10 of them chose Mr. Giuliani. One-fifth of the voters said ability to "bring the city togther" was one of the most important factors in their choice, and these voters were split between the candidates.
Similiarly, about 4 in 10 voters said they thought New York was as safe or safer than four years ago, and more than three-quarters of these people voted for Mr. Dinkins. More than half said it was less safe, and three-quarters of them voted for Mr. Giuliani.
Running on the Republican and Liberal Party lines and invoking the fusion legacy of Fiorello H. LaGuardia, Mr. Giuliani campaigned on a platform of back-to-basics municipal services, pledging to crack down on crime, improve the quality of life, reshape the bureaucracy and challenge the hegemony of municipal unions and entrenched Democratic politics.
A 49-year-old native of Brooklyn, a product of parochial schools there and on Long Island, where he moved at age 7, Mr. Giuliani often noted that he has lived or gone to school in every one of the city's five boroughs but Staten Island. He promised to to lead the city toward a 21st century of common interests rooted in its melting-pot past.
Mr. Dinkins, a 66-year-old regular Democrat who climbed cautiously through the remnants of the city's Tammany Hall machine, won office on a pledge of racial healing, and he likened the city to a gorgeous mosaic of racial and ethnic diversity. During his tenure, however, he was hard-pressed by overwhelming budget shortfalls to deliver on his expansive agenda of social programs for the poor, and often seemed equally hard-pressed to fulfill his vision of harmony, as he struggled to confront anti-Jewish violence on the streets of Crown Heights two years ago.
The candidates' verbal jousting continued through Election Day itself, after each voted on the Upper East Side, Mr. Dinkins near Gracie Mansion, and Mr. Giuliani near his apartment on 86th Street.
The Mayor called a noon news conference at City Hall to accuse the Giuliani camp of waging "an outrageous campaign of voter intimidation and dirty tricks." Mr. Dinkins based his accusation on three unproved allegations from his poll watchers and campaign workers, including a charge that hundreds of small posters urging a Dinkins vote in English and Spanish had been put up in Washington Heights and the Bronx. The posters suggested that illegal immigrants would be arrested at the polls and deported if they tried to vote.
Mr. Giuliani said, "I can assure you this has nothing to do with my campaign and it is precisely what we expected from them."
The Dinkins-Giuliani rematch, which all but began the moment the Mayor was elected four years ago next week, was in some ways more tense and bitter than their first contest. Over the last two years, supporters of both camps feinted and sparred, with Mr. Giuliani complaining that the Mayor was too willing to retreat "into black victimization" in the face of his problems in office, and Mr. Dinkins's campaign manager, Bill Lynch, likening Mr. Giuliani to David Duke, the former Ku Klux Klan leader and legislator, for his speech to a rowdy rally of off-duty police officers last year.
The Mayor wound up his campaign by importing a parade of prominent national Democrats and broadcasting a ferocious ad using footage of Mr. Giuliani's speech to the police rally, while Mr. Giuliani emphasized his endorsements by leading Democrats like Mr. Koch and former Deputy Mayor Robert F. Wagner Jr.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Christine Todd Whitman, who became the first woman elected Governor of New Jersey, and Rudolph W. Giuliani, who won a slim victory in New York City's mayoral race, with David Garth, his campaign adviser. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) (pg. A1); Supporters of Mayor David N. Dinkins watching results of the election last night at the Sheraton New York. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) (pg. B3)
 
Graph: "THE POLLS: The Race for Mayor: Where They Drew Their Support" shows percentage breakdowns of voter support according to race/ethnicity and religion. (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION RESULTS; BLACKS (IN US); JEWS; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); MAYORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CORRUPTION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITY LIFE (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (66%); JEWS & JUDAISM (62%); RELIGION (61%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (50%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; SUTTON, PERCY RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



51 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: High Court Says Surcharges For Hospitals Are Acceptable

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: NEWARK, Nov. 2

 BODY:
The United States Supreme Court has decided not to hear an appeal over hospital bills that led to major changes in New Jersey's health-care payment laws last year.
The decision, announced Monday, will allow hospitals to pursue an estimated $130 million in disputed billings, a lawyer for the New Jersey Hospital Association said. 
 The Court let stand a ruling by the Federal Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, in Philadelphia, that said states may legally require people who have insurance to help pay the hospital costs of people who do not.
The appeals court had overturned a May 1992 decision in which Federal District Judge Alfred M. Wolin said such cost shifting was illegal. Judge Wolin struck down New Jersey's system of putting surcharges on all hospital bills to balance the costs of charity care and bad debt between rich and poor communities.
 
Elected Officials Took Action
 Though New Jersey appealed the decision and eventually won, Judge Wolin's ruling led Gov. Jim Florio and the Republican-led Legislature to overhaul the state's health-care payment system.
New laws enacted last November deregulated most hospital rates and replaced the surcharges with a subsidy fund for the neediest hospitals, which was financed by a payroll tax on employers and employees.
To prevent a voter outcry over the new tax, unemployment taxes were lowered simultaneously by the same amount. But the law includes a "trigger" that will automatically raise taxes if the unemployment fund dips too low to cover claims after next July.
A group of labor unions had sued to overturn the original payment system, saying the hospital surcharges, which forced those with insurance to finance the care of those without it, made union labor uncompetitive because unions require employers to pay health benefits.
While the case was being argued in court, a number of unions withheld the surcharge from the hospitals. The hospital association now plans to seek a state court order to get the money from the unions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (92%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (92%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; STATES (US); HOSPITALS; FINANCES; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS HOSPITALS (92%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LABOR UNIONS (87%); VERDICTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); JUDGES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); LAWYERS (75%); TAX INCREASES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CORPORATE TAX (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



52 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1542 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 ELECTIONS: GIULIANI OUSTS DINKINS BY A THIN MARGIN; WHITMAN IS AN UPSET WINNER OVER FLORIO;
New Jersey Anger Over Taxes Propels Challenger

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY

 BODY:
Christine Todd Whitman harnessed lingering anger over taxes and scored an upset victory over Gov. Jim Florio last night to become the first woman to be Governor of New Jersey.
"The people of New Jersey have spoken more eloquently than I can," Mrs. Whitman told a cheering crowd at her campaign headquarters near Princeton about 12:25 this morning, only moments after she received a telephone call from Mr. Florio in which he conceded defeat. 
 About the same time that Mrs. Whitman was talking to her gleeful supporters, a grim-faced Mr. Florio was standing before a near-silent gathering at a hotel in East Brunswick.
"It appears we have come up a little short," said Mr. Florio, the first sitting Governor in New Jersey's history to lose in a general election.
He did not offer congratulations to Mrs. Whitman, but promised to work with her to make the transition smooth.
Mrs. Whitman will govern with a Republican-controlled Legislature as she tries to make good on her campaign promises, including a pledge to cut income taxes by a total of 30 percent over 3 years. [Page B8.]
Mr. Florio, once considered irreparably damaged by voter anger over taxes, made surprisingly strong showings in late polls, which showed him well ahead during the last month of the campaign. Last night Mrs. Whitman proved the resiliency of her message as well as the unreliability of the polls.
 
Voters Traditionally Volatile
 With 99 percent or 5,938 of the state's 5,997 precincts reporting, Mrs. Whitman was ahead, 50 percent to 48 percent. She had 1,208,289 votes, while Mr. Florio had 1,175,238. The remaining vote was split among 17 independent or third-party candidates for Governor.
Most recent polls had shown a markedly different trend, giving Mr. Florio a comfortable lead. But there also were indications -- most notably an increase in Mr. Florio's negatives in recent weeks -- that Mrs. Whitman's ads were beginning to register among a sizable part of the state's traditionally volatile electorate.
Carl Golden, the spokesman for Mrs. Whitman, said yesterday that the candidate's message against the Florio taxes "broke through the clutter that was out there."
"We decided we'd have a single message and drive it every day," he said. "We drove it everywhere and it broke through."
And Michael Murphy, media strategist for the Whitman campaign, said: "Jim Florio's negative campaign has backfired. I think it worked in September, but people took another look at Christie Whitman in October."
Mr. Florio had spent the last six months trying to paint Mrs. Whitman as unfit for the job because of her inexperience and because of an immense wealth that he said made her unable to relate to the common voter. But despite the real doubts about Mrs. Whitman and the credibility of her tax plan, in the end a majority of voters apparently could not overcome their anger with Mr. Florio over a $2.8 billion tax increase he pushed through three years ago after campaigning on a pledge of no new taxes.
New Jersey's electorate has long been a faithful gauge of national trends among voters. For that reason, politicians nationwide who have either raised taxes or are contemplating it, especially President Clinton, were carefully watching the outcome of the New Jersey race.
The race also attracted national attention because the candidates hired two of the best-known and most successful political strategists in the nation: James Carville in the Florio camp and Edward J. Rollins Jr. in the Whitman campaign.
There was particular interest in the question of whether the magic touch was still with Mr. Carville, who turned to the Florio campaign after helping guide another Governor, Bill Clinton, to the Presidency. Mr. Carville began working on Mr. Florio's re-election campaign more than a year ago, when there was ample evidence to suggest that the Governor would serve only one term in one of the most powerful governorships in the nation.
 
'We Just Didn't Do It'
 This morning Mr. Carville appeared dumbfounded by Mr. Florio's defeat, accepting personal responsibility for it.
"I'm disappointed in myself," he told a cluster of reporters. "I feel like I let the Governor down. We just didn't do it; in the end, we didn't make it."
The issues that mattered most to New Jersey voters yesterday in the gubernatorial race coincided with the themes that each major-party candidate pushed on the stump.
Those who participated in a poll of voters who had just cast their ballots and who said they were supporters of Mr. Florio listed gun control, jobs and the economy and crime as the most important issues for them. For Whitman voters, taxes, jobs and the economy and corruption were the issues that weighed most heavily on their choice of candidates.
When not attacking Mrs. Whitman, Mr. Florio was talking about the state's ban on semiautomatic weapons, which polls had shown was his strongest issue. In his campaign speeches and advertisements, he also linked the gun law to crime.
Mrs. Whitman, in turn, tried constantly to remind voters of the Florio tax increase. And in the debates against the Governor, in her campaign literature and in her broadcast commercials, Mrs. Whitman attacked her opponent over ethical standards and labeled as corrupt some of his his closest political allies.
Mrs. Whitman, who had never held an elected job above the county level, will be the first woman in a line of Governors that stretches back to 1624. "I do understand what it means to be the first woman governor," she told her cheering supporters this morning. It was her second try for statewide elected office.
 
Powerful Political Family
 It was a 1990 challenge against United States Senator Bill Bradley, in which she fell about 60,000 votes short of winning, that first brought wide public attention to Mrs. Whitman, a member of one of the most politically powerful and wealthiest families in the state.
The tax increase that Mr. Florio pushed through the Legislature in 1990 made him one of the most unpopular politicians in New Jersey's history. Then his ban on semiautomatic weapons and strenuous defense of that tough law made an enemy of one of the wealthiest, best-organized and most politically feared lobbying groups in the nation: the National Rifle Association.
As late as January 1992, Mr. Florio's approval ratings stood at a near-record low for a New Jersey Governor in modern times. Only 2 percent felt he had done an excellent job, 14 percent rated him good and 40 percent said he was only fair. The largest bloc of respondents rated his job performance as poor.
Mrs. Whitman had expected to capitalize on that ill will against Mr. Florio, but stumbles by her own campaign, Mr. Carville's political mischief-making and Mr. Florio's political craftiness kept her off-stride and on the defensive for most of the race.
 
Weeklong Vacation a Misstep
 In the first days after the June 8 primary, when the Florio camp had already begun the combative style of campaigning that became a hallmark of the race, Mrs. Whitman left for a weeklong vacation with her family in Idaho. It was the first of a string of decisions that even without the benefit of hindsight, manifestly hurt Mrs. Whitman's campaign.
Mrs. Whitman's strategy had been to force Mr. Florio to run on his record, including the tax increase. Instead, she spent all summer and into the fall defending herself against issues raised by the Florio campaign that were far afield from what the public expected to hear. Most of the questions dealt with Mrs. Whitman's wealth: two tax-sheltered farms, her failure to disclose her total worth and refusal, at first, to release her income-tax returns.
Mrs. Whitman ran into trouble from her own initiatives, too -- most notably when she released her ambitious economic plan, which promised to cut taxes -- including a 30 percent reduction in income taxes for some -- and to create 450,000 jobs.
Mr. Florio sarcastically derided the two-page plan as "voodoo redo" and editorial-page writers savaged her ideas.
 
A Changed Candidate
 When a New York Times/WCBS-TV News poll a week later showed her trailing Mr. Florio by 21 percentage points and the public highly skeptical of her economic plan, a startled Mrs. Whitman demoted her campaign manager, her older brother, Webster B. Todd Jr., and turned over the day-to-day running of her campaign and her political fortunes to Mr. Rollins.
Under Mr. Rollins's guidance, Mrs. Whitman became a changed candidate, putting aside her aversion to negative politicking to attack Mr. Florio and paying less attention to the daily nettling from her opponent.
In three live televised debates with Mr. Florio, she did not deliver the knockout blow that even Mr. Rollins said she needed, but she held her composure and ground.
For the second time in his political career, Mr. Florio found himself involved in an agonizingly tight race for governor.
In 1981, he lost to Thomas H. Kean, a Republican, by 1,797 votes after a recount of the nearly three million ballots cast. It took a month to recount the ballots from the Kean-Florio race, in what officials described as the most scrupulously counted election of its size in all of American history.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Christine Todd Whitman, who became the first woman elected Governor of New Jersey, and Rudolph W. Giuliani, who won a slim victory in New York City's mayoral race, with David Garth, his campaign adviser. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) (pg. A1); Gov. Jim Florio of New Jersey was applauded by his wife, Lucinda, as he conceded the election last night at the Brunswick Sheraton. (Associated Press) (pg B6)
 
Table/Map: "RESULTS: The Race for New Jersey Governor"
 Results at 1:30 A.M.

 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	COUNTY	RPTNG.	FLORIO	%	WHITMAN	%	OTHERS	%	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Atlantic	98%	36,106	58%	24,406	40%	1,254	2%	Bergen	99%	141,136	48%	152,399	52%	0	0%	Burlington	98%	60,358	51%	57,434	49%	380	0%	Camden	98%	89,345	62%	49,794	35%	4,191	3%	CapeMay	100%	18,824	53%	15,672	44%	894	3%	Cumberland	100%	17,830	50%	16,836	47%	1,002	3%	Essex	97%	111,893	58%	76,118	40%	3,296	2%	Gloucester	100%	41,931	55%	31,252	41%	2,709	4%	Hudson	96%	74,827	58%	51,779	40%	2,155	2%	Hunterdon	100%	12,893	31%	28,154	67%	1,010	2%	Mercer	100%	49,327	46%	56,396	52%	2,383	2%	Middlesex	100%	105,425	49%	104,259	48%	5,831	3%	Monmouth	100%	87,276	43%	111,215	55%	4,985	2%	Morris	96%	54,542	37%	92,043	62%	2,595	2%	Ocean	97%	76,240	46%	85,825	51%	4,772	3%	Passaic	100%	54,897	45%	65,289	53%	3,062	2%	Salem	100%	8,938	43%	10,937	52%	1,119	5%	Somerset	100%	36,361	39%	54,869	59%	1,346	1%	Sussex	100%	13,052	30%	28,614	66%	1,373	3%	Union	100%	70,137	49%	73,990	51%	0	0%	Warren	99%	11,825	39%	17,150	57%	1,081	4%	Totals	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	99%	173,163	48%	1,204,431	50%	45,438	2%	 	
 
Map distinguishes counties which for either Florio or Whitman. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); GOVERNORS (US); TAXATION ; ELECTION ISSUES; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; PUBLIC OPINION ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (73%); INCOME TAX (52%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



53 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 ELECTIONS: Mayoral Races;
New Faces Moving Into City Halls Around Nation

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
This most Irish of American cities today elected Thomas M. Menino, the grandson of Italian immigrants, its first non-Irish mayor in 63 years, a sign that the pitch of ethnic politics has been muted.
Mr. Menino, who rose from City Council President to Acting Mayor in July when Raymond L. Flynn resigned to become Ambassador to the Vatican, won overwhelmingly against James T. Brett, a veteran state representative who was the Irish-American candidate. 
 With all votes counted, Mr. Menino had 64 percent of the vote, while Mr. Brett received 36 percent. Mr. Menino and Mr. Brett are both Democrats.
The race here was one in a group that will usher in the biggest turnover of big-city mayors in more than three decades. In addition to Boston, veteran mayors were leaving office in Atlanta, Detroit, Miami and Minneapolis, as well as neighboring St. Paul, opening the door to newcomers.
 
Runoff in Miami
 But in Miami, the decision on who will occupy City Hall will have to await the results of a runoff next Tuesday between Steve Clark, a former Mayor, and Miriam Alonso, a former City Commissioner.
A runoff also seemed likely in Atlanta, where a city council member, Bill Campbell, had 49 percent of the vote with 90 percent of it counted. Michael Lomax, the former chairman of the Fulton County Commission, was in second place with 23 percent. The winner must win a majority or face a runoff, which would be held on Nov. 23.
Voters in Minneapolis rejected a campaign that concentrated on a strong anticrime message by electing Sharon Sayles Belton as Mayor. Ms. Sayles Belton will be the first woman and the first black elected to hold the office. She defeated a fellow Democrat who is a member of the Hennepin County Commissioner, John Derus, in the race to replace Don Fraser, who did not seek re-election after 14 years in office.
Mr. Derus had centered his campaign on a call for more police officers to contend with criminals and gang members. He was backed by the police union, and polls showed that crime was indeed the top issue for voters. But Ms. Sayles Belton, the endorsed Democrat, rallied a liberal coalition that included abortion rights supporters to win a substantial victory.
In St. Paul, Norm Coleman, a Democrat who is an assistant State Attorney General, handily defeated the endorsed Democratic candidate, Andy Dawkins, with a campaign that focused almost exclusively on the crime issue. Violent crime has increased little in the city in the last five years, but Mr. Coleman insisted that many residents were on the verge of fleeing. Aside from hiring 30 new police officers, Mr. Coleman did not detail how he would curtail crime.
Mr. Dawkins campaign was hampered by his admission during the campaign that he had smoked marijuana since entering the State Legislature in 1987.
 
Ex-Justice Wins in Detroit
 In a campaign to succeed Coleman A. Young, Detroit's Mayor for the last 20 years, a former State Supreme Court Justice, Dennis Archer, won after a bitter campaign.
Mr. Archer defeated the Wayne County Prosecutor, Sharon McPhail, who had been endorsed by Mr. Young. Mr. Archer was once Mr. Young's campaign manager.
Afterward, both candidates moved to make peace, with Mr. Archer saying he was "ready to work with anyone within our city and beyond our borders in an effort to redeem our city and to build a better future."
Voters in Pittsburgh elected a Democratic state legislator, Tom Murphy, as mayor over Kathy Matta, a Republican, and Duane Darkins, an independent. Mr. Murphy gained about 67 percent of the vote, The Associated Press reported, while Mr. Darkins had about 15 percent and Ms. Matta 14 percent. Mayor Sophie Masloff, the first woman to hold the post, did not seek re-election.
In Houston, the incumbent, Bob Lanier, was elected to a second term over three opponents in a nonpartisan race. The incumbent Mayor of Cleveland, Michael R. White, a Democrat, was also easily re-elected.
After his victory in Boston, Mr. Menino said: "I never set out to be the Mayor of Boston. I'm pleased. I'm excited. I just want to make a difference in people's lives."
He said he would make education a priority and planned to visit a Boston school on Wednesday.
 
Rancor Is Absent
 "I'm very proud about being the first Italian mayor," Mr. Menino said, addding, "I'll represent the whole city."
David Nyhan, a political columnist for The Boston Globe, summed up the situation, "The land of the bean and cod and Irish mayors is no longer the latter."
Many people here viewed the nonpartisan race as boring, while others, perhaps fewer in number, called it a model civics lesson because it was without name calling, stories of scandal or negative campaigning. In a city where in the first half of the 20th century James Michael Curley gained power largely by stoking Irish resentment against the Brahmins, neither candidate made much of an issue of their ethnic backgrounds. Mr. Brett, in fact, said he did not want to be stereotyped as the conservative Irish candidate.
Here, both candidates called for better schools, more police officers, a citywide ban on new handguns and a stronger economy. They divided on abortion, with Mr. Menino supporting abortion rights and Mr. Brett opposing abortion, but the issue was hardly mentioned.

GRAPHIC: Photo: After winning the mayoral race in Minneapolis last night, Sharon Sayles Belton, the first black and the first woman to hold the seat in the city, hugged her 92-year old grandmother, Hattie Wilson; Thomas M. Menino was joined by his wife, Angela, to celebrate with supporters last night after Mr. Menino defeated Representative James T. Brett to become Boston's first non-Irish-American mayor in 63 years. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); HOLY SEE (90%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY ; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY ; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; BOSTON (MASS) ; MINNEAPOLIS (MINN); ST PAUL (MINN); DETROIT (MICH); PITTSBURGH (PA) ; HOUSTON (TEX); CLEVELAND (OHIO) UNITED STATES (96%); HOLY SEE (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION RESULTS; URBAN AREAS; IRISH-AMERICANS; ITALIAN-AMERICANS ; BLACKS (IN US); WOMEN MAYORS (94%); CITIES (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (85%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); COUNTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); WOMEN (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); VIOLENT CRIME (61%); RELIGION (56%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%); ABORTION (50%); CANNABIS (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: RIMER, SARA; MENINO, THOMAS M; BRETT, JAMES T (REPR); SAYLES BELTON, SHARON ; COLEMAN, NORM; ARCHER, DENNIS; MCPHAIL, SHARON; MURPHY, TOM (MAYOR-ELECT) ; LANIER, BOB (MAYOR); WHITE, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) NORM COLEMAN (89%); THOMAS J WILSON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



54 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-18
 
GORBACHEV NOT COUNTED OUT
Although his popularity rating is low, Mikhail Gorbachev, in an interview, would not count himself out of politics and was evasive about whether he would run for President. A3
 
DEFEAT FOR JERUSALEM MAYOR
Early returns showed Teddy Kollek swept from office after 28 years as Mayor of Jerusalem. The results were a blow to Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin as well, because he had called the election a test of his agreement with the P.L.O. A18 

CONFLICT AT MIDEAST TALKS
Palestinians broke off their talks with Israel in protest over Israel's plans for repositioning troops in occupied territories, but Israel said that it expects talks to resume.A18
 
EMBARGO SQUEEZES WRONG HAITI
The oil embargo is causing severe hardship in Haiti for average citizens, but it has not worked on military leaders. Some are even getting rich, through smuggling. A7
 
CLINTON PRESSES FOR TRADE PACT
President Clinton placed the reputation of his Administration on the line, saying that rejection of the North American Free Trade Agreement would harm foreign policy and be a victory for partisan politics. A8
 
U.S. OPPOSES AMNESTY IN BALKANS
A high official said the United States has ruled out granting amnesty for war crimes in the Balkans and will seek sanctions against countries refusing to hand over suspected criminals for trial. A16
 
ITALIAN TYCOON SURRENDERS
Carlo De Benedetti, the computer tycoon who is the highest-ranking business figure arrested in Italy's bribery scandal, gave himself up, but was released under house arrest after he was questioned. A16
 
The U.S. and Russia were urged to take nuclear missiles off alert. A10
 
New guiding principles were set for the Russian Army. A11
 
U.S. urged Japan to accept a missile defense system for Asia. A12
 
U.S. and China held military talks, with peace the focus.A13
 
Colombia increased inducements for drug traders who surrender. A9
 
In London, a prosecutor described a child's killing by two boys. A16
 
Ho Chi Minh City Journal: Returning to a reviving city. A4
 
National A20-25, B13-14
 
PACKWOOD STRUGGLE CONTINUES
The Senate voted, 94 to 6, to back the ethics committee's enforcement of a subpoena for Senator Bob Packwood's personal diaries. A1
 
The fight over the diaries ventures into uncharted ground. B13
 
MORE FIRES STRIKE CALIFORNIA
A new fire driven by strong desert winds cut a swath of destruction through the Santa Monica Mountains and down to the Pacific Ocean at Malibu. A1
 
LEARNING TO LOBBY, AGAIN
Although Congress has tried to toughen the nation's lobbying laws and ethics rules, aiming to restrict lobbyists' interaction with lawmaker, the lobbyists have kept pace with the changes. B14
 
BAIL UPHELD IN BEATING CASE
A Judge refused to lower bail for Damian Williams, who was convicted in the beating of a white truck driver in Los Angeles. B14
 
NO-BEARD BAN OVERTURNED
A Federal appeals court has ruled that Domino's Pizza must waive its ban against beards for black employees who have a common skin ailment. A20
 
JURY-SELECTION BY SEX IS WEIGHED
The Supreme Court tackled the question of whether lawyers can remove potential jurors on the basis of their sex. A22
 
Archivists said the public can obtain the Court's audiotapes. A22
 
NEW VIRGINIA GOVERNOR
George Allen, a conservative former Republican Representative who once was far down in the polls, won the Virginia Governor's race. A24
 
CHALLENGE FOR DOCTORS
The Government challenged two joint ventures formed by doctors who sent patients to medical equipment companies in which the doctors had invested. A25
 
The nation's data highway is groaning under rush-hour traffic. D1
 
New home sales surged 20.8 percent in September. D1
 
Education Page B15
 
CAMPAIGN FOR MINORITY TEACHERS
The shortage of minority teachers is so bad that Philadelphia, like other big cities around the country, is bypassing the usual hiring channels to put more blacks, Hispanics and Asians in classrooms.
 
Pregnant cheerleaders can stay on the squad in Texas.
 
On Campus: Student newspapers stolen at University of Maryland.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
GIULIANI BEATS DINKINS
Rudolph W. Giuliani unseated Mayor David N. Dinkins in a reversal of their 1989 contest. Mr. Giuliani will become the first Republican to run New York City governmen in more than a generation. A1
 
A FINAL APPEAL TO SUPPORTERS
Weary but resolved, Mayor Dinkins went to the voters one final time and took at least as much comfort in the progress of African-American political history as he did in the day's critical -- and ultimately failing -- vote on his own future. A1
 
WHITMAN WINS IN NEW JERSEY
Harnessing anger over taxes in new Jersey, Christine Todd Whitman narrowly won election over Gov. Jim Florio, becoming the first woman governor of the state. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Living Section C1-14
 
At work with Sean Driscoll. C1
Drumming for the 90's: Much more than a beat. C1
One potato, two potato, more, more, more. C1
Wine Talk C12
Review/Fashion: An easy grace by de la Renta. C14
 
Health Page C16
 
Fighting the panic that M.R.I. scans induce in some patients.
Personal Health: The importance of childhood eye exams.
 
Arts/Entertainment C18-24
 
Fall auction season opens. C19
Columbia Pictures on literary ground. C19
Theater: "The Treatment." C19
Film: "Tango Player." C23
Music: Rod Stewart, live. C19
Books: "Girlhood Embroidery," in two volumes. C18
Television: "Missing Persons" and "Moon Over Miami." C24
 
Sports B16-22
 
Baseball: McDowell wins Cy Young. B17
Hockey: Rangers deal Patrick. B17
 
Obituaries D24-25
 
Severo Ochoa, biochemist who won a Nobel Prize. D25
Walter L. Palmer, an internist, scientist and a teacher. D25
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
 
Editorials
 
A misleading health estimate.
No loans to boost arms sales.
The young prove mortal again.
 
Letters
 
Bob Herbert: The verdict.
Richard Ravitch: Mantra for the Mayor -- deficit, deficit, deficit.
Amy Knight: Beria, the Reformer.
 
Bridge C18
 
Chronicle B12
 
Crossword C18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); VIETNAM (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ITALY (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (71%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (91%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: SANTA MONICA PLACE (51%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); VIETNAM (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ITALY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (71%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (91%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (88%); ETHICS (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ARMIES (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); SMUGGLING (73%); AMNESTY (71%); MOUNTAINS (71%); JUDGES (71%); ARRESTS (70%); HOUSE ARREST (70%); WAR CRIMES (70%); SUBPOENAS (70%); BAIL (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); BRIBERY (65%); SCANDALS (64%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (63%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



55 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 ELECTIONS: Virginia;
Conservative Republican Wins Easily

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Nov. 2

 BODY:
George F. Allen, a conservative former Republican Representative who once was down in the polls by 29 points, won the Virginia Governor's race today, besting former Attorney General Mary Sue Terry, a moderate Democrat.
With 75 percent of the 2,136 precincts counted, Mr. Allen had 752,527 votes, or 58 percent, while Ms. Terry had 532,341, or 41 percent. His margin of victory was one of the largest in Virginia in recent years. 
 Mr. Allen's solid victory ended a 12-year Democratic lock on the Virginia governorship. It was attributed in good measure to mounting voter dissatisfaction in the Old Dominion with Democratic office holders, both state and national.
The incumbent, L. Douglas Wilder, the first black ever elected governor of any state, could not run for a second consecutive term under Virginia law.
Besides Democratic control of the state, other important issues were debated in the campaign, some also with national implications. Among them were crime and guns, a woman's place in the American family and the political influence of the religious right within the Republican Party.
Ms. Terry conceded about 9:30 P.M. "Somewhere in Virginia tonight the first woman governor of Virginia is watching," she said. "This is a fight worth fighting. This is a fight for the right. And someday we will win."
Mr. Allen, who described the campaign as "an insurgency against overwhelming odds," said, "Principles and issues still matter to the people of Virginia."
 
Views Are Similar
 Mr. Allen's conservative Republican thinking does not differ all that much from Ms. Terry's moderate Democratic thinking. But he turned out to be better than his opponent at selling it to Virginia voters, who are mostly moderate to conservative and increasingly declaring themselves to be independents.
Mr. Allen, 41 years old and the son of George Allen, the late professional football coach, is a folksy, back-slapping politician with a sunny, made-for-TV smile. Cowboy boots poke out from under his dark suit, and when the public isn't looking, and sometimes when it is, he chews on tobacco.
But in the 1993 election, the smile and his never-too-serious banter masked a sharp sense of political timing, an adeptness at taking advantage of lucky breaks and a knack for hiring good campaign operatives and ad teams.
By contrast, Ms. Terry, 46, seemed stiff and ill-at-ease out on the hustings. While she handily beat opponents by 2-1 ratios in two runs for Attorney General in the past, her political touch and her political advisers failed her in the fall of 1993, and she found herself constantly reacting to Mr. Allen rather than taking the fight to him.
 
Tumble in Polls
 Her tumble in the polls, from 29 points ahead in May to 19 points behind in the final survey over the weekend, did more than end her hope of becoming Virginia's first female Governor and one of the few women ever elected Governor in the country. It also earned her a stinging political sobriquet -- Mary Souffle.
It was an appellation not fully merited, pollsters and political analysts said, because there was little she could do about the growing unpopularity of Democrats with Virginia voters and the drag that unpopularity was having on her campaign.
During the campaign, only one in four voters polled gave a positive job rating to the state's leading Democratic office holders, Governor Wilder and Senator Charles S. Robb, who have spent much of the past five years feuding with each other while the state, once a national growth leader, has fallen on hard economic times.
Making matters worse for Ms. Terry, only one of three Virginia voters gave a positive rating to the top Democrat of all, President Clinton, who failed to carry the state in 1992.
 
Steering Clear of Clinton
 Ms. Terry almost never campaigned with Mr. Robb or Mr. Wilder and steered well clear of asking Mr. Clinton to campaign for her.
Mr. Allen called in as many leading Republicans as he could get.
In another contest, Lt. Gov. Donald S. Beyer Jr., a Democrat and the lone incumbent in Virginia's three statewide races this year, defeated Republican challenger Michael P. Farris.
And James S. Gilmore 3d, a Republican prosecutor, easily defeated William D. Dolan 3d, a Democratic lawyer, in the race for attorney general.
The Republicans, who have not had the governor's office in Virginia since John N. Dalton's term ended in 1981, also picked up six or seven seats in state House of Representatives, bringing them almost equal to the Democrats.
As in many states, crime and gun control were important issues in the Allen-Terry campaign.
Ms. Terry called for a waiting period for gun purchases, which polls indicate most Virginians favor. But Mr. Allen, who had the support of the National Rifle Association, chose mostly to ignore the purchase issue and concentrated instead on calling for more police and stronger crime laws, including denying parole to serious offenders.
Pollsters found his approach the most effective.
The influence of the religious right in politics is increasingly important in many states, but in Virginia, where many Christian right groups are based or have strong chapters, it is especially important.
Mr. Allen won the support of most of those groups, including considerable monetary help. He responded by supporting their call for the state to help pay the tuition of students who choose to go to private or church schools.
 
Family Issues
 As for the play of family issues in the campaign, it revolved mainly around the abortion debate.
Like a majority of Virginians, Ms. Terry supports a woman's right to abortion and contended that Mr. Allen would seek to limit abortion rights as Governor. Mr. Allen countered, apparently effectively, that he was not totally against abortions but believed they needed to be strictly regulated.
Complicating the family issue, some of Mr. Allen's supporters, among them Oliver L. North, made a series of speeches around the state in which they aargued that Ms. Terry, who has never married, was not as qualified as Mr. Allen, a family man, to pass judgment on such issues as abortion and schooling.
She called the assertions absurd and mean-spirited.
Poll takers said it was difficult to determine whether the marriage issue had any effect on the outcome of today's voting. Voter surveys indicated that Mr. Allen had won the votes of at least 60 percent of the men and had done at least as well as Ms. Terry among women, possibly better.

GRAPHIC: Photo: George F. Allen, right, a Republican and former Representative, was elected Governor of Virginia yesterday. He waited for election returns with his wife, Susan, and his brother Bruce in Richmond. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (99%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIRGINIA UNITED STATES (99%); VIRGINIA, USA (99%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS; GOVERNORS (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); GOVERNORS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAWYERS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); WOMEN (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (65%); RELIGION (52%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; ALLEN, GEORGE F; TERRY, MARY SUE LAWRENCE DOUGLAS 'DOUGLAS' WILDER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



56 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: U.S. PRESSES JAPAN ON MISSILE PROJECT

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Wednesday, Nov. 3

 BODY:
On the first stop of an Asia trip intended to address the North Korean nuclear threat, Secretary of Defense Les Aspin urged Japanese officials on Tuesday to take part in a new, American-led missile defense program. But he said the Japanese would not necessarily have to offer commercial technology in return.
Mr. Aspin discussed the program, called a "theater missile defense," as he sought to build support for the Clinton Administration's strategy for dealing with North Korea's continued refusal to allow full inspection of its nuclear sites. That strategy, as described by Defense Department officials traveling with Mr. Aspin, calls for yet more talks, again delaying any move to seek economic sanctions against the Communist Government in Pyongyang. 
 "Both Japan and South Korea are concerned about allowing this to go on in a chronic, gnawing way, but no one really wants to move to sanctions yet," a senior defense official said Tuesday night, briefing reporters about Mr. Aspin's talks with Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa and other Japanese leaders.
At a news conference this morning before leaving for Seoul, Mr. Aspin refused to say how much longer the United States would negotiate with North Korea, but made it clear that he was not eager to move toward sanctions except as a last resort. "Our strategy is to try through diplomatic means to solve the issue of North Korean nuclear weapons," he said. "This problem has been caused by North Korean action, and it can be solved with North Korean action."
 
 
Some Time Left
 Earlier, Government officials in Seoul and in Washington had suggested that more delays in resolving the nuclear standoff would not be acceptable because Pyongyang could use the time to complete its first weapons. But Tuesday Mr. Aspin's aides suggested there was still some time left.
In his meetings here Tuesday, Mr. Aspin described an American plan to build a missile defense system that could be deployed on Japanese soil. The idea was first broached last month, but immediately raised concerns in Japan because it was the first time Washington had proposed trading advanced military technology for Japanese commercial technology.
The theater missile defense is part of the Pentagon's new defense strategy and is aimed chiefly at regional threats and short-range missiles. The plan replaces the now-defunct Strategic Defense Initiative.
The United States is eager for Japan to have it because Japan is considered to be one of the American allies most vulnerable to missile attack.
Eager not to breed opposition to the plan, Mr. Aspin told his hosts Tuesday that the Pentagon was also willing to sell Japan off-the-shelf systems rather than to receive technological trade secrets in return. While the Clinton Administration would prefer a "technology sharing agreement," a senior defense official traveling with Mr. Aspin said, "We do not want to hold security hostage for commercial technology."
Japanese officials concede that they have little effective defense against a new version of the Rodong missile that North Korea test-fired over the sea of Japan in June. The missile is believed to have a range of more than 600 miles, enough to reach Osaka and other major Japanese population centers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); ASIA (92%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: STRATEGIC DEFENSE SYSTEMS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA JAPAN (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); ASIA (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSILES; MILITARY STRATEGY AND TACTICS; ATOMIC WEAPONS MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); ARMED FORCES (85%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); 

PERSON: ASPIN, LES (SEC) ; SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



57 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: HAITI IS SUFFERING UNDER OIL EMBARGO

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Nov. 2 -

 BODY:
Two weeks after an oil embargo was imposed on Haiti, the streets of the capital are increasingly piled with garbage, factories are shut down, power blackouts are occurring more freqently and armed gangs are operating more freely as they rob stores and extort money.
Olivier Nadal, a co-owner of his family's import and export business, one of the largest in Haiti, said his volume had decreased so much that unless gasoline was available soon, he would have to close his doors, throwing more than 600 employes out of work. As a result of the embargo, foreign pharmaceutical companies have refused to sell him goods for fear that they may not be able to get paid. Furthermore, Mr. Nadal said, his agricultural products are rotting in the countryside because of a lack of gasoline to transport them to Port-au-Prince, the capital.
 
'Heading Toward Anarchy'
 "We've been taken hostage between the extreme left and extreme right," he said. "If the situation continues as it is now, we're heading toward anarchy." 
 Haitians, from wealthy entrepreneurs like Mr. Nadal to the average person, are suffering under the effect of the embargo and two years of political turmoil following the September 1991 coup that ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
The United Nations imposed oil and arms sanctions to force the military leaders to comply with an accord restoring Father Aristide to power signed by the ousted President and the Army leader, Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, last July on Governors Island in New York.
The United States also froze the assests and revoked the visas of 41 Haitian businessmen and military officials believed to be the architects of the coup.
Father Aristide has called for even tougher sanctions on Haiti, although many here doubt that they would be enough to remove the military from power. At the same time, Clinton Administration officials say they are opposed to broad new sanctions on Haiti right now because their effects would be felt primarily by those who can least absorb them.
So far, sanctions against Haitian military leaders have not worked. In addition, some people here say that Haitian rulers have gotten rich as a result of contraband and smuggling.
When the sanctions were voted two weeks ago, some experts estimated that Haiti had three months of oil supply left. The Prime Minister, Robert Malval, then got a court order forbidding the companies to sell their reserves, and the estimate was revised to 12 days of gasoline and 24 days of diesel fuel.
 
Support for Sanctions
 But some people hurt by the embargo still favor tighter sanctions.
Marc Celestin, 40, lives in Carrefour, a working-class suburb, in a three-room apartment with his wife and three children. He lost his job at an electronics firm when it closed two years ago and has not worked since. Though feeling victimized by the embargo, he said he would support tougher sanctions if they meant the return of Father Aristide.
"With Aristide things were going to get better," said Mr. Celestin, who ekes out a living with $100 he receives monthly from a brother living in South Florida. "The army does not want to give up power. If the United States wants them out, they have to come and get them by force. That's the only thing they understand."
For about a week the streets in the capital, and roads leading in and out, have been calm. The city's Shell filling stations are empty. The Texaco stations are deserted, and workers sit and pass the time. A gallon of gasoline, which cost $3.75 two weeks ago, can now be bought on the black market for $14. As the supply dwindles, the price could go to $20.
 
Garbage, Potholes Everywhere
 In the streets of the capital, garbage is piling up in almost every corner, creating a potential health hazard. There are potholes everywhere in a city that was once a favorite of European royal families.
Power outages, always a chronic problem, have become more frequent, with many neighborhoods receiving only about 10 hours of electricity a day. Last week, the electric company warned that if the oil shortage continues, only hospitals and communication centers will get electricity. The staff of the government daily newspaper has not been paid for seven months.
Complicating the average Haitian's existence is wanton violence. The streets are patrolled by soldiers and heavily armed civilians, known here as attaches, who are controlled by the chief of police. Every morning at least five dead bodies are discovered in various neighborhoods.
While the full impact of the embargo is difficult to estimate, about 100,000 jobs have been lost since the coup and the country's gross national product has declined 15 percent, said Stanley Schrager, director of the United States Information Services.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); 

COUNTRY: HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PIERRE, SD, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PIERRE, SD, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); EMBARGOES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); COUPS (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); SMUGGLING (74%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); ARMS EMBARGOES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); ARMIES (73%); EXTORTION (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); ELECTRONICS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); AGRICULTURE (54%); 

PERSON: PIERRE-PIERRE, GARRY MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



58 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and China Agree to Expand Defense Links

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER

DATELINE: BEIJING, Nov. 2

 BODY:
The first high-level military-to-military contact in more than four years has ended here after two days of talks between a Pentagon official and China's top military leaders.
They agreed to a "modest" agenda of future dialogue and professional exchanges on topics like international peacekeeping operations and on the problems of converting defense industries to civilian use. 
 The talks are part of a Clinton Administration effort to broaden American-Chinese relations as a means of heading off a confrontation over continuing human rights abuses in China. China's poor human rights record could force the President to curtail trade between the countries next June.
Chas. W. Freeman Jr., Assistant Secretary of Defense for Regional Security Affairs, said at a news conference that the agreed-to exchanges do not mean that the Clinton Administration is removing the sanctions it placed on China after the military crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators at Tiananmen Square in June 1989.
There was no discussion of weapons sales to China, he said, and sharp differences remain over Chinese missile sales to Pakistan and American weapon sales to Taiwan.
At a news conference this afternoon, Mr. Freeman said the long isolation of China after the Tiananmen Square massacre, in which hundreds of civilians were killed by People's Liberation Army troops, "has taken its toll in terms of mutual understanding."
"If you don't have contact and dialogue, it is easy to be unaware of the other side's viewpoint and to misinterpret that viewpoint on occasion," he said. "In other words, ignorance can breed suspicion."
The tone of Mr. Freeman's remarks, which were full of praise for China's peacekeeping record in Cambodia and its diversification of its military industries into civilian areas, underscored recent efforts by the Clinton Administration to broaden and upgrade its relationship with China after a marked deterioration during the summer.
Chinese television news tonight featured Mr. Freeman's meeting with Liu Huaqing, the vice chairman of the Central Military Commission and a close ally of Deng Xiaoping, China's senior leader. In remarks carried on the official New China News Agency, Mr. Liu said the meetings represented "a good beginning." He added that China appreciated the efforts by the Clinton Administration "for improving relations between the two military forces."
Mr. Freeman, who served as the No. 2 diplomat in the United States Embassy in Beijing from 1981-84, said that with the end of the cold war, it was not likely that the military relationship would ever return to the closeness of the days when Washington pursued strategic cooperation with Beijing to put pressure on Moscow.
Underlying this talk of a new partnership is also a deep concern by Administration officials that the President may be forced next spring to cancel China's most-favored-nation trade status with the United States because of a continuing poor record on human rights in China.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Warning of Trade Retaliation
 WASHINGTON, Nov. 2 (Reuters) -- A senior American official warned today that Washington would take retaliatory trade action if China failed to open up its markets substantially to foreign imports by a Dec. 31 deadline.
 "Dec. 31 is not a flexible deadline," said Charlene Barshefsky, deputy United States trade representative. "Absent significant liberalization, the United States will take action."
 China agreed to do away with controls on imports significantly by Dec. 31 in a memorandum of understanding with the United States signed in 1992.
 "Thus far, the offers are not adequate," Ms. Barshefsky told a news conference.
Ms. Barshefsky said Washington could take a variety of retaliatory actions, including putting duties on imports under the Trade Act. She said that negotiators from the United States and China will meet on Nov. 29-30 to discuss the issue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (69%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); FREEMAN, CHAS W JR (ASST SEC); TYLER, PATRICK E BILL CLINTON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



59 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Ho Chi Minh City Journal;
The Boat People Fly Back, With Riches to Invest

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam

 BODY:
After fleeing Vietnam seven years ago with nothing but the desperate hope to make a better life anywhere else, Minh Le returned this fall with a bottle of perfume, a bottle of champagne and $2,000 in cash.
They were gifts for his aging parents, who remained behind when Mr. Le, now 30, slipped across the border into Cambodia in 1986 and found a rickety boat to take him to Thailand. He eventually made contact with relatives in the United States, and today he is a budding computer entrepreneur in Falls Church, Va. 
 "When I left, there was nothing in Vietnam," said Mr. Le, whose pastel Hawaiian-style shirt gave him away in the streets of this city as a Viet kieu, a Vietnamese expatriate. "Now people have money. Everywhere, I see Vietnamese-Americans who are coming back to Vietnam to do business. They buy land, they buy houses, businesses. Someday I want to come back and do business here, too."
Ho Chi Minh City, the southern Vietnamese city that most inhabitants never stopped calling Saigon, is being revived to a large, and still secretive, degree by the same people who were once desperate to leave.
Nearly 20 years after the first of them risked their lives to escape Communism and poverty, many of the so-called boat people are returning, lured by a wish to help the family members they left behind and to invest in one of the most promising economies in Southeast Asia.
 
Visitors Now Welcome
 Although the Vietnamese Government initially treated the returning Vietnamese with suspicion and even scorn, it now welcomes most Vietnamese-American visitors -- and their dollars. American dollars are used in virtually all major business transactions here.
"It would be difficult for us to be rude to these Viet kieu because so many of them are our relatives," said a Vietnamese diplomat who has a cousin living in Washington and another in California. "We are a very pragmatic people. We need investment from everywhere to rebuild our country."
For several years the United States has allowed Americans to travel to Vietnam as tourists, although there are still restrictions on the amount of money they can spend here.
At Tan Son Nhut International Airport in Ho Chi Minh City -- once the central American air base in what was then the South Vietnam capital -- dozens of Vietnamese-Americans arrive every day to tearful reunions with parents and brothers and sisters.
"I am an American now," said a prosperous looking Vietnamese-American businessman from Orange County, Calif., waiting in the immigration line at the airport and holding tight to his blue American passport. He said he owned a convenience store "and I am proud because it is very successful."
 
Stacks of $100 Bills
 "Now I come back to help my family," he said. "Maybe I help myself, too." He allowed a passenger arriving on the same flight a peek inside his black calfskin attache case, which contained stacks of $100 bills. "Everybody does it," he said.
Vietnamese Government economists estimate that Vietnamese-Americans have invested hundreds of millions of dollars in their homeland in the last several years, taking advantage of free-market reforms begun in the late 1980's. But for one very good reason no one is sure exactly how many Vietnamese-American investors are here, and exactly how much money they have brought: most of the investment is illegal, a violation of the 18-year-old United States trade embargo on Vietnam.
Under Federal law, Vietnamese-Americans can provide "humanitarian assistance" for their families in Vietnam, but much of the investment clearly goes beyond that, and almost no one interviewed for this article would allow their names or their photographs to be used.
"For Vietnamese-Americans, the boom business at the beginning was Vietnamese real estate," said Yen Do, editor and publisher of the Nguoi Viet, or Vietnamese People, newspaper in Orange County, Calif., one of the largest Vietnamese dailies in the United States. "Then some began providing money-changing services. The latest boom is selling used cars brought from southern China."
Until recently, he said, it was dangerous for Vietnamese-Americans to acknowledge that they had traveled to Vietnam, let alone that they invested in the country, because of the aggressive anti-Communism of their Vietnamese-American neighbors.
"Now, everybody is going in and out of Vietnam," he said. "You can't hide it anymore because you see your neighbors from Orange County in the streets of Saigon."
Going by the rumors heard around Ho Chi Minh City -- and getting beyond those rumors can be very difficult -- whole blocks of the city are now owned by Vietnamese-Americans who have used family members living here as fronts. The relatives sign the deeds.
Two of the city's leading private hotels are said to be secretly owned by Vietnamese-Americans, as are several restaurants, travel agencies and electronics stores. While most of the Vietnamese-American investment is going to the long-capitalist southern half of the country, there is also evidence of their money in Hanoi, the capital, and elsewhere in the North.
"We are owned by Vietnamese, not by Americans, but we have many Viet kieu from America who come here to enjoy our food," said a manager of the popular Thanh Tra restaurant, where many Vietnamese-Americans play host at extravagant feasts for their families -- and for their new Vietnamese businesss partners.
 
Embargo Helps Business
 Decorated with neon lights and rows of video screens, the restaurant looks much like a disco, with loud music drowning out business conversations that a number of the restaurant's Vietnamese-American guests might not want overheard.
Beneath one of the video screens sat a Vietnamese-American businessman from San Jose, Calif., who said he had been doing business in Vietnam for nearly two years, importing American computer equipment by shipping it through other countries in Southeast Asia.
"For me, the embargo is a good thing," he said, laughing as he downed another glass of the expensive imported whisky that is often used here to toast new business deals. "It keeps out the competition."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many expatriate Vietnamese are returning to their homeland, to help relatives left behind and to invest in one of the most promising economies in Southeast Asia. Patrons dined under video screens at the Thanh Tra restaurant in Ho Chi Minh City, where many Vietnamese-Americans play host at extravagant feasts for their families. (Philip Shenon/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (99%); VIETNAM (94%); THAILAND (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); ASIA (91%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); CENTRAL AMERICA (77%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (94%); 

COMPANY: ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (99%); VIETNAM (94%); THAILAND (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); ASIA (91%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); CENTRAL AMERICA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (94%); 

SUBJECT: VIETNAMESE-AMERICANS; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); REFUGEES (78%); FAMILY (78%); IMMIGRATION (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); TRENDS (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (71%); AIRPORTS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); AGING (57%); CONVENIENCE STORES (50%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



60 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: TURNING UP HEAT IN TRADE CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
President Clinton placed the reputation of his 10-month-old Administration on the line today, declaring that rejection of the North American Free Trade Agreement would be a "profound setback" to United States foreign policy.
Emphasizing the bipartisan support for the trade agreement, Mr. Clinton brought to the White House several former secretaries of state and the Treasury and a group of Nobel prize laureates who have endorsed the pact. 
 It was an unusual tableau. Mr. Clinton sat beside President Jimmy Carter as well as former Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, who ran President George Bush's unsuccessful re-election campaign last year. And Henry A. Kissinger, who was Secretary of State for President Richard M. Nixon, joined them in describing the possibility of the agreement's defeat in near-apocalyptic terms.
In mid-September, Mr. Clinton began his full-scale campaign for the trade agreement with a similar White House ceremony that included Mr. Carter, Mr. Bush and former President Gerald R. Ford. At that time, Mr. Clinton emphasized "the important stakes for our nation in this issue."
He returned to a similar theme today, saying, "This is a decision which will demonstrate whether in this difficult moment, we still have confidence in ourselves and our potential."
 
Some See 'Litmus Test'
 Mr. Carter said that rejection of the trade agreement would be "a devastating blow to our relationship with all other countries in this hemisphere" and a "litmus test" of the United States' commitment to democracy in Latin America.
Many of the President's fiercest opponents on the trade agreement are members of his own party, and the fight over the pact has been cast in anything but partisan terms.
All of those at the White House today, including Andrew Young, the former ambassador to the United Nations, Carla A. Hills, who was United States trade representative under Mr. Bush, and Paul Samuelson, the Nobel prize-winning economist, criticized the measure's opponents.
Mr. Baker, who noted wryly that he hardly expected to be standing in the East Room of the White House aiding a Democratic President on an Election Day in November, said, "All questions of party should stop at the water's edge."
After saying in recent days that he felt Congressional opposition to the trade agreement was fading, Mr. Clinton hardly seemed to mind apparently going out on a limb by by predicting worldwide turmoil if the agreement is defeated. An aide said that Mr. Clinton was making sure "that everyone who votes on this understands the stakes."
Mr. Kissinger said: "If Nafta fails, the relationship with Mexico will be damaged for the foreseeable future. He added that the decision on the agreement, scheduled for a vote in the House on Nov. 17, was the most important foreign policy vote lawmakers would cast this decade.
The trade pact would create a common trading bloc with Mexico and Canada. Its supporters have said it will significantly spur global growth, but opponents in Congress and elsewhere have said it will cost American jobs.
A reliable vote count in the House is hard to come by. The Democratic whip, Representative David E. Bonior of Michigan, is leading the opposition and has said he needs only 10 votes to insure the pact's defeat.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KISSINGER, HENRY A (DR); CARTER, JIMMY; BAKER, JAMES A 3D; SAMUELSON, PAUL A; IFILL, GWEN BILL CLINTON (92%); JIMMY CARTER (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RICHARD NIXON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



61 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 ELECTIONS: Connecticut;
Mayor Perry of Hartford Loses to an Independent

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 2

 BODY:
Mayor Carrie Saxon Perry was overwhelmingly defeated today in her campaign for a fourth term by Michael P. Peters, a firefighter and Democrat turned independent.
With 26 of 27 precincts reporting, Mr. Peters had 64 percent, or 11,662 votes, to Mayor Perry's 35 percent, or 6,335 votes, according to unofficial results. Two other independents in the race trailed far behind. 
 "We ran on the issues, we took the high road and the people responded," Mr. Peters told cheering supporters. "This was truly a mandate from all parties, from all ethnic groups."
Ms. Perry, 62 years old, took only 35 percent of the vote in a four-way Democratic primary in which Mr. Peters finished second. His strong showing prompted him to abandon the Democratic Party and run as an independent in the general election.
 
Crime and the Economy
 Mr. Peters told 300 supporters at the Polish Home in Hartford that he would work to rebuild the city's ravaged economy and combat street crime.
"During this election, lots of people told me that the city was down and out," he said. "No sir. It was just down, but it was not out. We're coming back, we're coming back strong."
As voters went to the polls, many said crime and the need to revive Hartford's economy were the top issues in the race.
 
Concerns About Gang Warfare
 "Gang warfare is going to be one of the factors," former State Representative Juan Figueroa said as he voted in Frog Hollow, a heavily Puerto Rican neighborhood, where a war between rival street gangs over the summer left at least four people dead. "People are shaky about their physical safety and financial safety," he said.
In Hartford's predominantly white South End, several voters said they supported Mr. Peters because they believed Hartford needed a new leader.
"The financial situation of the city has been deteriorating over the past several years," said Patrick Greiten, 36, a lawyer. "It used to be a nice place to live. Now it's being overridden with crime."
State Democratic Party officials had thought Ms. Perry's campaign was in trouble as Election Day approached and called in reinforcements.
The Rev. Jesse L. Jackson and United States Senator Carol Moseley Braun, Democrat of Illinois, both made campaign stops in Hartford for Ms. Perry. The State Democratic Party chairman, Edward L. Marcus, also brought a group of prominent state Democrats to Hartford to give Mayor Perry a boost last week.
Ms. Perry, a former state legislator and social worker, characterized herself as a healer who could lead Hartford's diverse 130,000 residents into the future.
Although the city has struggled through the recession, which has hit the once-dominant insurance industry especially hard, she insisted her stewardship was building momentum for a turnaround.
Mr. Peters, 44, campaigned on the theme that the mayor had proven to be a poor leader during tough times and had left the city divided. Ms. Perry and her handpicked City Council slate from two years ago feuded during her third term, and the Democratic Party failed to endorse a candidate this year.
Mr. Peters also contended the accomplishments she cited -- the city's effort to lure the New England Patriots from Massachusetts, and to help developers build a concert amphitheater in the North End -- were more a credit to the leadership of Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr., who has played a major role in both projects.
 
Waterbury Mayor Re-elected
 In Waterbury, the Democratic incumbent, Mayor Edward D. Bergin, was re-elected by a slim margin, taking 51 percent of the vote, or 15,184 votes, to 48 percent, or 14,395, for the Republican, State Senator Stephen Somma.
The Waterbury race turned into a contest to see which candidate was the most removed from imprisoned former Mayor Joseph Santopietro, a Republican who was convicted on corruption charges and is now in prison. Mr. Bergin nicknamed Mr. Somma "Sommapietro" because he served as zoning board chairman under Mayor Santopietro.
Mr. Bergin defeated Mr. Santopietro in 1991 after being out of office for six years, and after being acquitted of a charge that he took a bribe during his first tenure as Mayor from 1976 to 1985.
Francis Sullivan, Mr. Bergin's chief administrative aide, also has been linked to the corruption that was rampant in Waterbury in the late 1980's. A witness at Mr. Santopietro's trial last year said he had funneled payoffs to Mr. Sullivan. But he has not been charged with any crime, and has denied any wrongdoing.
Mr. Somma, a three-term senator, said he had never been linked to corruption in the Santopietro administration.
Voters in 158 towns and cities in Connecticut elected mayors, first selectmen and other municipal officers.
In Bridgeport, Democratic Mayor Joseph Ganim appeared to be coasting to a second term.
With 10 of 32 precincts reporting, Mr. Ganim had 79 percent, or 16,981 votes, to Republican Anthony G. Minutolo's 19 percent, or 3,960.
In New Haven, Democrat John DeStefano, a former city administrator, was elected mayor in his second run for office, winning in all wards, according to early returns from De Stefano headquarters.
With 31 of 51 precincts reporting, Mr. DeStefano had 80 percent, or 14,388 votes, to Republican Kevin Skiest's 20 percent, or 3,686 votes, according to unofficial results. Two-term Mayor John Daniels did not seek re-election.
In Stamford, Mayor Stanley Esposito, a Republican, won a second term with 51 percent of the vote. The Democrat,Frank W. Livolsi, had 38 percent, and Bill Cahill, of A Connecticut Party, had 11 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; HARTFORD (CONN); WATERBURY (CONN); HARTFORD (CONN) ; STAMFORD (CONN) UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION RESULTS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); ETHNICITY (77%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); POLITICS (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); GANGS (69%); ETHNIC GROUPS (55%); INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: PERRY, CARRIE SAXON (MAYOR); PETERS, MICHAEL P; BERGIN, EDWARD (MAYOR); SOMMA, STEPHEN (SEN); DESTEFANO, JOHN; SKIEST, KEVIN ; ESPOSITO, STANLEY (MAYOR); LIVOLSI, FRANK W JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



62 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 49 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
A table in Business Day on Friday, with the continuation of a front-page article about third-quarter gross domestic product, carried outdated figures. Readers wishing corrected copies of the table may write the Business Editor, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CORRECTION STORIES; GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP) ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (87%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



63 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Mantra for the Mayor: Deficit, Deficit, Deficit, Deficit

BYLINE: By Richard Ravitch; Richard Ravitch, chairman of the Citizens Budget Commission, was a candidate in the Democratic mayoral primary in 1989.

 BODY:
Congratulations, Mr. Mayor-elect! But now it's time to unseal that envelope labeled "Do Not Open Until After Election Day." In it is this year's revised budget, with a deficit of about half a billion dollars. In other words, you're already in deep fiscal trouble.
It is not unusual for the victor to be rewarded with immediate fiscal woes. In 1974, Abe Beame found that John Lindsay had left him a sizable deficit. In 1978, Ed Koch inherited a billion-dollar deficit and a four-year plan designed largely by others to eliminate it. In 1990, he left City Hall with a $300 million hole to fill. 
 The 1990 budget-balancing approach relied heavily on fiscal legerdemain. It was dominated by financing schemes that led to bigger deficits in the future. Relying on similar schemes this year, like the proposed sale of $215 million in delinquent property-tax notes, will only increase future gaps -- now projected at $1.3 billion in the 1995 fiscal year, $1.8 billion in 1996 and $2 billion in 1997.
Instead of borrowing from future New Yorkers, your administration should attack the current deficit in ways that help make New York fiscally sound and economically competitive. The elements of this overall strategy have been recommended by the Citizens Budget Commission and a growing number of public officials and advocacy groups; of course, not all of them can be accomplished immediately, or solely by the city.
First and most important, the state should assume the current share of welfare and Medicaid financing with broad-based statewide taxes. State mandates now require New York City taxpayers to pay half the non-Federal cost of these programs -- about $3 billion this fiscal year.
An increase in the state personal income tax is the best option. Not only is it a progressive tax, but it is also deductible from Federal taxes, which means that much of the welfare and Medicaid burden would be shifted to Washington, where it belongs.
Second, local property-tax burdens should be redistributed to stimulate job growth and reduce inequities. Right now the effective tax rate for commercial properties is six times the rate for homeowners, and the effective tax rate for apartment buildings is five times the rate for smaller homes -- two huge subsidies for homeowners.
Third, there is enormous potential for improving the productivity of the municipal work force. The Citizens Budget Commission has proposed initiatives in the police, fire, santitation and correction services that would save $450 million a year without cutting service levels. Examples include reducing the number of paid sick days taken by corrections officers, eliminating pay to police and corrections officers for time spent changing clothes, and contracting for garbage collection and recycling.
These three major steps cannot be taken in time to save much money in the 1994 fiscal year, which ends next June 30. But with help from the City Council, you can do some things as soon as you take office.
You can start by eliminating agencies or units of agencies that are not essential, either because they duplicate state (or other city) agencies or because they provide relatively unimportant services. Examples include the Board of Correction, Civil Service Commission, Department of Cultural Affairs, Department of Mental Health, the Off-Track Betting Corporation and WNYC. You might decide that some of these agencies provide essential services, but a comprehensive review would probably identify others that do not.
The number of employees in many other agencies can be reduced without endangering the public. The mayor's office, for instance, does not need 1,400 individuals, or the borough presidents' offices 510.
The Police Department holds large opportunities for savings. Through the Safe Streets, Safe City program, Albany is already paying to improve police protection here, but the city needn't use that money to hire more officers. By putting more civilians in clerical jobs and redeploying officers from low-priority to high-priority posts, the city could put even more cops on the street than the program contemplates, and it could use the money from Albany to help close the budget gap. It would need Albany's permission to do that, but its case would be convincing.
In the Department of Correction, the recent decline in the number of inmates means that fewer officers are needed; when they leave, they should not be replaced.
The work forces of many other agencies could shrink gradually, by replacing only some of the employees who leave. With more than 211,000 employees paid out of city funds and an annual turnover of 8 percent, a careful attrition strategy can mean big savings even in this fiscal year.
Measures beyond these will be required to eliminate the current year's deficit. But the basic points are to avoid gimmicks like those used in early 1990, to take actions that will enable the city to begin the next fiscal year with a smaller built-in deficit and to make the case in Albany that the city is at last putting its own house in order so it can get the help it needs from the state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; WELFARE (US); MEDICAID MAYORS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MEDICAID (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); HOMEOWNERS (88%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (83%); CITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); TAX LAW (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (70%); LABOR FORCE (70%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (68%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (67%); INCOME TAX (63%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (60%); SICK LEAVE (50%); 

PERSON: RAVITCH, RICHARD; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



64 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: New York and Fashion Industry Fit Each Other

 BODY:
To the Editor:
You say New York City's new industrial proposals "promise too much" by channeling public investment into industries "that often seem to have no more claim on taxpayer dollars than the fact that they hire lots of voters" ("Fixing New York's Sick Economy," editorial, Oct. 18). You ask, "Why does a mature industry like fashion need incubation?" 
 The fashion industry may be mature -- it was mature when I started work on Seventh Avenue nearly 50 years ago -- but it is also constantly changing and would die without new companies, new workers, new ideas, new techniques. These thousands of small companies need just the assistance the city proposes: targeted support funneled through public-private partnerships, such as the Garment Industry Development Corporation.
In the apparel industry, the development corporation has a 10-year record of giving small companies access to training, marketing, technology and export assistance. New York City gets a tangible return for its modest investment of $400,000 a year, doubled from the previous administration. The city's proposal to extend the concept to the jewelry industry shows the program's success.
The Fashion Institute of Technology's proposed business incubator and technology center recognizes the need to support struggling new design organizations, essential for New York to remain the fashion capital of the country, and to integrate the talents of new student designers with the real world of the fashion business. The city's contribution of $4.8 million toward a $70 million project for this State University of New York college attended by 12,000 students is an investment in the future.
Yes, we do employ a lot of voters, as well as many new immigrants, who are more likely to pay taxes than to vote. Nearly 100,000 production workers and 80,000 workers in design and wholesale depend on this industry. It's about time the city recognized the contribution of its oldest and newest industry.
 
ELI ELIAS
President, New York Skirt
and Sportswear Association
New York, Oct. 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US) FASHION & APPAREL (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); APPAREL MFG (88%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); TECHNOLOGY MATURITY (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (73%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (73%); JEWELRY (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); EXPORT PROMOTION (67%); 

PERSON: ELIAS, ELI

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



65 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Offer Highest Rate of Low-Skill U.S. Jobs

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
A new Government study of foreign-owned manufacturing companies in the United States has found that they generally provide the same quality jobs as American companies, with one exception: the Japanese employ a higher percentage of low-skilled workers than other companies do.
The study released last week by the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics found that among the 233,000 people who work for Japanese-owned manufacturing companies in this country, nearly 74 percent hold relatively low-skilled production jobs. That compares with 64 percent of the 1.7 million workers at all foreign-owned manufacturing concerns and 65 percent for manufacturing companies over all. 
 "The conventional wisdom is that there is no difference between domestic and foreign multinationals," said Prof. Douglas P. Woodward, an economist at the University of South Carolina who specializes in foreign investment in the United States. "This study shows that there are differences between nationalities in terms of investment behavior in the United States. This is the first time we've had solid evidence that Japanese multinationals do operate differently than other multinationals."
 
'Screwdriver Plants'
 Representative David R. Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin and chairman of the Congressional Joint Economic Committee, said, "If Japanese firms send only lower-skilled, assembly jobs to the United States and keep the higher-skilled and professional positions back in Japan, America is in danger of getting only 'screwdriver plants' that bolt the parts together."
Mr. Obey, who requested the study, said it indicated that "America is not receiving the full labor market benefits that should come with foreign investment" and suggested that the Japanese plants could easily be moved to other countries "because most of their positions require only low skill levels."
The study, based on 1989 data, found that foreign-owned manufacturing companies employed nearly 14 percent of their work forces in professional, paraprofessional and technical jobs, like engineering or accounting, compared with slightly more than 12 percent for all manufacturing companies. But among Japanese companies, only slightly more than 9 percent of workers held such positions.
The study cited Japanese automobile companies as the least likely to provide quality jobs in the United States. It found that nearly 86 percent of their work forces were in low-skilled jobs, compared with about 61 percent for all automobile manufacturers in the United States. Similarly, the share of professional workers in Japanese-owned automobile manufacturing plants was more than 6 percent, compared with 11 percent in foreign-owned companies and 22 percent in all automobile manufacturing plants in America.
According to the latest figures compiled last December by the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis, foreign investment in the United States totaled $2.5 trillion, with $492 billion in direct investment and the rest in stocks, bonds and government securities. Foreign companies now employ 4.4 million people, about half in manufacturing jobs.
 
Seen as Unfair
 Mindy Geller, a spokeswoman for Toyota Motor Manufacturing U.S.A. noted that the Japanese auto maker's complex in Georgetown, Ky., was opened in 1988, only a year before the Labor Department's data were gathered. Thus it was unfair to compare the Toyota operations with those of the Big Three American companies, she said.
"They have more layers of management," Ms. Geller said. "They've been operating much longer," She added that the Georgetown plant employs 4,700 people and is expected to expand to 6,000 in 1995.
Kermit E. Whitfield, a spokesman for the Honda of America Manufacturing Company said that "the low-skilled jobs make up the bulk of our jobs." But he added that the company's 10,200 employees, called "associates," had "a great deal more training than workers in the past."
Although low skilled, they have great responsibility, he said. "It used to be you tightened a bolt 12 hours a day every day, and then you went home," Mr. Whitfield said. "But now, companies like Honda are asking associates for their input, for their thoughts."
Tony Wells, a spokesman for Nissan North America, said the Labor Department study was outdated. "It may have been true four years ago, but it's not a good indication of the overall trend," he said.
He added that of 5,800 workers in the company's manufacturing plant in Smyrna, Tenn., "about 21 percent are professional, paraprofessional and technical," and "about 79 percent are in production," the haven of low-skilled jobs.
Mr. Wells said that the company built a research and development complex in Farmington Hills, Mich., two years ago; another such operation in Stanfield, Ari., in 1988, and a design center in San Diego in 1979. Over all, 500 employees worked on research, development and design, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (92%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (57%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (92%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ENGINEERING (75%); AUTOMAKERS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); BONDS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); 

PERSON: TOLCHIN, MARTIN DAVE OBEY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1993



66 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Long Bond's Yield Rises in Selloff

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond jumped to 6.05 percent yesterday from 6.02 percent on Monday on selling in response to more news that the economy is looking stronger than it did in the first half of the year.
The catalyst for the selloff was the Commerce Department's report that sales of new single-family homes surged 20.8 percent in September. The reported indicated that the drop in long-term mortgage rates may be beginning to have a noticeable impact on the economy. In a separate report, the Government's chief economic forecasting gauge rose five-tenths of 1 percent in September. 
 The heavy selling in the credit market was seen as a sign that the market's long rally, which has sent long-term yields to 25-year lows as recently as Oct. 15, was over. If that is the case, the question now is how high interest rates will go. The range of predictions appears to be in the range of 6.25 to 7 percent.
But there are others who argue that there is a chance for long-term interest rates to move lower.
They acknowledge that the economy is picking up pace. They contend, however, that the pace will slacken at the beginning of next year as the tax increases in President Clinton's deficit-reduction program take hold. And they say that inflation, which is running at an annual rate of 2.7 percent, is still low and that even faster growth at the end of the year is not enough to create dangerous inflationary pressures.
 It is not likely that these arguments will have much of an effect on the bond market at the moment. With yields still at low levels, traders and investors are nervous. They are worried about securing profits for the year, and uncertain about the direction of interest rates. As a result, any news that suggests yields may be moving higher can get them to sell quickly.
In addition, some coming economic reports are not likely to bode well for the market. The Consumer Price Index for October, according to analysts, may rise as much as four-tenths of 1 percent, after no change in September. And retail sales for October may be up more than 1 percent.
"We are at a period where growth is picking up but will not be long lasting," said Richard Berner, chief economist at the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh. "But the growth is real, and the markets will have to live through that."
 
 
All Eyes on Jobs Report
 These factors will increase the focus on the October employment report to be released on Friday. If the jobs report indicates that there was more strength last month than expected, the selloff could gather momentum, with yields moving even higher. According to Bloomberg Business News, the consensus forecast for the increase in nonfarm payroll jobs is around 154,000.
The composition of the employment numbers will also be closely watched by the market. For example, if the data show that manufacturing employment is rising, that will signal that economic strength is also broadening. In the last year, the number of manufacturing jobs has dropped by 255,000.
The pattern of trading yesterday seemed to reflect these uncertain currents. The yield on the 30-year bond, for example, was up to 6.06 percent early in trading before the release of the home sales report. After the report, the yield jumped to as high as 6.13 percent, with the price down more than a full point. But prices came back before lunch, wiping out most of the losses prompted by the home sales data.
In late trading, the price of the 6.25 percent 30-year bond was down 13/32 as the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 6.05 percent, from 6.02 percent Monday. The yield on the 10-year note was up to 5.60 percent from 5.55 percent.
 
 
Impact on Short-Term Rates
 In addition to its impact on long- term interest rates, the concern about stronger economic growth is pushing short-term interest rates higher. This is because stronger growth makes traders and investors ask when the Federal Reserve is likely to push its target for short-term interest rates higher to insure that growth does not produce new inflationary pressures.
There is much debate about when the Fed will raise its short-term target, which has been unchanged, at 3 percent, for more than a year. Some analysts are arguing that the Fed will have to move rates higher by early next year, while others contend that the 3 percent target could hold until next fall.
The yield on the two-year Treasury note also seesawed through the day. It hit a high of 4.19 percent early in the day but ended at 4.14 percent, up from 4.11 percent the day before.
Also weighing on the market is the usual nervousness ahead of the quarterly Treasury auction, which is scheduled for next week. This is the first auction since the Government announced a new borrowing policy in May. No 30-year bonds will be sold; only 3- and 10-year notes will be sold. The Treasury will announce the sizes of the auction today.
The Treasury said yesterday that it was considering auctioning more of the current 5.75 percent 10-year note due in August 2003 rather than selling a new 10-year note.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows the yields of selected Treasury securites, in percent. (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (77%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); RETAIL SALES (71%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN BILL CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1993



67 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Prices for Lumber Advance After Housing Sales Report

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Lumber prices jumped to seven-and-a-half-month highs yesterday after the Commerce Department reported housing sales in September climbed 21 percent, the biggest monthly increase since 1986.
On the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, lumber for November delivery soared $12.70, to $379.70 for a thousand board feet, the highest prices since mid-March, when prices peaked at more than $400 because of timber- cutting restrictions and rebuilding needs following Hurricane Andrew. 
 After a drop this spring and early summer, prices for spruce two-by-four boards have marched gradually higher since July.
 Low mortgage rates, along with rebuilding needs caused by this year's disastrous Midwest flooding and California brush fires, are expected to keep demand strong for lumber.
 
 
'Starting to Kick In'
 "The housing market is really starting to kick in," Linda Lieberman, an analyst at Bear, Stearns & Company, said. "We are truly seeing some better housing numbers."
The Commerce Department said new-home sales in September were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 762,000 units, the biggest monthly increase since 1986, which far surpassed Wall Street economists' forecasts.
On other commodity markets, crude oil flirted below the psychologically significant $17-a-barrel level, but managed to close above it. December crude oil declined 31 cents, to $17.12 a barrel, at the New York Mercantile Exchange.
And silver prices added to Monday's sharp declines after the Xerox Corporation said that it had developed a silver-free film. December silver settled 3.5 cents lower at $4.19 an ounce at the Commodity Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (66%); CME (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); MIDWEST USA (57%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (69%); XEROX CORP (66%); CME GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); MIDWEST USA (57%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS; PRICES REAL ESTATE (91%); FUTURES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); HURRICANES (71%); TROPICAL STORMS (71%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1993



68 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Climbs Against Mark On Stance by Bundesbank

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar hit an 11-week high against the German mark yesterday after the president of Germany's central bank said he was not troubled by the dollar's growing strength.
In late New York trading, the dollar rose to 1.7035 marks, from 1.6938 marks on Monday. But the dollar was mixed against other currencies, slipping to 107.78 Japanese yen from 108.20 yen. 
 Meanwhile, gold prices rose in the United States after falling overseas. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for August delivery gained $1.50, to $363.60 an ounce.
The dollar jumped after Hans Tietmeyer, the president of the Bundesbank, said he was not concerned about the dollar's advance against the mark. He also said Germany had not been selling dollars and buying marks to maintain the exchange rate as some investors had suspected.
"Once that statement came out, the dollar went straight up," said John Nelson, director of foreign exchange at Barclays Bank P.L.C. in New York.
Earlier, the dollar got a lift from two positive numbers on the American economy: a rise of five-tenths of 1 percent in the Government's chief economic forecasting gauge for September and a 20.8 percent jump in sales of new homes for that month. But the dollar fell back before Mr. Tietmeyer's comments.
"Just when the market started losing ground, something came out to sustain the rally," said Angelo Evangelista, a vice president at Bank of Boston.
The dollar has been strengthening on the growing perception that the interest rate gap between the United States and Europe is narrowing, traders said. While long-term United States bond rates have been climbing, promising better returns for dollar-denominated investments, European rates are expected to stay low as countries work their way out of recessions.
In addition, Mr. Nelson said, demand for dollars is strong because of investors' desire to benefit from the booming stock market in the United States.
"The combination of those two has led people to think they'll see a high dollar environment through the end of the year," he said.
The British pound, meanwhile, slipped in New York trading to $1.4735 from $1.4825.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); BCS (NYSE) (84%); BARC (LSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); BARCLAYS PLC (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (91%); GERMAN MARK (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); NEW HOME SALES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); BRITISH POUND (71%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1993



69 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Issuing What May Be Deng's Final Book

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Nov. 3

 BODY:
China's top Communist Party officials appeared to be preparing for the death of their paramount leader this week by issuing what is likely to be the final volume of Deng Xiaoping's private speeches. The book includes blunt comments about his role in ordering the Tiananmen Square crackdown and his fear that democracy in China could ignite civil war.
The appearance of these valedictory writings at a time when the 89-year-old Mr. Deng's health is reported to be failing, together with the saturation coverage they are receiving in official news media, reflects what Western diplomats here say is the insecurity of Mr. Deng's successors over China's political stability after his death. 
 "It's like the Chinese leadership is trying to get imbued with the mantle of Deng Xiaoping," one Western diplomat said, adding that by wrapping themselves in Mr. Deng's words they are seeking to confer greater legitimacy on the next generation of leaders.
Mr. Deng's death will cut the Chinese Communist Party loose from the political anchor he represents as senior leader. A number of Western analysts say they believe that Mr. Deng's death could embolden internal political and economic forces, who are seeking to influence China's future course, to revolt against Communist Party control.
 
Authoritative Rendering
 The issuance of the 119 selections of speeches and recorded talks, most of which have not been previously published, is the most authoritative rendering to date of Mr. Deng's conversations with American presidents, other world leaders and Communist cadres from September 1982 to February 1992, which are the peak years of his power and influence.
In the run-up to the Tiananmen crisis of 1989, the book has Mr. Deng explaining to President Bush during a visit on Feb. 26, 1989, "stability takes precedence over all China's problems."
"If all one billion of us undertake multiparty elections," he said, "we will certainly run into a full scale civil war in the style of the cultural revolution," the decade of political purges and self-examination that only formally ended with the death of Mao Zedong in 1976.
"Civil war doesn't necessarily require guns and artillery," Mr. Deng told Mr. Bush. "Fists and wood bats can also be wielded ferociously."
 
Visit From U.S. Professor
 One of the first Americans to visit Mr. Deng three months after the military crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square was a Columbia University physics professor, T.D. Lee, described as an old aquaintance of the Chinese leader. In a 70-minute conversation, Mr. Deng told Professor Lee that Prime Minister Zhao Ziyang had been "exposed" for "splitting" the Chinese leadership over how to deal with thousands of pro-democracy demonstrators who occupied the center of the capital that spring.
"Fortunately," he said, "I was still there to deal with it and it was not difficult." Referring to the decision to dismiss Mr. Zhao and order the military crackdown in which hundreds if not thousands of students were killed, Mr. Deng added, "of course, I was not the only one who played a role."
"If those people who caused the turmoil won, there would be a civil war," he said. "Of course our side would win the victory if a civil war broke out, but who knows how many people would die. That would really damage the tendon and the bones."
The last and most recent selection includes Mr. Deng's so-called "southern campaign" in early 1992 to fight back opposition to the pace of China's economic expansion by hard-line conservatives.
"Whoever wants to change this will be overthrown," Mr. Deng said of his economic program, adding that the only way to keep the Chinese people from rebelling over their plight was prosperity. "We must snatch the opportunity" to grow fast, he said, even if such growth was chaotic and unstable.
"For such a big country like ours," he said, "it's impossible to be stable all the time if we want to develop faster."
The New China News Agency said Mr. Deng personally guided the selections in the new volume. "All essays were examined and approved by him," the agency said. Like the biography of Mr. Deng published by his daughter, Deng Rong, last summer, this new book is drawing broad reader interest from thousands of Chinese intellectuals still trying to sort out Mr. Deng's strengths and weaknesses as a Chinese leader.
The current Communist Party leadership understands all too well that Mr. Deng's attempt to control his own succession may not survive long after his death. Shortly before his death in 1976, Mao Zedong picked Hua Guofeng as his successor. Mr. Hua, a cautious bureaucrat who now lives in seclusion in Beijing, was not able to withstand the strong political comeback by Mr. Deng, who was purged twice during the Cultural Revolution but survived to lead the bold economic reforms in China.
 
arefully Orchestrated
 The release of the 418-page volume was carefully orchestrated with nationally televised mass meetings of the Communisty Party leadership. There was no mention of the state of Mr. Deng's health, but Western officials say they believe his deterioration has accelerated due to the "synergy" of degenerative illnesses, like Parkinson's disease, diabetes and perhaps a prostate problem.
"It will be a miracle if he lasts beyond the end of the year," a Western official said recently. The most recent photographs of Mr. Deng, taken during his 89th birthday celebration in August, and published by a pro-Beijing newspaper in Hong Kong, show a markedly thinner and more frail Mr. Deng than pictures taken a year ago.
On Tuesday, President Jiang Zemin called a special meeting of the Communist Party Central Committee at the Great Hall of the People and swore that "Deng Xiaoping thought" would guide every aspect of future leadership from foreign policy to managing the economy.
Among those attending the meeting was former President Yang Shangkun, a onetime rival of Mr. Jiang whose removal from key posts this year was seen as Mr. Deng's final step in securing the transition of power. Mr. Yang's presence was an unusual return to the limelight.
 
Li Peng Present
 Prime Minister Li Peng was also present. But among the senior leaders, only National People's Congress Chairman Qiao Shi was afforded television time today to lead a praiseworthy discussion of Mr. Deng's work.
In his final years, Mr. Deng has been obssessed with creating a stable succession that will allow China's rapid economic expansion to continue undisturbed.
In May 1989, Mr. Deng lamented to Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the last leader of the Soviet Union, that "the only thing that can't be brought to pass is the abolition from the system of lifelong positions for leaders.
"This is one of the system's biggest problems," he said.
On June 16 of the same year, according to the new book, Mr. Deng annointed Mr. Jiang, the former Mayor of Shanghai, as his successor. In a "coversation with a few central comrades," Mr. Deng privately set forth his succession rationale.
Just as Mao was the "core" of the first generation leadership in China and Mr. Deng was the core of the second, "entering into the third generation we must have a leadership core," the book quotes Mr. Deng as saying.
 
An Uncharismatic Successor
 "He that will ideologically maintain and protect this core is one whom we now all have agreed to: Jiang Zemin," Mr. Deng said.
Mr. Jiang, whose uncharismatic style has prompted political observers to suggest that he, like Mr. Hua, could easily be eclipsed by a more dynamic personality, simultaneously holds the titles of president, Communist Party secretary and chairman of the Central Military Commission, which controls the People's Liberation Army.
Another prominent American visitor to Mr. Deng upon his retirement was Richard M. Nixon, who as President began the opening to China that eventually resulted in formal American relations with Beijing.
In their Oct. 31 meeting, Mr. Deng attacked the Voice of America for conveying in its shortwave broadcasts a "rivers-of-blood" image of the Tiananmen crackdown. He told Mr. Nixon that students who demonstrated and signed petitions would be forgiven. But from the text released this week, Mr. Deng gave no hint that China would later arrest and put on trial dozens of pro-democracy students who were branded as ring leaders or "black hands" behind the uprising.
Mr. Deng asked Mr. Nixon to tell President Bush that "America should take the initiative" in lifting sanctions imposed after the crackdown, many of which still apply.
"If you want China to beg, it cannot be arranged," Mr. Deng told Mr. Nixon. "Even if extended 100 years, the Chinese people will not beg for the lifting of sanctions."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Communist Party officials in China are issuing what may be the final volume of Deng Xiaoping's private speeches, causing speculation that the party is preparing for the leader's death. Mr. Deng, reportedly in poor health, and his daughter Deng Rong met last year with President Jiang Zemin, left. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (74%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; TIANANMEN SQUARE (BEIJING) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CIVIL WAR (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); ELECTIONS (69%); 

PERSON: DENG XIAOPING; TYLER, PATRICK E GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



70 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 ELECTIONS: An Electorate in Revolt;
Voting Nationwide Was Less an Embrace Of G.O.P. Than a Warning to Incumbents

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

 BODY:
The three major Republican victories on Tuesday were less a partisan triumph than a warning that the revolt against established politicians that helped send President Clinton to the White House may imperil incumbents next year and ultimately threaten Mr. Clinton himself.
The President said as much yesterday as he assessed the election of Republicans as Governors in Virginia and New Jersey and as Mayor of New York City. "The American people want change and they want results," he said, echoing his message of the 1992 campaign, when he urged voters to choose him over President George Bush. 
 The Republicans needed little spin after the returns were counted. They crowed that it could not have been mere happenstance that the party's candidates, who ran under the banner of change, won all six high-profile races since Mr. Clinton was elected. Republicans had already this year won United States Senate seats from Georgia and Texas and taken over the mayor's office in Los Angeles.
"It's a big, big defeat for the White House," said Senator Bob Dole, the minority leader.
It would be a stretch to portray the Republican victories in the six contests as a repudiation of Mr. Clinton, even though he and many of his top aides campaigned hard for Mayor David N. Dinkins in New York and Gov. Jim Florio in New Jersey. But the latest defeats cannot help but weaken the President's hand with Congress as he tries to persuade reluctant Democrats to approve the North American Free Trade Agreement later this month and to support his plan to revamp the country's health care system.
"They would have been an easier sell had there been victories in New York and New Jersey," said Stanley Greenberg, Mr. Clinton's pollster.
 
A Florio-Clinton Parallel
 The loss by Mr. Florio was particularly unnerving to White House officials. Confident that the Governor would win re-election despite a big tax increase early in his term, the officials had compared his situation to the President's. They said a Florio victory would prove that a Governor -- or a President -- could raise taxes shortly after taking office and not be punished by the voters.
Instead, the lesson from Tuesday seems to be that a politician had better not raise taxes without showing results. That might be difficult for Mr. Clinton, whose budget plan called for higher taxes, most notably on gasoline. And the likely taxes to pay for his health care proposal would not reap benefits until years after he leaves office. Republicans maintained a united front in opposing Mr. Clinton's budget plan and its tax increases, and so are positioned to contest next year's elections as the party that opposes tax increases of any kind.
"The burden of proof used to be on the challenger; today, it's almost on the incumbent," said Gov. Evan Bayh of Indiana, who as the incoming chairman of the Democratic Governors Association will spend much of his time next year defending incumbents. "You've got to show you can make a difference in tangible terms that people can relate to in their daily lives."
But in these times of economic peril, it is not easy for politicians to deliver. So it was no surprise that Mark Mellman, a Democratic strategist, said that some of his clients who are running for re-election next year were in a panic yesterday.
"An incumbent officeholder called me and said: 'Are we toast? Can we win? What do we do now?' " he said.
Indeed, if voters are frightened these days about losing their jobs and being robbed in their own neighborhoods, politicians are frightened that the electorate is not in a forgiving mood.
In New York, Mayor Dinkins repeatedly mentioned declining crime rates in the city. But the voters never seemed satisfied, and opted for Rudolph W. Giuliani, a former Federal prosecutor who promised to make the city safer.
That New York and Los Angeles elected Republican mayors this year suggests an erosion in the confidence of voters accustomed to choosing Democrats to run their cities.
As much as Mr. Florio sought to shift the attention to crime and welfare, voters seemed unable to forget that he had raised taxes by $2.8 billion and that the state's economy was still sluggish.
"The signal we have from these elections is that we're going to have to be careful about raising taxes of any kind," said Leon E. Panetta, who as Mr. Clinton's budget director is no stranger to raising taxes.
And while no incumbent ran for Governor of Virginia, the losing Democrat, Mary Sue Terry, could also be viewed as a victim of the anti-incumbent furor. Her opponent, George F. Allen, associated her with 12 years of Democratic rule and the bitter rivalry between the state's two leading Democrats, Gov. L. Douglas Wilder and Senator Charles S. Robb.
The Republicans, of course, did their best to promote their victories as part of a trend. But except for Mr. Allen's landslide in Virginia, the margins of victory for Mrs. Whitman and Mr. Giuliani were so narrow that they more aptly demonstrated that the electorate that brought Ross Perot to prominence in last year's Presidential contest was still restive. It was no accident that exit polls indicated that 73 percent of the New Jersey voters who backed Mr. Perot last year voted for Mrs. Whitman.
In perhaps the purest signal of impatience with the status quo, voters in New York City and Maine approved term limits for their elected officials; in New Jersey, voters approved a measure that would give themselves authority to recall elected officials. All three passed overwhelmingly.
"People are not thrilled by incumbents," said David Wilhelm, chairman of the Democratic National Committee. "And they're uncertain of challengers. The major lesson is that voters want change so we need to provide it."
Of course, the Democrats would not be talking about lessons they learned, and the Republicans would not be talking about mandates, had the voting been a bit different on Tuesday. In New Jersey, for example, fewer than 31,000 voters provided the margin of victory for Mrs. Whitman.
"There was a roll of the dice Tuesday," said Mr. Greenberg, the pollster, "that didn't come up well for the President."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; VOTER BEHAVIOR POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); TAX INCREASES (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (72%); BUDGETS (66%); APPROVALS (64%); HEALTH CARE (63%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



71 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: If Trade Pact Fails, Doubt On Japan Role in Mexico

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Contradicting what has become a central argument for the North American Free Trade Agreement, businessmen, diplomats and trade experts say Japan and Europe are unlikely to flood Mexico with new investment and trade if the pact is not approved.
With the prospect for Congressional approval of the North American Free Trade Agreement in doubt, both President Clinton and President Carlos Salinas de Gortari have warned that Japan and other American rivals would seize whatever economic opportunities the United States might pass up in Mexico. 
 Trade experts and businessmen here, however, say Mexico is likely to prove more attractive to many potential Asian and European investors with the trade accord than without it.
Moreover, given Mexico's economic difficulties and its dependence on American capital and commerce, many economists and Government officials also say it simply could not afford to turn away from the United States, even if the trade pact fails.
 
'Afraid of Japan'
 "This has touched a chord in the United States because people are afraid of Japan, but it is not an alternative as such," said a senior Mexican official who supports the accord and spoke on the condition that he not be identified. "Japan will be interested in Mexico. The same goes for Europe. But it would be naive to think that Japan is poised to jump in."
In Tokyo, Japanese officials and business people echoed the view that Mexico is unlikely to loom any larger in their thinking without the North American accord. Total Japanese investment in Mexico last year, they noted, was $60 million, roughly what Japan invested in Bangladesh and barely 3 percent of what the United States invested in Mexico over the same period.
"I don't think that a discussion about a free trade agreement between Japan and Mexico has ever taken place here," said Masakazu Toyoda, the director of the Americas division of Japan's Ministry for International Trade and Industry, known as MITI. "It is an interesting idea, but I don't think it works."
Other Japanese officials expressed irritation or amusement that Mr. Clinton seemed to be invoking Japan to scare Americans. "He's joking, right?" a senior Government politician asked. "Japan and Mexico? Does that sound like a big alliance?"
 
Warning to Congress
 On Monday Mr. Clinton warned that if American legislators vote later this month to reject Nafta, as the accord is known, the Japanese would swarm over Mexico "like flies on a June bug."
Mexican officials have indeed quickened their efforts to find new economic partnerships in Europe, Asia and Latin America in case the agreement is killed. But similar efforts in recent years have been less than successful.
Since taking office in December 1988, Mr. Salinas has courted Asian investment and trade. He has encountered skepticism, however, much of it tied to memories of the huge losses of Japanese banks during Mexico's foreign debt crisis of the 1980's.
In fact, Mexican officials recall that Mr. Salinas turned to the idea of the pact, after initially rejecting it, in part because of difficulties in getting European and Asian investors to come into Mexico.
Some Japanese officials have spoken positively of the trade deal, suggesting that by improving the investment climate in Mexico it would work to the benefit of Japanese investors who might want to use Mexico and Canada as a base for producing products to be exported to the United States.
 
Other Partners Sought
 Throughout its trade talks with Canada and the United States, Mexico has continued to work to diversify the foreign partners for its investment and trade.
Until it became clear this summer that the accord was in serious trouble in the American Congress, however, Mexican officials said they saw little reason to risk antagonizing the United States by wooing America's economic competitors more aggressively.
Last year, for example, Mexican trade with European Community nations was $10.3 billion, accounting for 11.5 percent of Mexico's imports and 7.2 percent of its exports, according to Mexican figures.
Mexico's trade with Japan amounted to $3.2 billion, or less than 5 percent of the national total. But with a drop in the value of Mexico's oil sales, its trade deficit with Japan skyrocketed from $542 million in 1991 to $2.2 billion last year.
By comparison, Mexico's imports from the United States alone were $24.6 billion, or 62.8 percent of the country's purchases from abroad, while the United States accounted for 68 percent of Mexican exports, or $18.7 billion.
 
Lifting of Curbs Seen
 If the deal is rejected, senior Mexican officials say they will probably revise the country's foreign investment law in order to extend to all foreign investors some of the benefits that would go only to Americans and Canadians under the North American accord.
They said restrictions on foreign participation in banking, insurance and other financial services were almost certain to be loosened. Mexico is also contemplating signing investment-protection agreements with European countries in order to guarantee their businessmen special terms, they said.
Mexico's Trade Secretary, Jaime Serra Puche, said in an interview, "It is conceivable that in the absence of Nafta, we would go ahead and negotiate trade agreements with the European Community and Japan."
Mexican officials acknowledged that a tariff-reduction agreement with European Community nations would be difficult to reach because it would have to be negotiated with the community as a whole. They predicted that such a deal might be more possible with Japan, but a parade of Japanese officials contradicted them.
 
Criticism From Abroad
 Like some Caribbean and Central American nations, smaller Asian countries have opposed the North American agreement out of concern that it might divert investment away from them. The central criticism that European and Japanese officials have made of the pact, however, is that it would discriminate against businesses outside North America by setting high "rules of origin."
As tariff barriers are gradually eliminated among the United States, Canada and Mexico, most goods would only be able to move freely through the zone if they were made mostly from North American materials. In two areas where Asian manufacturers might be especially anxious to invest, the automotive and textile industries, this so-called content requirement is even stiffer.
In a speech to Mexican businessmen late last month, a former Japanese Goverment trade official for North America, Yasuo Tanabe, complained that the trade accord showed evidence of "sneaking protectionism." But in a later interview with the Mexican newspaper El Financiero, Mr. Tanabe added that independently of the pact, "There's no Mexican boom among Japanese business society."
Trade experts and businessmen in Mexico gave a similar view: the fact that some non-American companies might be dissuaded from investing in Mexico with the accord in place does not mean those companies will invest without it.
For many larger Japanese and European firms, cheap labor would not now compensate for the other costs of moving manufacturing operations to Mexico. But several businessmen said the trade accord might improve that equation considerably for many of those companies, particularly big multinationals that have established North American regional operations. With the pact, they said Mexico could offer duty-free entrance into Canada and the United States, greater economic stability, and expected improvements in areas like transportation and communications.
"If the Japanese trading companies had identified any opportunities in Mexico, they would be pursuing them now," said Gabriel Szekely, a professor of international relations at the University of California at San Diego who is a leading expert on Mexico's economic relations with Asia.
"Mexico will become truly important to the Japanese and the Asians to the extent that it finally joins the North American economy," Dr. Szekely added. "Without Nafta, that won't happen."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NAF (FRA) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (62%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); EUROPE (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); ASIA (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (58%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: NAFTA AS (62%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; UNITED STATES; CANADA; EUROPE MEXICO (99%); JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); EUROPE (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); ASIA (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (58%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; FORECASTS; TREATIES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (96%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



72 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 ELECTIONS: Propositions;
Ballot Measures on Term Limits and Crime Draw Wide Support

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Voters across the country continued to show strong support for term limits, a tougher than ever stand on crime and opposition to gay rights, while indicating they would pay higher taxes if the revenue was used for health care or education.
Only a handful of significant ballot measures were on state electoral plates in Tuesday's matchups, but the results showed an electorate that was generally unwilling to experiment with new ideas. 
 The exception is crime. Here in Washington state, 76 percent of the voters approved a referendum called "Three Strikes, You're Out," which would mandate life sentences without chance of parole for people convicted of three consecutive felony offenses. It would not apply to juveniles.
The measure, which had strong support across party lines and in rural as well as urban areas, is likely to show up on the ballots of other states.
 
'Blueprint for Other States'
 "This crime initiative is the first of its kind, and it will serve as a blueprint for other states," said Peter Wehner, policy director of Empower America, a conservative advocacy group based in Washington, D.C.
School vouchers, another major initiative supported by conservatives, failed by a huge margin in California. Proposition 174, which would have provided $2,600 in vouchers for each of the state's 5.8 million schoolchildren, was rejected by 70 percent of California's voters. School voucher plans have now been voted down in all three states where they have been tried. The others are Colarado and Oregon.
California's political establishment, including Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, joined teachers' unions and President Clinton in opposing school vouchers. Proponents said the measure suffered from a lack of campaign money and was too broadly written.
Here's a look at how the other issues fared on Tuesday:
 
Taxes
 The tax revolt, which started nearly 15 years ago in California, seemed to run out of steam on Tuesday. Voters in California, suffering from the state's worst economic slump in a generation, nonetheless approved by 58 percent to 42 percent a half-cent rise in the sales tax. The increase, passed this year by the Legislature but needing voter approval to become permanent, would be used for increased police protection.
In Washington state, an attempt to roll back nearly a $1 billion in new taxes was defeated by a margin of about 12 percent. The measure, Initiative 602, holds some lessons for Mr. Clinton, as he has said he will seek higher taxes on tobacco products to pay for health care.
Washington passed a universal health care plan this year that is very similar to the one proposed by the President. It raises taxes on tobacco and alcohol to help pay for the program. In this case, voters chose the higher taxes.
But a companion measure, Initiative 601, which limits the growth of state government to the rate of inflation and population increase, was winning approval by a margin of less than 1 percent. The measure would require voter approval for any new state taxes in the next 18 months; beyond that, new taxes would have to be approved by a two-thirds majority in the Legislature.
"The latest trend in tax revolt, voter approval for new taxes, apparently has continued," said David Keating, executive vice president for the National Taxpayers Union in Washington, D.C.
 
Gay Rights
 For those seeking legal protection from discrimination against homosexuals, Tuesday was the latest in a series of defeats, as voters in Cincinnati, Lewiston, Me., and Portsmouth, N.H., rejected gay rights.
By 62 percent to 38 percent, Cincinnati voters repealed a 1992 ordinance protecting homosexuals from discrimination. A similar law was repealed by a margin of more than 2 to 1 in Lewiston, and a nonbinding vote on gay rights in Portsmouth failed by a 3-to-2 margin.
The defeats come as a dozen states are considering ballot measures for next year that would bar legal protection for homosexuals. The measures are modeled after an initiative approved by Colorado voters last year, and is now tied up in a court challenge. On Monday, the Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal by the State of Colorado from a ruling requiring it to prove that the gay rights measure serves a "compelling state interest."
Gay rights supporters are taking a new look at their strategy.
"The initiatives show that we've got a lot of work to do," said Gregory King, a spokesman for the Human Rights Campaign Fund, based in Washington, D.C. "It's clear that our message is not moving the public."
 
Term Limits
 The national campaign to limit the terms of elected officials continues to roll, and is gaining momentum. Already, 16 states have approved term limits. The one state where it had lost -- Washington -- voted in favor of term limits last year when a less severe measure was presented to voters.
On Tuesday, voters in New York City and Maine joined the bandwagon. The Maine proposal, limiting the terms of state officeholders, passed by a 2-to-1 margin. Voters in New York City approved, by a roughly 3-to-2 margin, a referendum to limit the terms of the mayor, comptroller, public advocate, borough presidents and City Council members.
Term limits for members of Congress are clouded by a legal challenge. Opponents, led by the Speaker of the House, Thomas S. Foley of Washington, have filed suit here to overturn last year's voter mandate. The suit contends that limiting the terms of Federal officeholders is unconstitutional. A trial is expected next year.
In another referendum, voters in Houston defeated a proposal to bring zoning to that city.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; HOMOSEXUALITY; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; TAXATION; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); TERM LIMITS (POLITICAL OFFICE); EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS REFERENDUMS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); BALLOTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TERM LIMITS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (87%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); SENTENCING (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PAROLE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); SALES TAX (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CHILDREN (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); FELONIES (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TEACHER UNIONS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); INFLATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (60%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



73 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 ELECTIONS: Mayoral Elections;
Results Hint at Secondary Role for Race

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Six weeks after President Clinton, campaigning in New York, described some opponents of Mayor David N. Dinkins as unwilling to vote for "people who are different than we are," a notable feature of mayoral elections around the country was how secondary a role race and ethnicity played.
In Minneapolis, which is 78 percent white, Sharon Sayles Belton became the city's first black mayor by outpolling a white man, Jon Derus, who ran a law-and-order campaign. In Seattle, Norman Rice, who four years ago became the first black mayor in a city that is 75 percent white, easily defeated a white opponent who focused on crime. 
 In Boston, which has twice as many Irish-Americans as Italian-Americans, Thomas M. Menino became the city's first Italian-American mayor, defeating James T. Brett, whose election would have continued 63 years of Irish-American mayors. In Miami, where Hispanic voters far outnumber non-Hispanic ones, former Mayor Steve Clark led Miriam Alonso, a city commissioner. The two will meet in a Nov. 9 runoff.
In a race between two black candidates in Detroit, which is at least 75 percent black, Dennis Archer defeated Sharon McPhail despite Ms. McPhail's efforts to paint herself as the champion of Detroit's blacks and Mr. Archer as a tool of white suburbanites.
 
Change, Not Race
 No one is suggesting that race is no longer a major factor in American politics. In the bitter election in New York, voters cast ballots along racial lines, as Rudolph W. Giuliani narrowly defeated Mr. Dinkins. But the elections Tuesday may have been a signal that many urban voters want change and progress more than they want a candidate who looks like they do.
"I think the new pragmatism astride cities has made voters much more focused on the bottom line and much less on issues of race or other groupings," said David Axelrod, a Chicago political consultant who worked for Mr. Archer in Detroit. "I think people desperately want leaders who will make cities work, and they will take them in whatever shapes, sizes and colors they come in."
The Tuesday elections also brought a new generation to power, with longtime mayors like Maynard Jackson of Atlanta, Coleman A. Young of Detroit, Xavier Suarez of Miami, Raymond L. Flynn of Boston, Sophie Masloff of Pittsburgh and Donald Fraser of Minneapolis stepping down this year.
Two incumbents, Michael R. White of Cleveland and Bob Lanier of Houston, faced only token opposition and were overwhelmingly returned to office.
In Atlanta, Councilman Bill Campbell, who gained 49 percent of the vote Tuesday, faces Michael Lomax, former chairman of the Fulton County Commission, in a Nov. 23 runoff.
 
Winning Moderates
 Tuesday's winners, both newcomers and incumbents, tended to be political moderates with strong multiracial support.
One of the contests where race figured to play a role was in Minneapolis, where Ms. Sayles Belton, president of the Minneapolis City Council, was put on the defensive by Mr. Derus's aggressive campaign centered on crime. But she put together a mostly liberal coalition to win in a city with a long history of generally liberal politics, though a relatively small black political presence.
"A lot of people said it couldn't be done," Ms. Sayles Belton said after her victory Tuesday night. "A lot of people said Minneapolis wasn't ready."
The victor most likely to gain national attention may be Mr. Archer of Detroit, a former Michigan Supreme Court Justice, who was elected Tuesday to head the nation's seventh largest city and the center of the sixth largest metropolitan area.
His predecessor, Mr. Young, who became the city's first black mayor 20 years ago, symbolized a first generation of black politicians whose tactics echoed those of the civil rights era. He endorsed Ms. McPhail, who adopted his practice of trying to pit black voters against white suburbanites and business interests.
But Bob Kahle, polling director at the Center for Urban Studies at Wayne State University, said the economic and social decline in Detroit made Mr. Young's mantle a dubious inheritance in this year's election.
"The level of racial animosity between the suburbs and the city has grown tiresome for many people," he said. "People want a focus on economic issues, not the racial divide. Archer showed the divide-and-conquer strategy isn't going to work. You have to have a big-tent strategy. For us in Detroit, that's news."
Mr. Archer, who spent his first morning after being elected, meeting with Gov. John Engler, a Republican, called today for cooperation with the city's suburbs and business interests.
"What used to be used as a race card in an effort to perpetuate business as usual has received a long-term burial," he said.
Crime was a prime issue in almost all the elections. But, for the most part, the candidates who made the biggest claims for urban wars on crime were unsuccessful.
In Seattle, where Mr. Rice won by a 2-to-1 margin, his opponent, David Stern, hit hard and often on crime, promising curfews to keep criminals off the streets and the hiring of 200 additional police officers. Mr. Rice talked about crime too, but he said the public is wary of grandiose claims for quick fixes.
"I think people understand that there aren't simplistic answers to these questions," he said.
Mr. Dinkins was not the only black candidate to lose to a white one. In Hartford, a white firefighter, Michael Peters, defeated Mayor Carrie Saxon Perry, denying a fourth term to the first black woman to be elected mayor of a large American city.
 
Where Race Mattered
 It is only necessary to look at the New York mayoral contest, where exit polls showed that Mr. Giuliani got 77 percent of the white vote and Mr. Dinkins got 95 of the black vote, to realize how much of a factor race can be.
No one expects such tendencies to disappear anytime soon. But, particularly in mayoral races, where voters have a gut sense of whether things are going well or not, economic and social concerns often accounted for more than racial ones this year, experts said.
"In municipal elections, voters feel they can make a judgment on whether someone is getting the job done: are the streets paved or not; are there enough police on the street or not," said Alan Secrest, a pollster who worked for Mr. Campbell in Atlanta. "As a result they're able to distinguish between candidates on grounds that go beyond race or gender or candidates who are 'like them.' "
He added: "In some places like Houston and Seattle, voters felt the record showed the incumbent was doing a pretty good job and they won. The same dynamic of voters assessing performance and voting accordingly played out in New York, and Dinkins came up short."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Four New Faces"
 
DETROIT: Dennis Archer, 51, Democrat, first black Supreme Court justice in Michigan, called for new cooperation between mostly black city and mostly white suburbs, won 57 percent of vote.
 
MINNEAPOLIS: Sharon Sayles Belton, 42, Democrat, served on City Council for 10 years, first woman and first black to lead this predominantly white city, headed liberal coalition, won 58 percent of vote.
 
PITTSBURGH: Thomas J. Murphy, 48, Democrat, state representative for 14 years, emphasized plan to reorganize city government and make it "customer friendly," won 66 percent of vote.
 
BOSTON: Thomas M. Menino, 50, Democrat, Acting Mayor and former City Council president, focused on education and crime, won 64 percent of the vote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; BOSTON (MASS); MINNEAPOLIS (MINN); DETROIT (MICH) UNITED STATES (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; BLACKS (IN US); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) MAYORS (94%); ELECTIONS (93%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ETHNICITY (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (59%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W BILL CLINTON (90%); DAVID AXELROD (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



74 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
However the N.F.L. handles expansion, challenges are likely.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
Oct. 22. A jury in Boston decides that the National Football League had violated the antitrust laws by restricting William Sullivan's sale of a minority interest in the New England Patriots.
Oct. 27. N.F.L. owners postpone the award of a new franchise to one of four cities still in the running. 
 TO most people, the two events might seem unrelated. Frederick Furth, counsel to Mr. Sullivan and an antitrust lawyer with a mission, said he thinks otherwise. "The N.F.L. is stalling to see whether the four cities bring up the antitrust question," said Mr. Furth, who makes no secret of his desire to sue the league on behalf of the three suitors who are sure to be spurned.
It is possible that Mr. Furth is making much of little. What is clear, though, is that Congress or the courts might soon be forced to decide how special the special business of sports really is -- and economists will be happy to tell them.
Some, notably Roger Noll of Stanford University, said they think professional teams are much like other private enterprises, and thus their inclination to collude should be tightly policed. Others, notably George Daly, the dean of the New York University Stern School of Business, said they think sports leagues are unique cooperatives that need broad exemption from the antitrust laws to serve the public interest.
Mr. Sullivan, the owner of the New England Patriots, was barred in 1987 by the other N.F.L. owners from selling $40 million of public shares in his team. He eventually sold the whole team on far less favorable terms. And last month, a jury awarded him $114 million for his troubles.
The Sullivan antitrust case has no direct bearing on the league expansion issue. But the willingness of the jury to second-guess the motives of the league suggest that the public is no longer prepared to let the N.F.L. decide what is best for professional football.
The N.F.L. had long planned to add two teams, the first expansion since 1976. With the choice of Charlotte, N.C., last week, four cities (St. Louis, Jacksonville, Fla., Baltimore and Memphis) remain in the wings. And that means three cities, each with a sponsor willing to pay $150 million for a franchise, will end up unhappy.
The deliberate pace of N.F.L. expansion makes Jim Quirk, the co-author of "Paydirt: The Business of Professional Team Sports" (Princeton University Press) unhappy, too. "These are monopoly restrictions," he said flatly -- restrictions intended to maximize profits for the group.
About 60 percent of the N.F.L.'s revenues come from national television rights, with the money ($900 million this year) evenly divided among the 28 clubs. Adding franchises, it is generally acknowledged, would not add much to the pot. Hence it would only serve the current owners' interests to add teams if the franchise fee fully compensated them for lost national television revenue.
Those seeking evidence of pent-up demand for franchises, he argues, need only look to the sky-high price of tickets for N.F.L. games and the sweetheart stadium deals offered by football-mad cities. Hartford, for example, is dangling a $250 million stadium to lure the Patriots.
If 28 -- or 30 -- franchises are too few, how many would be just right? Mr. Noll said he would "let the market decide." The N.F.L might, for example, be allowed to set minimum standards for the size of stadiums, the depth of franchise owners' pockets and their managerial capacity. The league would not, however, be permitted to charge franchise fees that offset the dilution of television revenues.
The catch, said Gerald Scully, an economist at the University of Texas at Dallas and the author of "The Business of Major League Baseball (University of Chicago Press), is quality. "Expansion means weaker clubs," he said, because there would be fewer great players to go around.
Joe Browne, the N.F.L.'s vice president for communications, said: "With 30 teams, football will have more franchises than any other sport." But Mr. Noll said the quality issue is based on a misunderstanding. Competitive balance counts more than average player quality, he said, and there are enough good athletes for more teams.
The idea of micro-managing competition within sports leagues frustrates Mr. Daly of New York University, who offers a very different perspective on the antitrust issue. Sports leagues are dependent on cooperation among teams, he said, "and we just haven't done much thinking about the economics of creating such products."
One could argue that "the N.F.L. is a form of entertainment competing with other television programming," Mr. Daly said. By this logic, he suggests, it makes about as much economic sense to tell the N.F.L. where to play or how often as it does to tell Steve Bochco who should star in the next episode of "L.A. Law."
If you are puzzled, wait; it gets worse.
"The thing a league fears most," Mr. Scully said, "is the rise of another league." Thus while the reluctance of the N.F.L. to expand might be based on a wish to maximize monopoly profits, expansion might prove anticompetitive if it deters the formation of a new league or undermines the viability of a fledging effort.
In fact, Mr. Quirk said the N.F.L. had been sued on this issue. In 1962, the American Football League failed to convince a Federal appellate court judge (the soon-to-be Supreme Court-nominee Clement Haynesworth) that the N.F.L.'s expansion into Dallas and Minnesota constituted predatory behavior under the antitrust laws.
All this suggests that however the National Football League handles the expansion question, it is likely to be challenged in court. And economists, it seems, will be of only modest help in deciding where the public's interest lies.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (71%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL) PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (84%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL) NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (84%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (71%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); VERDICTS (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); LAWYERS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER MARIE-GEORGE BUFFET (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



75 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Russia Warned Over Libya By U.S., Britain and France

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 3

 BODY:
The United States, Britain and France have warned President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia that relations between their countries will suffer if Moscow continues to block plans for new sanctions against Libya over its refusal to extradite two men accused in the bombing of a Pan American World Airways jet over Scotland five years ago.
President Clinton and Prime Ministers John Major of Britain and Edouard Balladur of France sent separate messages to Mr. Yeltsin this week conveying this warning and saying that public opinion in their countries demands additional measures against Libya over the Pan Am bombing, in which 271 people were killed, diplomats here say. 
 The American message alludes to the possibility that Congressional opinion could turn against the emerging Russian democracy if Mr. Yeltsin blocks the new sanctions, prejudicing his chances of receiving further financial aid and export outlets in the United States.
Originally, the three allies planned to ask the Security Council to vote for the new sanctions if Libya did not hand over the suspects for trial by Oct. 1 and promise to cooperate with a French investigation into the bombing of a French airliner over Niger in 1989.
 
Threat of a Veto
 But the vote at the United Nations was first postponed at the request of Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who said he wanted more time to try to persuade Libya's leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, to hand over the men. Then, after that mediation effort failed, Russia threatened to use its Security Council veto to block the new sanctions unless America and its allies agreed to sequester Libyan overseas assets and use them to pay a $4 billion arms debt Moscow is owed by Libya.
The Council has already cut all commercial air links with Libya. But the Russians were apparently angered that the proposed new embargo, which mainly affects supplies of oil refining and pipeline equipment, had been carefully crafted to protect valuable oil and gas drilling contracts European companies have won in Libya while ignoring the debt Libya owes Moscow.
 
Second Clash Possible
 When the United States and its allies replied that they could not give Russia precedence over Libya's other foreign creditors, Moscow asked the Western allies for a $4 billion interest-free loan instead.
The United States and its allies now plan to wait until the end of this week or early next week before bringing the new sanctions resolution to a vote in the Security Council.
Meanwhile, the Clinton Administration faces another clash with Russia in the Security Council over the embargo against Yugoslavia. The United States is expected to veto a request by Russia on Thursday to relax trade sanctions so it can sell natural gas to the Yugoslavian federation of Serbia and Montenegro for heating schools, homes and hospitals this winter.
In a letter to the committee overseeing the sanctions, Russia echoed the recent warnings of senior United Nations officials about the serious difficulties the embargo is creating in much of Yugoslavia.
Last month Under Secretary-General Jan Eliasson, the United Nations aid coordinator, wrote to Mr. Boutros-Ghali asking him to alert the five permanent Security Council members -- the United States, Britain, France, China and Russia -- to the growing hardship the embargo is causing.
"The application of sanctions, in certain instances, has devastating consequences on innocent civilian populations and particularly on vulnerable groups," Mr. Eliasson wrote. "What is required is appropriate action both within the United Nations system as well as in the Security Council to insure sanctions do not cause deprivation and suffering."
 
Shortage of Medicine
 In August the head of the World Health Organization, Hiroshi Nakajima, also wrote to the Security Council, telling of a severe shortage of medicine in Yugoslavia and asking the Council to take a fresh look at how sanctions are applied.
Administration officials, however, say they will block the proposed Russian gas sale in order to increase pressure on Belgrade to force the Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Croatia to make peace.
The White House officials say most of the 132 million cubic meters of gas Russia wants to supply to Serbia by pipeline each month this winter is destined for private homes rather than hospitals or schools.
And they point out that the Bosnian Serbs besieging Sarajevo, the Bosnia capital, have still not agreed to open a pipeline carrying Hungarian natural gas into the city to provide the inhabitants with central heating.
The Serbs have also not helped their case with American officials by blocking United Nations war crimes investigators and Dutch Army engineers from excavating a mass grave near the Serb-controlled Croatian town of Vukovar. The town is believed to contain the remains of some 200 Croatian civilians abducted from Vukovar hospital two years ago and executed by Yugoslav Army and Serbian paramilitary units.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PN (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (74%); 

COUNTRY: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SCOTLAND (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); NIGER (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (74%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBYA; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE ; FRANCE; RUSSIA LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SCOTLAND (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); NIGER (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS ; EXTRADITION EXTRADITION (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VETO (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); TRENDS (73%); NATURAL GAS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (62%); OIL EXTRACTION (62%); 

PERSON: ;YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



76 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Prudential Securities' lawyers are working aggressively to limit the firm's liability in a fraud, brokerage executives say, despite public statements that it hopes to make amends to investors who lost millions in limited partnerships. [Page D1.]
I.B.M. management's confidence about the company's direction is not shared by all analysts. [D1.] 
 Texaco was sued for $1 billion by Ecuadorean Indians seeking restitution for damage to their forests. [D4.]
Banc One will acquire Liberty National Bancorp of Louisville, Ky., in a stock swap valued at $842 million. [D4.]
Brooks Brothers sales rose 10 percent in the first half of the year, and operating profits rose 18 percent. [D4.]
Northern Telecom joined I.B.M. and MCI in developing technology to improve the performance of the national data highway. [D4.]
Datapoint named a 35-year veteran of the computer industry as its president and chief operating officer. [D4.]
Prudential Insurance will sell its Centermark shopping malls for $1 billion rather than package them into a REIT. [D5.]
Bristol-Myers Squibb agreed to sell the appliance division of its Clairol subsidiary to Remington Products. [D6.]
QVC Network and BellSouth were said to be discussing an investment by BellSouth in QVC's bid for Paramount Communications. [D11.]
 
The Economy
With seven Nobel prizes in economics, the University of Chicago has had an extraordinary run. But many say Chicago's clutch of prizes is a measure of past, not present, influence. [D1.]
Business conditions improved at a "slow to moderate" clip in most areas in September and October, the Fed reported. [D2.]
The auto industry recovery continued, with sales of vehicles built in North America increasing 8.5 percent in October. [D2.]
 
International
Mexico is considered unlikely to be flooded with Japanese and European trade if Nafta is defeated. [A10.] Mexico made concessions that helped the Administration's effort to pass Nafta. [A19.]
Ukraine imposed currency controls, a sign that the Government was backing away from free-market changes. [A6.]
 
Markets
Stocks were pummeled as investors reacted to rising interest rates. The Dow lost 35.77 points, to 3,661.87. [D1.]
Treasury securities' prices fell for the fourth day, with the 30-year bond yield jumping to 6.10 percent, from 6.05 percent. [D16.]
Oil prices recovered, a signal to some traders that a six-month decline was reversing. [D19.] The dollar eased. [D19.]
 
Today's Columns
Economists are split over whether professional football should be subject to antitrust laws. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Troubles with a schizophrenia drug came at an anxious time for Merck, which has other problems. Market Place. [D8.]
WPP's on-again, off-again sale of Scali, McCabe, Sloves to Interpublic was postponed. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D20.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); BMY (NYSE) (55%); IPG (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (55%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (50%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: QVC INC (82%); LIBERTY NATIONAL BANCORP INC (71%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (55%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (55%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (50%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UKRAINE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (85%); SALES FIGURES (79%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (79%); BUSINESS LIABILITY (79%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); BONDS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); RETAIL SALES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (73%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); RETAILERS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); CURRENCIES (67%); US DOLLAR (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (50%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



77 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Another Tumble In the Decline Of Main Street

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BROCKTON, Mass., Nov. 3

 BODY:
The heart of another Main Street broke today.
Romm's & Company, jewelers at No. 162, after 93 years here the oldest store in downtown Brockton, a Tiffany's to the working class, a store whose third-generation owner is this year's chairman of the downtown merchants' association, packed up and moved to a shopping strip near a highway interchange. And one more boarded-up cadaver was left on a street where about half the commercial space stands empty. 
 "When I heard they were leaving," said George Thomas, born here 59 years ago and an official of the state employment office just off Main Street, "I looked at it and said, 'There goes the landmark of downtown, the backbone of downtown.' If I wanted to buy my wife a nice piece of jewelry, that's where I would go."
There is nothing especially novel about the travails of the crippled shopping hub of this old industrial city in southeastern Massachusetts, midway between Providence, R.I., and Boston. Here, as along most Main Streets, grand old names like Sears, Woolworth's and W. T. Grant and scores of one-of-a-kind specialty shops are long gone, either dead or flown to shopping centers. Competition from suburban discount chains, scarce parking and one-way streets have been choking downtowns for decades.
But in good times or bad some stores, usually family-owned, had held on and prospered. In many cities now, even those stores are giving up, victims not only of competition with the malls but also of job losses and declining wages among longtime customers.
Brockton (population 95,000), which claims at one time to have put shoes on the feet of 1 in 5 Americans, has just one shoe factory now. In the past, people who earned wages that let them shop at Romm's reclaimed their jobs when recessions ended, so they would return to the store for their engagement rings, their silver, their crystal.
This time, more than two years after the latest recession officially ended, many shoe factory jobs, and manufacturing jobs here in the newer defense and computer industries, have not come back, in large part because of foreign competition and cuts in military spending.
Plenty of other jobs have developed, Mr. Thomas says, but many are in part-time retail work. That kind of job -- and Brockton's typical retail wage of $5 to $9 an hour -- does not support families, much less purchases of silver and crystal.
 
Fearful Customers
 Meanwhile, welfare families and new immigrants, many without jobs or credit, have settled into downtown's cheap housing and share Main Street's sidewalks. With poverty and an unemployment rate of 8 percent have come other changes downtown: break-ins, teen-age prostitution and drug abuse that tear at the city's pride and heighten the fears of middle-class consumers.
As he supervised the installation of his old display cases in the new Romm's, at a one-story shopping center called Michael's Plaza, Alexander Romm Rysman, 51-year-old grandson of the Russian immigrant who founded Romm's, said, "Our customers didn't want to be there" in the downtown store.
"They didn't want to be seen coming out of the place with a gift bag," he said, though declining to say how much his sales had been hurt. "We would wrap it in a package and hide it under their coat The crazy thing was, we never had a customer report a mugging. But it didn't matter. They didn't feel safe down there."
The city is now using police foot and bicycle patrols to assuage downtown shoppers' fears. But the area's new consumers have created problems, too. Mr. Rysman said the annual cost of the fees that his bank charges him for his customers' bad checks had jumped to $500 from $20 eight years ago.
Mr. Rysman has a doctorate in sociology and teaches sociology part time at Northeastern University in Boston. So in explaining downtown Brockton, he likes to look beyond the simple exigencies of managing a business.
"There has to be a way for someone who is not academically gifted to make a living," he said. "What's happened over the last 20 years is the working class has been hammered. It's been forced into the dependency classes. The influx of the dependency classes has hit downtown hard.
"Downtowns should be anarchic, with a wonderful mixture of everybody living cheek by jowl. It should have stores catering to the low end and boutiques catering to the wealthy, not like the malls."
But with mostly the poor left downtown, he said, that dynamic dies. "And until we can get the guns out of the hands of children," he added, "the middle class is going to retreat to narrow enclaves."
 
A 'Dependency Class'
 LeMar's House of Fashion, the last women's specialty store on Main Street, is ready to move, too. Lee Roukous, co-owner with Margaret George, said she was waiting for a place at Michael's Plaza, after 38 years downtown.
Four months ago, Mrs. Roukous installed a door buzzer so she could see whom to let in. Romm's had one, too. So does Thuya's Fashion, a Gap-like casual-wear store where a saleswoman said someone smashed a window 15 days ago and took some clothes.
"We're mostly high fashion that has average-to-better prices," Mrs. Roukous said. "We still have our first customer. Every Thursday she comes in. We have a lot of people like that. Very loyal. The bad thing is, I can't open evenings because of the bad publicity, even though nobody's ever bothered us."
A homeless shelter nearby on Spring Street seems to fan customers' apprehensions. "I think because of their appearance, people think they might be dope addicts," Mrs. Roukous said.
 
Oases of Prosperity
 At 3 o'clock on a Tuesday afternoon, 17 men and 3 women -- former factory workers -- are seated around Sweeney's four-sided bar downtown. Jim Mongeau, co-owner of the Genova Pub and Cafe, comes in for a drink. He knows every one in the place. "There's not a person in here that works," he said. Most, he said, are getting by on unemployment checks, disability checks or Social Security.
Some Main Street businesses are doing all right, Mr. Mongeau said, including his. He opened his pub a little over a year ago, and a sign on the window announces that its closing time has been extended to 11 P.M. from 9:30. John J. Merian, owner of a tuxedo and wedding-gown rental shop, Mr. Rysman's successor as head of the Downtown Brockton Association, says he is also doing fine.
"But there's this meltdown," Mr. Merian said. "There needs to be a focus on rebuilding the community. If you can get that, you can get a resurgence of downtown. We have to work to alleviate that perception of crime."
James Skenas, 74-year-old owner of United Furniture, said, "The only thing we can do is clean up some of the mess." Like Mr. Merian and Mr. Mongeau, Mr. Skenas plans to stick with Main Street, though doing so will mean a different way of doing business.
He said he would not open charge accounts for "the new people" but would take a credit card or let them use the layaway plan. "We're taking our money guaranteed," he said.
"Good luck to him," Mr. Skenas said of Mr. Rysman. "He's a smart boy. He hasn't helped the situation by moving out. But it's in his best interest."

GRAPHIC: Photo: About half the commercial space along Main Street in Brockton, Mass., now stands empty as merchants flee the downtown to head for suburban shopping centers. Alexander Romm Rysman, the owner of Romm's & Company jewelers, watched workers move his business to a mall. (Evan Richman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROMM'S & CO

ORGANIZATION: ROMM'S & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BROCKTON (MASS) UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (92%); JEWELRY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FINE JEWELRY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FAMILY (89%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (87%); FOOTWEAR MFG (86%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); RELOCATIONS (76%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); ADOLESCENTS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (68%); DEFENSE SPENDING (65%); POVERTY RATES (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); IMMIGRATION (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



78 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Domestic Vehicle Sales Grew 8.5% in October

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 3

 BODY:
The recovery among auto makers that began late in the spring continued last month, with sales of cars and light trucks built in North America climbing 10.3 percent in late October.
For the month, the auto companies reported yesterday, sales of all vehicles -- cars and light trucks, assembled in North America and shipped from overseas -- rose 8.5 percent from October 1992 levels, to more than 1.1 million. 
 The results, coming atop robust sales a year ago, were "significant because of the scope of the increases, as well as the size of the increases," said John J. Ferron of J. D. Power & Associates in Agoura Hills, Calif. "You're seeing, in particular, North American-produced vehicles growing in the marketplace."
The strength of the yen is driving buyers away from increasingly expensive Japanese imports, he continued, and toward domestic-built vehicles -- which the industry defines as those assembled in Mexico, the United States and Canada.
Partly because of this value consciousness among shoppers, auto makers like the Toyota Motor Corporation, which have assembly plants here and overseas, saw their sales of imports plummet while their sales of domestic-built cars rose.
Meanwhile, the General Motors Corporation, offering few imports and a wide variety of domestic vehicles, some at relatively low prices, posted its largest monthly increase in sales since September 1989.
G.M. also took back some market share, rising from 32.4 percent in October 1992 to 34.7 percent last month. The greatest strength was in the Chevrolet division, where sales spurted 41.1 percent in the month.
"October was very good, excellent," said Dan Bischof, vice president and general manager of Ed Morse Chevrolet in Lauderhill, Fla. "Customers seem to be more readily available and in buying moods."
But other dealers said consumer wariness about the economy was leading many to postpone buying. "People are just sitting back on the midrange auto -- the blue-collar and lower-level white-collar workers -- until after the 1st of the year, after holidays," said Dominic Giambrone, general sales manager of Al Piemonte Ford in Arlington Heights, Ill.
Analysts said the market was on track to exceed 15 million vehicles for the year. "I thought sales were just fine," said Ron Glantz, auto analyst with Dean Witter in San Francisco. "We're back on trend line."
Late in October, domestic car sales rose 10.4 percent, to 226,424. Domestic light-truck sales -- including pickups, mini-vans and sport utility vehicles -- rose 10.1 percent, to 168,743.
The seasonally adjusted annual rate of car sales for the Oct. 21-31 period was 6.9 million, compared with 6.6 million during the corresponding period last year and 7.8 million at mid-month. For the month of October, the selling rate was 7.1 million. For the month, sales of domestic and imported cars rose 7.3 percent, to 722,524. Sales of both groups of light trucks rose 10.5 percent, to 438,063.
For the month, G.M. posted a 14.7 percent increase in sales of its domestic cars, to 250,514, and a 12 percent increase in sales of domestic light trucks, to 145,376.
The Ford Motor Company's sales of domestic cars rose 4.5 percent during October, to 158,984. Its sales of domestically built light trucks rose 19.1 percent, to 142,818.
The Chrysler Corporation's sales of domestic cars rose 15.9 percent, to 64,233. Chrysler domestic truck sales increased 6.7 percent over a strong sales period a year ago, to 94,340.
Toyota's sales of North American-built cars increased 18.8 percent, to 26,581, but its sales of imports declined 24.6 percent, to 24,463. Its sales of North American light trucks increased 2.7 percent, to 8,521.
The Nissan Motor Company's sales of cars made in North America increased 54 percent, to 23,899, while its sales of imports fell 22.3 percent, to 14,789. Its sales of North American light trucks fell 12.4 percent, to 13,232.
Honda's sales of North American-built cars slipped 1.6 percent, to 35,224. But its sales of imported cars rose to 27,328, an increase of 12.2 percent. Mazda posted a 25.2 percent rise in North American-built car sales.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (82%); TM (NYSE) (82%); 7203 (TSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (82%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (68%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES NORTH AMERICA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); RETAIL SALES (78%); MINIVANS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); TRENDS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); MARKET SHARE (72%); SALES MANAGEMENT (68%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (52%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



79 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 367 words

BYLINE: AP; Two Groups Assail Plan to Let Airports Use Private Guards

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Consumer advocates and a police union official say they are outraged by a Government proposal to allow airports to use private security guards instead of police and to continue curbside baggage check-ins during terrorist alerts like those imposed after the Persian Gulf war and the World Trade Center bombing.
Critics said the proposed rules, which the Government drafted to eliminate red tape and excessive costs during terrorist alerts, would jeopardizepublic safety. 
 But the Federal Aviation Administration said the change would save money and simplify procedures without lowering the nation's guard.
The F.A.A. said the rules were not yet in effect, but unlike most Federal rules, they could be implemented without public comment being sought. It is not clear what, if any, further steps are required to implement the new rules or whether the agency will even say when they have gone into effect. The agency does not make its security plans public.
 
Weak Link at Curbside
 Among critics of the plan is Frank McGuire, who edits Security Intelligence Report, a newsletter that deals with airline safety. "At the highest stage of alert, a private guard doesn't have the clout of a police officer," Mr. McGuire said. "I don't think that's the place for a rent-a-cop."
Mr. McGuire said curbside baggage check-in, which under current rules is halted during terrorist alerts, "is considered the weakest link in the security chain."
Geraldine Frankoski of the Aviation Consumer Action Project said: "The industry is expert at negotiating to avoid the more costly and inconvenient countermeasures. There is no justification for excluding a bona fide public representative from developing these standards."
Gus Danese, head of the New York-New Jersey Port Authority Police Benevolent Association, said, "If there's an extra need for security, let them hire more police officers." He said that "$5-an-hour private guards" were not trained to handle law-enforcement emergencies.
In its draft of the new rules, the F.A.A. promises to be more selective in ordering terrorist countermeasures that "would impose relatively high operational and economic burdens on airports and air carriers."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT; AVIATION CONSUMER ACTION PROJECT FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITY INTELLIGENCE REPORT; AVIATION CONSUMER ACTION PROJECT FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS; LUGGAGE; TERRORISM; GUARDS; POLICE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY CONSUMER LAW (90%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (90%); TERRORISM (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); AIRLINES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); DESERT STORM (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



80 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Fed Reports a Slow to Moderate Improvement in Business

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Business conditions in most of the country improved at a "slow to moderate" clip during September and October, but large pockets on both seaboards remained lackluster, an anecdotal survey of the Federal Reserve Board's 12 districts showed today.
The findings of the central bank, though noting renewed strength in motor vehicles and housing, struck much the same tone as two months ago when it also described national growth as "slow to moderate," and seemed less buoyant than implied by various recent statistics. 
 The Fed's so-called beige book survey, conducted to aid the members of the Federal Open Market Committee when they gather for a policymaking session on Nov. 16, also pointed to a holiday season that is unlikely to match last year's, when shoppers went on a largely unexpected spending spree.
"Retail sales growth is not expected to be as rapid as last year's strong Christmas season," the report said, summarizing the comments of the five districts that expressed a view on holiday sales.
 
Acute Differences Found
 The survey also showed acute differences among geographic areas and industries. The Chicago and Minneapolis districts appeared particularly strong, while the New York and San Francisco districts were singled out as "mixed," meaning they showed negatives as well as positives.
Smaller home builders in the New York district, for example, which includes northern New Jersey, still found it difficult to get construction loans without a signed contract from a buyer, with loans to acquire and develop land "virtually impossible" to get, the Fed report said.
The San Francisco district reported improvement across much of its eight states, but California remained "sluggish," and weak conditions were also found in western Washington and Hawaii, heavily reliant on aerospace and tourism, respectively.
Partly offsetting the drag in California from cutbacks in military-related manufacturing and construction were some improvements in electronics and retail trade. The motion picture industry and agriculture remained strong.
 
A 'Weak' Picture
 But the Fed concluded, "While contacts in California indicate more positive signs than in previous reports, the overall picture remains weak, particularly in the South."
The Clinton Administration has been seeking ways to aid the most populous state in the country, but this effort seems likely to be confined to the lifting of export controls on high-tech goods and transition aid for military industries, Robert Rubin, the head of the President's National Economic Council, indicated this week.
By contrast, respondents to the survey in the Chicago district reported that factory output had "strengthened considerably" in the last two months, bolstering employment, mainly reflecting a surge in the automotive sector.
At the same time, exporters in the area said they had suffered from weak European activity that had cut demand and led to more aggressive pricing by competitors there.
 
Hiring Is Deferred
 The Chicago district also reported on a poll of small employers in Michigan, a substantial majority of which had deferred hiring because of regulatory uncertainty. On the other hand, the Fed reported that a placement firm for engineers said employers were increasingly expecting the overhaul of the country's health care to be such a "prolonged" process that it had become a less serious constraint to hiring than it had been earlier in the year.
The Minneapolis bank reported that even in Sioux Falls, S.D., which had an unemployment rate of just 1.6 percent, there was a shortage of labor. "Businesses report difficulty finding qualified help," the survey said.
The Atlanta district, which includes Florida, said the retailers in the Southeast had found that consumer spending had leveled off in recent months following relatively strong growth in the first half of 1993 and auto sales "have slowed from their torrid midsummer pace."
 
Richmond Market Stronger
 Richmond reported that the real estate market in its district strengthened slightly, with activity particularly strong in northern Virginia. Lower-priced houses in Charleston, S.C., however, suffered from the announced closing of the naval base there.
The real estate market in New England perked up, with the Boston district reporting single-family house sales running 15 percent to 20 percent ahead of the levels a year earlier in Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Maine. House prices in Connecticut, however, were still falling and expected to bottom out before the spring.
Consistent with recent Government figures, the Fed's survey uncovered very little inflation pressure across the country, describing retail prices as flat and competitive. The demand for bank loans was said to be steady to slightly higher.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY CONSTRUCTION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); SALES FIGURES (79%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (69%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); CHRISTMAS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); EXPORT CONTROLS (60%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



81 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Tumble in Selloff On Fear of Higher Rates

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
Apparently spooked by the prospect of rising interest rates, investors pummeled stocks yesterday, dragging down a broad swath of the market in very heavy volume.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which had hit four record highs in the last 10 days, plunged more than 50 points by late afternoon before the New York Stock Exchange activated its restrictions on computer-program trading to prevent the index from falling further. The Dow ended the day down 35.77 points at 3,661.87. 
 The selloff came as yields on Treasury bonds and notes rose for the fourth session. [Page D16.] Disturbing some traders were signs of price increases in the Federal Reserve's so-called beige book, which noted that business conditions improved at a "slow to moderate" pace in September and October. [Page D2.]
Analysts said yesterday's heavy stock trading seemed to reflect a growing fear that a jump in interest rates would damage the stock market because many investors would switch to fixed-rate securities from equities. Stocks have flourished in the last year on an influx of money from people seeking higher returns on their investments.
The Government in recent weeks has released data indicating that the pace of the recovery was accelerating, pushing down the bond market, which dislikes economic growth because it may fuel inflation. The declines in bond prices in the last four sessions -- and the resulting rises in bond yields -- appear to have increasingly chipped away at the confidence of stock investors.
"It was the worst market we've had in quite a while," said George P. Pirrone, a vice president at the Dreyfus Service Corporation. "People are nervous about high interest rates. If we get a sign -- and we haven't had one yet -- that inflation is ready to rear its ugly head, that could promote a large selloff."
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday was 342.1 million shares, up from 304.8 million shares on Tuesday. The heavy volume was tied to computer-program trading that kicked in late in the afternoon, apparently triggered by rapidly declining stock prices.
Declining issues on the Big Board outnumbered advancing issues by nearly 3 to 1. Stocks in small- and medium-sized companies were also pounded. The Nasdaq composite index plunged 12.71 points, to 772.95.
The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks dropped 5.42 points, to 463.02. The American Stock Exchange's composite index declined 2.58 points, to 481.70.
Many investors spent the day fixated on the Dow Jones utilities index, which fell 6.19 points, or 2.6 percent, to 231.68, its lowest level since Feb. 18. Utility stocks tend to be sensitive to interest rates because those companies are capital-intensive. As the index continued to drop through the day, it spread gloom through the market, traders said.
 
Semiconductors Slump
 All 15 stocks in the utilities index declined, including Philadelphia Electric, down 1 1/8, to 29 1/4; Niagara Mohawk, down 1 1/4, to 20 1/8; Consolidated Edison, down 1 1/2, to 32 1/2, and American Electric Power, down 7/8, to 36 7/8.
Life insurance, bank and stock brokerage stocks were also battered because of the anxiety over interest rates. And semiconductor stocks, which have led many recent rallies, slumped after some analysts warned of a weakness in the demand for computer chips.
"With the way the semiconductors were being sold off, the way the electric utilities were being sold off, they all gave a very bad tone to the market," said Dennis E. Jarrett, the chief market analyst for Kidder, Peabody & Company. "We didn't have anything that was really positive to offset the long list of negatives."
Also suffering were the cyclicals, whose earnings are sensitive to the performance of the economy. Motorola plunged 3 7/8, to 99 3/8; Caterpillar dropped 1 3/8, to 91; Allied Signal fell 2 1/4, to 71, and Hewlett-Packard declined 1 5/8, to 74 1/2.
 
Impact of Elections
 Among the few bright spots were the pharmaceutical stocks, which appeared to gain because of the elections on Tuesday. Investors were apparently betting that the defeat of Democrats in New York City, New Jersey and Virginia would weaken President Clinton's ability to push through his health care package, which may cut into the profits of pharmaceutical companies.
Merck rose 1 1/8, to 32 7/8; Pfizer increased 1 3/8, to 63 5/8, and Eli Lilly was up 1 1/8, to 55 3/8.
Technology stocks on the Nasdaq, which have powered that market in recent months, were hit hard. Intel was the most active on the exchange, dropping 1 7/8, to 60 7/8. Nextel Communications fell 2 5/8, to 49 7/8; Microsoft declined 1 3/4, to 78 1/2, and Apple Computer was off 1 1/8, to 31 5/8.
But Claudia Mott, the director of small capitalization research for Prudential Securities, said she was not worried by the steep Nasdaq decline. "The small cap market has done very, very well in the last few months, so it was probably time for a pullback," she said.
Still, she added, "it doesn't mean that anything devastating is going on. It's healthy to have a correction when the market is going too fast and furious so things can proceed upward at a more modest pace."

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); NYSE MKT LLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (91%); BONDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



82 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 ELECTIONS: Governor;
Whitman Triumphantly Pledges Income-Tax Cut by 1994 Budget

BYLINE: By KIMBERLY J. McLARIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Christine Todd Whitman made a triumphant entry into the State House today only hours after claiming a narrow victory over Gov. Jim Florio. Appearing before a crowd of legislative leaders and cheering supporters, she said she would get to work immediately to redeem a major campaign pledge: cutting income taxes for most residents, beginning with the 1994 budget.
"My first priorities for the state of New Jersey are creating jobs and lowering taxes," said Mrs. Whitman, the first woman ever elected governor of New Jersey. "That's where my focus is going to be." 
 But within an hour, legislative leaders held a news conference of their own where they distanced themselves from the tax plan. The Senate President, Donald T. DiFrancesco, said he wasn't sure the income-tax cut proposal was meant to be "anything concrete," describing it as a proposal made during the campaign season to encourage a comparison with "someone who made no proposals at all." [Page B7.]
Mr. Florio spent the day at the Governor's mansion in Princeton, ceding the spotlight at the capital to Mrs. Whitman. By contrast, in New York City, both Mayor David N. Dinkins and Rudolph Giuliani, the next Mayor, appeared together to appeal to voters to work together for a better New York.
Mr. Florio and Mrs. Whitman did talk briefly by phone about the transition, a conversation that the Governor-elect said was "gracious."
Today Mrs. Whitman, who capitalized on voter anger over tax increases to defeat Mr. Florio by more than 30,000 votes, said her election proved that New Jersey voters were able to see through the smokescreens raised by Mr. Florio during the campaign and focus on the important issues of jobs and the economy.
"The voters of New Jersey did a couple of things yesterday, one of which was to prove the pollsters and the political pundits wrong," she said.
"More than that they really said they wanted a change and they were able to see through a lot of things that were thrown up that weren't necessarily relevant to their desires."
And she said that by electing her, voters signaled a red light to President Clinton and Congress about tax increases.
"They want to see the cuts before they see the tax increase if there's ever going to be tax increases," she said. "The voters did say you've got to take a second look. I believe those in Washington who are watching and have watched this race will understand that, and take a second look at their policies and insure those spending cuts are there."
 
Major Point Is Tax Cut
 Mrs. Whitman staked her campaign on a package of economic proposals that included regulatory reform and increased emphasis on support for small business. But the major proposal was a promise to cut the state income tax for most residents by 10 percent a year for three years.
Today Mrs. Whitman promised to adhere to that plan.
"As I said over and over again, what I talked about in economic policy was not a campaign promise, it wasn't a political promise, it was promise for governance," she said. "And that's how we're going to do the business of New Jersey."
Later, in response to a question, Mrs. Whitman said she would spend her first five months concentrating on trimming the state budget. She said the income-tax cut would take affect July 1, 1994. And when asked again if she could trim the budget enough to offset what will eventually be a 30 percent cut in income taxes, Mrs. Whitman turned to Assembly Speaker Garabed (Chuck) Haytaian, who was seated in the spectators' gallery.
"Are we going to do this?" she asked.
Smiling down at her and giving her the thumbs up, Mr. Haytaian said, "You got it."
At the legislative news conference a short time later, however, Mr. Haytaian joined Senator DiFranscesco in cautioning that Mrs. Whitman would still have to put her plans into detail and obtain Legislative approval.
Mrs. Whitman said she would immediately begin screening potential cabinet appointees, saying she hoped to have most slots filled by the time she takes office in January. She appointed two people to head her transition team: John Sheridan, a Morristown lawyer and former state Commissioner of Transportation, and Hazel F. Gluck, the Whitman campaign chairwoman, who held several positions in the Kean administration.
As the only official elected statewide, New Jersey's governor exercises unusual control over most aspects of state government. Mrs. Whitman will be able to appoint 3,500 positions, according to her chief campaign spokesman, Carl Golden. That number includes all cabinet members, judges from the Supreme Court to the local level, county prosecutors and members of dozens of authorities, including those that operate the Garden State Parkway, New Jersey Turnpike and the New Jersey Sports Complex.
Already political analysts are speculating about the most important positions in the cabinet and the kind of people she might seek to fill those jobs. Even though both leaders of her transition team were members of the Kean administration, some Republican analysts said Mrs. Whitman would not simply look to people from the last Republican administration. They said Mrs. Whitman would take her time in seeking candidates, reaching out to successful people outside of government as well as some who are more familiar with the inner workings in Trenton.
"Just look at the campaign," said one analyst. "She marched to the sound of a different drummer. In June, July, August, when people were telling her to step up the campaign, she didn't give in."
 
Slots to Reflect Population
 Mrs. Whitman said that the positions of treasurer and secretary of state were among the most important slots she would fill and said her administration would reflect New Jersey's population in race and sex.
"I also want cabinet officers who are going to be confident enough in themselves and who they are" to be able to reduce the size of their departments, she said.
Mrs. Whitman said she would meet this week with Republican legislative leaders and Mr. Florio to discuss any unfinished business of this administration. Republicans lost the two-thirds control of both houses they held before Tuesday's election, but held majorities of 24 to 16 in the Senate and 53 to 27 in the Assembly, a Democratic gain of three seats in the Senate and five in the Assembly.
At home in Princeton, Mr. Florio took sympathetic calls from President Clinton, United States Senator George Mitchell of Maine and former Gov. Brendan T. Byrne. Audrey Kelly, the Governor's spokeswoman, said the day belonged to Mrs. Whitman and Mr. Florio did not want to detract from it. The Governor is scheduled to meet with reporters at the State House on Thursday.
After leaving the State House, Mrs. Whitman climbed aboard her campaign bus and made several stops to thank voters.
At Fred & Pete's Deli, a popular Hamilton Township meeting place for local politicians of all stripes, a Whitman volunteer, Bill Baroni, covered a sign advertising the daily specials with a newly printed one: "Welcome to Hamilton Governor Whitman."
Mrs. Whitman was greeted by scores of well-wishers chanting "Christie, Christie."
"A lot of folks in here have seen politicians come and go," said Mr. Baroni as Mrs. Whitman accepted congratulations and signed dozens of autographs. "The people here are treating her like a celebrity. And, well, she is a celebrity."
As Mrs. Whitman thanked local campaign workers, others in the crowd beamed approvingly and were already foreseeing bigger and better things for the Governor-elect.
"If she governs the state well, she's Presidential material," said Wanda Pettit-Schielke.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Christine Todd Whitman in the Assembly chamber yesterday. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. A1); Schoolchildren waiting in Hamilton Township, N.J., to welcome Governor-elect Christine Todd Whitman. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. B8)
 
Table/Map: "RESULTS: The Race for New Jersey Governor"

 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	COUNTY	RPTNG.	FLORIO	%	WHITMAN	%	OTHERS	%	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Atlantic	100%	38,152	58%	25,810	40%	1,267	2%	Bergen	100%	146,573	47%	156,639	51%	5,609	0%	Burlington	98%	60,358	51%	57,434	49%	380	0%	Camden	100%	89,345	62%	49,794	35%	4,191	3%	CapeMay	100%	18,824	53%	15,672	44%	894	3%	Cumberland	100%	18,231	50%	17,217	47%	1,007	3%	Essex	97%	111,893	58%	76,118	40%	3,296	2%	Gloucester	100%	41,931	55%	31,252	41%	2,709	4%	Hudson	96%	74,827	58%	51,779	40%	2,155	2%	Hunterdon	100%	12,893	31%	28,154	67%	1,010	2%	Mercer	100%	49,696	46%	56,396	52%	2,382	2%	Middlesex	100%	105,425	49%	104,259	48%	5,831	3%	Monmouth	100%	87,276	43%	111,215	55%	4,985	2%	Morris	96%	58,267	37%	98,536	62%	2,786	2%	Ocean	97%	76,240	46%	85,825	51%	4,772	3%	Passaic	100%	54,897	45%	65,289	53%	3,062	2%	Salem	100%	9,162	43%	11,171	52%	1,146	5%	Somerset	100%	36,361	39%	54,869	59%	1,346	1%	Sussex	100%	13,052	30%	28,614	66%	1,373	3%	Union	100%	73,650	48%	75,854	49%	3,911	3%	Warren	100%	12,215	39%	17,667	57%	1,101	4%	Totals	99%	1,189,268	48%	1,219,564	49%	55,243	2%	(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); SALEM, OR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); SALEM, OR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; VOTER BEHAVIOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION ; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; TAXATION; FINANCES TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); GOVERNORS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTION LAW (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); TRENDS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD; MCLARIN, KIMBERLY J; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV) BILL CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



83 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 ELECTIONS: The Capital;
Uncertainty Surrounds New Arrival

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Tony Constantini, manager of the snack bar in the State House, was curious about how to address New Jersey's newly elected head of state. "Can you get used to saying Madame Governor?" he asked with a chuckle this morning.
Mr. Constantini was one of the few people chuckling in the hushed hallways at the seat of New Jersey government today following Christine Todd Whitman's narrow victory over Gov. Jim Florio on Tuesday. Until Mrs. Whitman and her top aides breezed into the Assembly chambers for a news conference in early afternoon, the State House atmosphere was subdued, almost funereal. All morning long, the hallways and the main lobby seemed as empty as a theater hours before curtain time. 
 The prevalent mood was one of startled surprise at Governor Florio's loss and jitters about possible cuts in state jobs once Mrs. Whitman takes office in January.
 
'Almost Everyone's Surprised'
 "I thought he was going to win," said John Fratinardo, manager of State House custodians. "I heard a lot of people say they felt he was going to win. Almost everyone's surprised. They really felt that listening to the polls he wasn't going to lose."
Over at the Labor Department Building, Mr. Fratinardo's sentiments were echoed by an operator in the Office for the Disabled Unemployed.
"I thought sure he was going to win," she said. "Most of the other workers thought so too."
Now come weeks of uncertainty for thousands of state workers, said the operator, a state employee for 23 years. She asked to remain anonymous.
"We know what we have, and now we don't know what we're getting," she said. "I thought he was good. Now she's talking about cutting back. But we never know till they get in that chair. They say one thing and turn around and do another."
The only specific job reduction plan Mrs. Whitman discussed today was a 20 percent cut in the Governor's staff of 152. She spoke generally about trimming the size of some departments, without identifying which ones or by how much. There are about 67,000 state employees.
"The First Lady's office will go for sure," Kim Klein, a secretary in the agency that manages the State House, said of the office that Mr. Florio's wife, Lucinda, opened soon after he became governor.
 
Civil Service
 Ms. Klein is a state civil service employee with 11 years experience. She didn't feel her job was jeopardized.
"Once you're in civil service, you're pretty safe," she said. "It's kind of hard to get fired unless you're really bad. If I get bumped, I'll just bump somebody else with less years than me."
Out on the State House lawn, a groundskeeper who identified himself only as Jim was moving fallen oak leaves into a pile with a leaf blower. He shared none of Ms. Klein's sense of a secure job. In the last seven years, he said, his maintenance crew has been cut from 14 to four members.
"We used to cut grass at 23 state buildings," he said. "Now we don't cut any at all, or plant any flowers, or do any carpentry. Everything is contracted out to private companies who hire illegal aliens.
"The way it looks and the way they're talking, there's going to be a layoff in January," Jim said. "With Florio, at least I had a job."
 
Blueberry Muffins
 Mr. Constantini, the snack bar manager, said the change in government will mean losing old friends in the Florio administration, gaining new ones when Mrs. Whitman takes office and taking care to satisfy a new governor's tastes in snacks.
"Governor Florio likes a blueberry muffin each morning," Mr. Constantini said. "And when he's sick, he gets five to six large teas each day and plenty of soup." Aides stop by for them, he said.
At the Labor Department, Walter Burke, a labor market analyst, spent an afternoon break puffing on his pipe, serenely indifferent to anxieties about a new administration and job security.
"Who was it that said, 'The more things change, the more they stay the same'?" Mr. Burke said. "I think the state runs well and will continue on. Governors come and go. I thought Governor Florio did an excellent job in the face of adversity. I also think Mrs. Whitman will do a very good job."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE HOUSE PRESS (87%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); LAYOFFS (LABOR) LAYOFFS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



84 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 ELECTIONS: NEW JERSEY -THE VOTERS;
'Undecideds' Decided for Whitman

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

 BODY:
New Jersey's voters remained true on Tuesday to their reputation as an independent and volatile electorate by moving in the last weeks away from an incumbent Governor campaigning as a front-runner and handing a come-from-behind victory to Christine Todd Whitman.
An analysis of responses by nearly 2,000 voters leaving the polls from around the state suggests that Gov. Jim Florio may have run the right campaign for an election being held in mid-October. It was not until the last few weeks that Mrs. Whitman, perhaps by softening her campaign style while Mr. Florio stuck to a scorched-earth approach, captured a bloc of undecided voters that was more than large enough to provide her margin of victory. 
 The voter poll, conducted by Voter Research and Surveys at 40 sites around the state, found that 59 percent of the 2.4 million voters who turned out said they had made up their minds by Labor Day, and that Mr. Florio held the lead in this group by 53 percent to 47 percent.
Fully 30 percent of all voters, however, said they had not decided until the final two weeks of the campaign, and Mrs. Whitman won 58 percent of those voters. Put in terms of raw votes, the net advantage from the last-minute deciders who went for her amounted to 5 percent of the turnout, equal to about 120,000 out of the 1.2 million people who voted for Mrs. Whitman, about four times her 30,000-vote margin of victory.
 
Low-Key Scenes at End
 The last few weeks of the campaign coincided with a marked softening of Mrs. Whitman's tactics. Her advertisements, which for months had been largely negative attacks on the Governor, began to feature her and her children, and paired her in low-key scenes with former Gov. Thomas H. Kean, who is still hugely popular in the state.
"She clearly decided to go positive in the last few days, and it turned out to be a good calculation," said David Rebovich, a professor of political science at Rider College, in Lawrenceville. "The undecided voters already knew why they should not vote for Florio. The trick was to get them, one, to turn out, and two, to vote for her. Apparently she did it."
So the last lap of Mr. Florio's roller-coaster ride as Governor turned out to be a downhill one. First written off as all but dead when voter hostility to his $2.8 billion tax increase in 1990 gave Republicans veto-proof control of the Legislature, he fought his way back in earlier opinion polls by stressing his leadership and by savaging Mrs. Whitman's lack of experience in state politics.
As late as September, after Mrs. Whitman was found to be particularly vulnerable for her promise to cut income taxes for most voters by 30 percent over three years, Mr. Florio scored high on qualities of leadership, sensitivity to voters' needs and administrative reliability. A slim majority of respondents even seemed willing to accept his huge tax increase.
 
Different View at the Polls
 On Tuesday, however, voters leaving the polls reported different views of both candidates. They showed themselves to be much more worried about high taxes and the state's laggard economy, issues Mrs. Whitman had run on, than they were on Mr. Florio's strengths, in areas of experience, crime and gun control.
A quarter of the voters also put honesty and trustworthiness as primary values they looked for in a candidate, and three quarters of those who said this said they had voted for Mrs. Whitman.
Finally, Tuesday's voters seemed much more willing to give the Governor-elect the benefit of the doubt on her claim that she could make good on her tax-cut pledge without gutting state services: 51 percent said she could not do it, but 47 percent said she could. She won three-quarters of the votes of those who said she could.
These responses from voters suggest that besides capturing a large 'anyone but Florio' bloc, Mrs. Whitman managed to reach many voters with the three themes of her race: that she was a new breed of citizen-politician, that she wanted to revitalize the political culture of New Jersey by connecting with the people during her administration, and that she had a plausible alternative plan for governing.
 
Aided by the Year of Recall
 Being something of an outsider -- her only other elected office was as a Somerset County freeholder -- may also have helped her with an electorate in an anti-politician, anti-incumbent mood, to judge from the 3-to-1 approval of a constitutional amendment authorizing recall elections in the state.
The gap between the sexes that has emerged as a feature of national politics also played a part in New Jersey's vote, with 53 percent of the women favoring the male Democrat and 55 percent of the men supporting the Republican woman.
Meanwhile, Governor Florio lost about a quarter of the people who said they voted for him in his 1989 race against United States Representative James A. Courter, while Mrs. Whitman kept all but 10 percent of the people who said they had supported her in 1990 in her near upset of Senator Bill Bradley, the event that began her statewide career.
In one of the election's more enigmatic developments, Mrs. Whitman also gained strongly among people with at least some college education in her victory over Mr. Florio. By comparison, in her race with Senator Bradley, voters in those educational categories, amounting to half the electorate, said they favored Senator Bradley by a small margin, while in Tuesday's race, they said they had abandoned the Democrat for Mrs. Whitman by about 55 to 45 percent.
 
Economic Insecurity
 It is impossible to guess at a single factor that could account for such a shift in sympathies among such a large and diverse segment of the electorate, but some analysts suggested yesterday that economic insecurity in a recession that has touched white-collar employment to an unusual degree may be partly responsible for it.
It is clear, however, that Mrs. Whitman cut deeply into areas that were once loyally Democratic. In his 1989 race, Mr. Florio carried all but four rural counties, while on Tuesday, Mrs. Whitman won eight counties that Mr. Florio had won four years ago.
These included Mercer County, seat of the State Capital and home of many state employees who blame Mr. Florio for large reductions in the state work force. Mrs. Whitman also carried the central and southern counties of Monmouth and Ocean, which Mr. Florio easily won four years ago. Those two counties are home to dozens of new communities that have sprung up among sod and fruit farms in recent years to house many retirees and first-time home buyers, who are known to be particularly unforgiving of new taxes.

GRAPHIC: Photos: After casting his ballot on Tuesday at a polling place in Princeton, N.J., a voter was greeted by a canine friend. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times); Sensing a victory for their candidate, supporters of Christine Todd Whitman cheered election results at her headquarters in Princeton. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "A Portrait of New Jersey Voters"

<?	 	 	 	 	 	 	% of	Total		Senate	1990	Gov.	1993	1989	1993		Bradley	Whitman	Florio	Whitman	100%	100%	Total	50%	47%	49%	51%	46	50	Men	49	51	 45	55	53	50	Women	54	46	 53	47	11	15	18-29 years old	55	45	 46	54	33	33	30-44 years old	55	45	 52	48	29	25	45-59 years old	48	52	 43	57	27	27	60 and older	48	52	 54	46	26	32	H.S. Grad	52	48	 54	46	28	25	Some college	53	47	 45	55	27	24	College graduate	51	49	 44	56	18	18	Post graduate	50	50	 51	49	17	20	Liberals	80	20	68	32	51	52	Moderates	53	47	53	47	30	28	Conservatives	32	68	28	72	35	33	Republicans	22	78	19	81	29	34	Democrats	86	14	80	20	32	32	Independents	52	48	47	53	28	26	White Protestants	37	63	40	60	55	49	White Catholics	54	46	45	55	7	6	Jews	 73	27	67	33			VOTED IN 1989 FOR	 	 	 	 		-	53	Florio		72	28		-	26	Courter		10	90			VOTED IN 1990 FOR	 	 	 	 		-	49	Bill Bradley		74	26		-	26	Christine Todd Whitman		10	90			SAY '90 TAX RISE WAS	 	 	 	 		-	41	Right thing		 93	7		-	55	Wrong thing		 17	83			SAY 30% CUT IS	 	 	 	 		-	47	Possible		25	75		51	Not possible		73	27	 	WHEN DECIDED WHOM TO VOTE FOR	 	 	 	 	 	 		-	30	In last two weeks		42	58		-	10	After Labor Day		53	47		-	59	Before Labor Day		53	47	
 
Based on data collected by Voter Research and Surveys. Questionnaires were filled out by 1,936 voters leaving polling places in 40 randomly selected precincts throughout New Jersey on Tuesday. Figures from 1990 are based on questionnaires filled out by 1,144 voters leaving polling places in 40 precincts on Election Day that year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; GOVERNORS (US) ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); VETO (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); US LABOR DAY (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); TAX LAW (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (59%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



85 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 ELECTIONS: Ballots Measures;
New Brooms Sweep In Power of Recall and Term Limits as Well as Candidates

 BODY:

New Weapon: The Recall
New Jersey voters gave themselves new leverage over elected officials Tuesday, approving a constitutional amendment that would allow the recall of everyone from borough council members to United States senators.
The measure, the only statewide ballot question, was approved by a margin of 75 percent to 25 percent. 
 Members of the State Assembly and Senate must now develop the legislation that will put the amendment into practice and could ultimately be used against them.
Politicians are subject to recall after serving one year in office. If 25 percent of registered voters sign a recall petition, a question to remove the official would appear on the following November's ballot.
The time frame effectively exempts members of the State Assembly and House of Representatives, who serve two-year terms.
Recalling United States senators also poses unresolved legal questions, as their terms are governed by the Federal Constitution. Three other states have a recall provision applicable to Federal legislators: Arizona, Wisconsin and Michigan. No attempt has ever been made to recall a United States Senator or Representative, according to Dave Kehler of the Public Affairs Research Institute of New Jersey.
 
Still True to the Blue Laws

Residents of Bergen County decided that they wanted to keep the state's only countywide blue laws, which prohibit most shopping on Sunday.
Voters rejected the effort to repeal the laws by 63 percent to 37 percent, with 99 percent of the county's precincts reporting.
The question was largely about convenience and competitiveness, on the one hand, and the maintenance of suburban tranquillity, on the other. The densely populated county is home to some of New Jersey's largest malls, and many of its more than 825,000 residents commute to New York, a combination that produces perpetual weekday traffic jams.
Even if the county laws had been repealed, several major malls would have remained closed because they are in Paramus, a community that enforces its own ordinances against Sunday shopping and has vowed not to lift them. Repeal would have put the Paramus malls at a disadvantage compared with other malls in the county, and commercial and political pressure to join the rest of the county could have become intense.
 
Results on Term Limits

Voters across New York reached different conclusions on the merits of term limits for local politicians.
In the Rochester area, Monroe County voters decided to limit the county executive to three consecutive four-year terms and county legislators to 10 consecutive years in office beginning in 1995.
In the Binghamton area, Broome County voters defeated a three-term limit for their county legislators. The measure would have increased the length of terms from two to four years.
On Long Island, a majority of Suffolk County voters ruled that top elected officials and county legislators, starting next year, should be limited to 12 consecutive years in one job.
In the city of Plattsburgh near the Canadian border, voters decided the mayor and city council members should have term limits of eight consecutive years starting next year.
Voters in Jamestown defeated a proposal that called for limiting the mayor to two four-year terms as of 1996. The mayor can now serve an unlimited number of two-year terms.
 
New Mayors Upstate
 Several cities in upstate New York are getting new mayors.
Rochester voters knew they would be electing their first black mayor and a political outsider because that's what both candidates were. They chose William A. Johnson Jr., a Democrat who has led the local Urban League chapter for 20 years, over his Republican opponent, Mark Dulaney. Neither one had ever held elected office.
Buffalo will be getting its first new mayor in 16 years: State Senator Anthony Masiello, who swept to an easy victory in the heavily Democratic city. He will replace Mayor James Griffin, a provocative leader who once called the city council "a bunch of goofs" and has picked fights with city officials and reporters.
In Syracuse, a Republican will serve as mayor for the first time in 24 years. Roy Bernardi, the city auditor for 20 years, defeated Joe Nicoletti, a Democratic State Assemblyman. Mr. Nicoletti had been endorsed by the current Mayor, Tom Young, who must leave office because of term limits imposed after a scandal in an earlier administration.
 
Sweep in Southold
 On the ballot, it looked like no contest. Scott L. Harris, the incumbent Republican Supervisor of Southold, L.I., a rural town on the North Fork, was running for a third term on the Republican, Democratic and Conservative lines.
Yet, Mr. Harris and other Republicans with similar cross-endorsements were swept from office by an insurgent party, United Southold, composed of dissidents from the three parties who said town government had grown to be a closed shop, too much in the thrall of local party bosses.
Thomas H. Wickham, the supervisor-elect and scion of one of Southold's oldest families, said even he was surprised by the insurgents' lopsided victory. He defeated Mr. Harris 5,737 to 3,628, in unofficial results.
In another Suffolk County race, Nora Bredes, a Democrat from Stony Brook and an environmentalist, turned back her Republican challenger, Jeanne Garant, a Port Jefferson real-estate agent, who had questioned whether environmental issues deserved top billing in a hard economic time.
Suffolk Republicans scored victories in races for district attorney, sheriff and treasurer, but failed to add to their 11 seats in the 18-member County Legislature.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); JAMESTOWN, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR AZOV SEA FISHERY PROBLEMS (55%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (55%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; BERGEN COUNTY (NJ); MONROE COUNTY (NJ); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); PLATTSBURGH (NY); BROOME COUNTY (NY); JAMESTOWN (NY); ROCHESTER (NY) ; BUFFALO (NY); SYRACUSE (NY); SOUTHOLD (NY) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); JAMESTOWN, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS; SABBATH OBSERVANCE; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ELECTIONS; MAYORS ; LOCAL GOVERNMENT LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); TERM LIMITS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COUNTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); REFERENDUMS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); MAYORS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ORDINANCES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); PETITIONS (73%); POPULATION DENSITY (69%); RETAILERS (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (52%); 

PERSON: ;MASIELLO, ANTHONY M; BERNARDI, ROY; WICKHAM, THOMAS H; HARRIS, SCOTT L

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



86 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Fuel Dispute Is Brewing In E.P.A.

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
In a collision between clean air in New York and foreign policy in Latin America, the Environmental Protection Agency in Washington is considering a request to let Venezuela ship gasoline to the Northeast that contains more of a smog-producing chemical than American refiners will be allowed to market.
The request from Venezuela has created an alliance of two perennial enemies, the domestic oil companies and the top environmental officials of the Northeastern states, who have asked the E.P.A. to deny the request. But the Venezuelan Ambassador to the United States, in a stiffly worded letter, has complained that under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, to which both countries are signatories, the United States must allow the imports. And officials in Washington say the State Department has asked the Environmental Protection Agency to interpret the gasoline rules in a way that favors the Venezuelans. 
 Much of the Venezuelan gasoline would be sold by Citgo, which Venezuela owns and which has more than 6,200 outlets on the East Coast, but the issue is of particular importance in the New York metropolitan area because of summer smog problems. Nearly 20 percent of the gasoline used in the Northeast is imported. About 20 percent of gasoline imports come from Venezuela.
 
Turmoil in Venezuela
 The Venezuelan national oil company, known by its initials, PDVSA, wants to sell gas here containing olefins, a category of smog-causing chemicals, at a level of up to 29.8 percent. Under the Clean Air Act amendments of 1990, American refiners will be limited to 9.2 percent olefins, beginning in 1995.
Venezuela has long been considered a force for moderation within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, and during the Persian Gulf war, when oil prices briefly approached $40 a barrel, the Venezuelans obliged a United States request to maximize oil production, rather than profits. In addition, Venezuela, the hemisphere's largest oil exporter, is in the midst of economic and political turmoil, with two coup attempts so far this year, and the United States does not want to add to instability there. Venezuela has invested heavily in the United States and has recently permitted American companies to invest in its oil sector.
"It's a democracy; it's one of the countries that has supported us," said John Lichtblau, chairman of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, based in New York. "There is a special relationship there."
At the Northeast States for Coordinated Air Use Management, an organization comprising the air pollution control directors of New Jersey, New York and the six New England states, the executive director, Michael Bradley, said that the environmental imperatives were clear but that "there is some Department of Commerce sentiment to give them exemptions, for issues unrelated to the environment."
 
Harsh Letters Exchanged
 Environmental considerations often clash with foreign policy goals, but usually the environment at stake is in the Third World, not in this country, and the issue is whether to give aid to a country that is involved in environmentally unsound activity within its borders.
The issue, which the E.P.A. is to decide by Dec. 15, has provoked the exchange of some unusually harsh letters. The chairman of the Sun Company Inc., which uses the Sunoco and Atlantic brand names, said in a letter on Oct. 1 to Carol M. Browner, the E.P.A. Administrator, that "at a recent energy gathering in London two weeks ago, the Venezuela Minister of Petroleum, Dr. Alirio Parra, virtually bragged to the attendees that PDVSA has been able to convince the highest levels of the Clinton Administration that they should be granted special treatment."
Two weeks later, the Venezuelan Ambassador to Washington, Simon Alberto Consalvi, wrote to Ms. Browner that Sun's chairman, Robert H. Campbell, had been "disparaging, intemperate and truly offensive."
But in a letter last week, Mr. Campbell said, "If ever there was a line-in-the-sand issue for the U.S. refining industry and the men and women who work there, this one is it."
 
Effect on Jobs
 A spokesman for Sun, Bud Davis, said yesterday: "We shut down the fuels production portion of our Tulsa refinery because it was going to take $150 million to meet environmental standards. Two hundred people are out of work there because of that.
"Why should those people be out of work because it's so expensive to meet environmental standards, when we have Venezuela getting an exception so they can continue to bring dirty gasoline in?"
A spokesman at the Venezuelan Embassy said no one there yesterday could comment.
Under the Clean Air Act, beginning in 1995 refiners may not sell gasoline with more olefins than was present in their gasoline in 1990. The issue is whether Venezuela will have to hold itself to the olefin level that the law says was present in domestic gasoline in 1990, or whether it may use the level that was present in Venezuelan gasoline in 1990. A different set of rules takes hold in 1998.
Olefins contribute to the formation of nitrogen oxides, which in summer can combine with hydrocarbons in air to make smog. But her agency has not yet reached a decision on the Venezuelan request, she said. She added that the State Department had not taken any official position.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (54%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (57%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (57%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); VENEZUELA UNITED STATES (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GASOLINE ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (93%); SMOG (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); ALIPHATICS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); GASOLINE (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); DESERT STORM (64%); EXECUTIVES (63%); COUPS (61%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



87 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 16; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Towns Use Tax Incentives to Lure Companies

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: AVON, Conn.

 BODY:
Years ago this affluent suburb of Hartford was able to rely on a low tax rate, good schools and even an unmistakable New England charm to persuade companies to move here.
But when Bauer Aerospace, a manufacturer of aircraft test equipment, approached Avon officials last spring about receiving tax abatements if they moved to Avon, town officials agreed. Bauer saved itself about $32,000 in taxes over seven years, a small amount compared with the $4 million in grants it received from the state, but money Avon might not have had to give up four years ago. 
 Avon is among several suburban towns in Connecticut beginning to offer tax breaks -- long the purview of larger cities like New Haven and Bridgeport -- to attract companies. Economic development experts point to the lagging economy, stagnant property-tax base and reductions in state aid to wealthier towns as among the reasons.
"Anybody interested in economic development has to get into a participation with the utilities, the state and other agencies," said Avon's Town Manager, Philip K. Schenck. "It's definitely a bargaining environment."
 
Grand Lists Barely Up
 A survey by the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities found that municipal grand lists, the value of all taxable property in a community, had increased an average of only six-tenths of one percent this year, compared with 5.1 percent in 1988-89.
"There's no doubt the effect of the recession has been brought to bear on the suburban towns," Kevin Maloney, a spokesman for the conference, said. "The public is saying, 'We can't afford to pay more. We're in the middle of a recession.' So towns haven't been able to get the tax increases they need just to keep pace with inflation."
Connecticut towns are being more aggressive about using tax incentives than towns in nearby states, development officials said.
In New Jersey, small towns cannot offer such tax abatements, since the Legislature has authorized their use only by the state's large cities. Municipalities in New York have been allowed to offer tax abatements to businesses since 1976, but the state's small towns and suburbs have used them largely to induce companies to expand, instead of to attract new ones.
Joseph M. Cohen, a spokesman for the Connecticut Department of Economic Development, said towns in Connecticut are following the lead of the state, which has been aggressively pursuing companies that want to move to Connecticut. The state, for example, closed a deal in May with Dun & Bradstreet, giving the financial information company a $7.2 million grant to move its executive headquarters from Manhattan to Wilton.
"Municipalities, in a manner similar to the state, are finding it's a much more competitive game and to meet the national and international competition For jobs, they're being pressed to be more aggressive," he said.
 
Competing With Neighbors
 Yet that competition mimics the state in another way as well: Just as Connecticut is luring companies from neighboring states, especially New York, towns often end up luring businesses from neighboring municipalities.
Cheshire, for instance, approved its first tax-abatement program this summer. The G. S. Building Systems Corporation, which has offices in Newtown and Farmington, is seeking a tax break to consolidate its corporate offices in Cheshire. The company, a unit of General Signal in Stamford, manufactures building safety products like emergency lighting and fire systems.
Similarly, East Haven, a town bordering New Haven, negotiated its first tax break last year when Town Fair Tire, a retail tire company, used a vacant mattress factory there to consolidate its warehouses in Bridgeport and West Haven and its Wethersfield corporate headquarters.
Town and state leaders defend the incentives, saying that even when companies leave one town to move to another, the companies are staying in Connecticut, keeping the jobs in the area. G. S. Building Systems, for example, was considering moving to Maine or Florida, Gerald L. Sitko, Cheshire's economic development coordinator, said. Bauer Aerospace, a division of Woodward Governor Company of Rockford, Ill., was also talking about moving out of state, Mr. Cohen said.
 
East Haven's Program
 East Haven, which now has a tax-incentive program ready for any manufacturer, is working with a national company looking to relocate. The company, which town officials declined to identify is also considering moving out of state, said Louis A. Zullo, the town's director of administration and management.
"What we're offering probably pales in comparison to what they can get in the Sun Belt," Mr. Zullo said. "Maybe it's still costlier to be here, but it might bridge the gap just enough."
The competition among towns is particularly difficult for Connecticut's cities, which were already struggling to steady their industrial base when the recession hit. A second company to benefit from Avon's policy was the Reflexite Corporation, which moved a factory from the neighboring Farmington and its corporate headquarters from New Britain.
 
A Bitter Disappointment
 David O. Prendergast, executive director of the Municipal Economic Development Agency, a nonprofit group that handles New Britain's economic development, said Reflexite's decision was a bitter disappointment for the city. Reflexite, which makes reflecting material for clothing, road signs and other products, had been working with the city on plans to renovate a New Britain building when it heard about the Avon property.
"We were hoping to keep a company that had started here and had been doing very well," Mr. Prendergast said. "But these are the realities of economic development, and sometimes we can't compete with the suburbs, especially in this economy, when there are bargain pieces of real estate."
"It's doubly hard when they offer tax breaks," he said. "That was the kind of thing we used to use to bring us closer to an even playing field."
Reflexite was able to buy the Avon property at a good price: $1.8 million for a 55,000-square-foot building and surrounding 15 acres. The same property sold for $3.7 million in 1986.
But Avon's willingness to offer the company a small tax break -- $5,000 over two years -- also contributed to the company's decision, said Cecil Ursprung, the company's chief executive officer. "In the broad scheme of things, local taxes rarely make or break a deal," Mr. Ursprung said. "But it served as an indicator of the town's desire to have Reflexite become a citizen."
Cheshire town officials realized they needed to have something to offer in addition to the strengths -- its professionally managed government, a small-town atmosphere -- that it traditionally emphasized.
"Historically, a company would come into town and say, what could we do to cut taxes? And we would say, 'We don't do any of that.' And the company might walk out and go somewhere else," Mr. Sitko said. "Just having a policy in place has helped."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: BAUER AEROSPACE (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX INCENTIVES (91%); TAX LAW (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); RECESSION (89%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CITIES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



88 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1801 words

HEADLINE: Nobels Pile Up for Chicago, but Is the Glory Gone?

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
The University of Chicago, the home of great conservative economists like Milton Friedman and George J. Stigler, has had an extraordinary run. Just how extraordinary was underscored last month when Robert W. Fogel, an economist who revised history's view of slavery, took the university's fourth Nobel Prize in economics in four years.
With seven Nobel Memorial Prizes in Economic Science in all, the bold, brilliant, free-market Chicago school has won as many Nobels as M.I.T., Stanford and Harvard universities combined. Long distinguished by its emphasis on empirical research, strikingly simple ideas and a biting, polemical style, Chicago has been kicking sand in Cambridge's face since its economics department was founded in 1892 by James Laughlin, an archconservative. 
 To many, however, Chicago's clutch of prizes is a measure of past, not present, influence. "It's old glory that's being rewarded here and much of that is glory that's gone," says Arjo Klamer, an economic historian at George Washington University.
"Chicago doesn't loom very large in people's minds right now," added Paul R. Krugman, an M.I.T. economist who won the John Bates Clark Medal for young economists in 1991.
 
Remaining in the Ivory Tower
 It may be tempting to think that Chicago is out because Clintonomics is in or because the academics who now occupy palatial offices in the Treasury Department or the President's Council of Economic Advisers tend to hail from Cambridge, Princeton or Berkeley. But the measure of the past influence of Chicago never was the number of posts its faculty occupied inside the Beltway. There were few even in the Reagan days when some of Chicago's most outspoken free marketeers chose to stay in the ivory tower, where they could continue to criticize.
"I don't think our department's ever been influential in the sense of phone calls to Washington," says Sherwin Rosen, the chairman of the department. "There's no shuttle service here and there."
Instead, economists at Chicago and elsewhere attribute its waning influence to its own success, the unique role of dominant individuals like Milton Friedman, as well as to the technical bent of its younger faculty. And some of the harshest assessments come from Chicago disciples.
Robert J. Barro of Harvard, who was on Chicago's faculty twice and is one of the most prominent conservative economists of his generation, says, "The kind of work going on there is bound to be less influential."
And David Henderson, a research associate at Stanford's right of center Hoover Institution (where Professor Friedman moved after retiring from Chicago in 1977), says, "The new Chicago doesn't have the old Chicago flash, moral tone or importance for public policy."
Chicago's defenders insist that critics have always denied the influence of Chicago, including during what are now seen to be the good old days, and that Chicago's detractors can't possibly know what current research will prove to be of lasting value.
Chicago's grand slam, of course, was breaking up the near-monopoly in American economic thought by that patron saint of government intervention, the British economist John Maynard Keynes. Keynesianism, which focused on market failures and government policies for correcting them, took hold after the Depression and, by the early 1970's, reigned supreme in the White House and Capital Hill as well as in academe.
Much of the doctrine's influence stemmed from its seemingly successful prescription for avoiding booms and busts by running budget deficits during recessions and surpluses during expansions.
Professor Friedman argued that the apparent postwar successes of policy makers in moderating the economy's swings had more to do with growth of the money supply than with deficit spending and predicted trouble, more inflation and less employment, from the Keynesian policies. His star student, Robert E. Lucas Jr., took the Friedman critique a step further by exposing a fundamental theoretical flaw in Keynesianism.
In a theory that came to be known as rational expectations, he showed that if consumers and businesses could learn from experience, monetary and fiscal policy could do little to smooth the economy's growth except to make things worse. Initially rejected as far out, monetarism and rational expectations gained credence in the 1970's when stagflation -- that nasty combination of high inflation and high unemployment -- stymied Washington and its Keynesian advisers, many of them from Cambridge.
 
Reinvigorating Conservatism
 By boldly showing how well the market worked, how often government failed and how relevant the workings of the market were to social issues, pioneers like Professors Friedman and Stigler helped reinvigorate American conservatism by providing a rigorous, intellectually respectable rationale for laissez-faire. At the same time, innovative Chicago economists, including Gary S. Becker, Ronald H. Coase, Merton H. Miller and others, invented entire disciplines by applying basic economic insights like the law of supply and demand to sociology, law and finance.
"You could call all these people missionaries," says John Y. Campbell, an economist at Princeton. "They all learned Chicago price theory and took it to some benighted field and converted the heathens. There was a very hostile reaction at first, but, in the long run, they made a difference."
Interviews with graduate students, assistant professors, stars and superstars, leave little doubt that Chicago is still a force, one that most economists expect to collect more Nobels. The university nurtures brilliant young scholars: from the labor economist James J. Heckman to the mathematical economist Nancy L. Stokey. And it is still churning out leading-edge research. The university's Nobelists, following a Chicago tradition, eschew elder statesmanhood to pursue ambitious research agendas.
Casey Mulligan, who got his B.A. at Harvard and took his doctorate at Chicago, turned down offers from Harvard and Stanford to stay at Chicago, says: "When I come into my office on Sundays, Gary Becker is in his office, too. If I went into Littauer on a weekday, I wouldn't be able to find Larry Summers." Professor Summers, arguably Harvard's biggest star and winner of this year's John Bates Clark Medal, left his research post (and his office in Harvard's Littauer building) to become, first, chief economist at the World Bank and now Under Secretary for International Affairs in the Clinton Treasury.
 
Dedication Is Intense
 The dedication is so intense that it is no exaggeration to say that Chicago resembles a monastery -- and an atmosphere that is not hospitable to young scholars who want to spend time elsewhere. Professor Becker, whose own research program remains ambitious despite the laurels he has won, says that Chicago is downright unpleasant for anyone not totally immersed in research.
"Nobody minds rudeness, exaggeration or simplicity," Robert W. Vishny, a lively young finance professor, says with a grin.
And at Chicago, economics isn't practiced just in the economics department, but in business, history, sociology and law. Lunchtime talk, indeed talk at any time of the day, is more likely to revolve around models and algorithms than who's doing what to whom.
A typical passing remark at Chicago: "You know why that guy isn't going to run us over even though the light's green?" asks Kevin Murphy, a young labor economist. "It'd cost him a lot of money if he did."
Professor Murphy, an intense redhead who looks more like a high school football coach than an academic, in many ways typifies both the old and new Chicago. His research explains why pay inequality surged during the 1980's. Other researchers had hypothesized that the shift from manufacturing to service jobs, and competition from imports were to blame. But the growing spread of pay within professions and within industries, that Professor Murphy had hypothesized, turned out to be far more important than shifts among industries.
Ironically, this path-breaking research underscores why Chicago is not as influential as it used to be. Its methods and message are no longer as unique as they once were.
 
'Not a Revolution Anymore'
 "When a revolution succeeds, it's not a revolution anymore," says Douglas B. Baird, director of Chicago's Law and Economics Program in the law school.
Professor Krugman, the M.I.T. economist, agreed. "When Gary Becker started with the idea of edcuation or changing jobs or having a third child as investment decisions, it was startling. Now everybody does it."
And while Chicago's brand of libertarianism never won much favor in Washington and it was supply-siders who came to Washington under President Reagan, Chicago indeed succeeded in converting the heathen. Communism is dead. Israel's new central banker, a former Chicago professor, is a hard money man. Former Latin American populists and protectionists now embrace privatization and free trade.
Chicago's lingering influence is also evident in Washington, where Chicago ideas helped push policy back toward the center and helped to lower expectations about how much micromanagement of the economy could hope to achieve.
 
Chicago Has Changed
 But Chicago, too, has changed. It has lost some of its moralistic edge, and is no longer the center of the Chicago school. Many of the extreme real free-market types have chosen the University of Minnesota, the University of Rochester or Carnegie Mellon as their outposts.
"In Chicago under Friedman, there was this moral tone," Mr. Henderson says. "Not only is this important, but it's also to help us figure out what's right and wrong."
Like most other economics departments, Chicago has also become far more abstract. One Cambridge economist called it "a long sorry descent into techno-babble." Mr. Henderson says, "The old Chicago approach based on clearly articulated theories subject to straightforward empirical tests has been lost in favor of slightly mindless mathematical games."
But if Chicago's star has waned, it isn't because another center of influence has emerged. Harvard and M.I.T. -- usually referred to as "Cambridge" -- have generated some excitement in trade, the transformation of socialism to capitalism and financial markets. Princeton dominates labor economics. Stanford has become the headquarters for information economics and game theory.
Some Chicagoans acknowledge that others are catching up. Professor Becker, who won the Nobel Prize in economics last year for work on discrimination, demographics and crime, says he doesn't know if Chicago is still as good as it was. "Is Chicago going to produce as many Nobels? No. Will there be several more? Yes. The monopoly is almost impossible to maintain."


GRAPHIC: Five of the brightest stars on the economics faculty of the University of Chicago.
 
Nancy Stokey,
Photos/Chart: "The Second City's First Team"
 Age: 43
 Field: Mathematical economics
 Ph.D.: Harvard, 1978
 Showed that countries systematically specialize in new products and abandon old ones as their per capita income rises
 
Robert E. Lucas Jr.
 Age: 56
 Field: Business cycle theory
 Ph.D.: Chicago, 1964
 Considered a shoo in for a Nobel prize for showing that if consumers are capable of learning from experience, government has very little ability to affect economic growth
 
Gary S. Becker
 Age: 62
 Field: Economics of discrimination, family and education
 Ph.D.: Chicago, 1955:
 Extended economic analysis to realms of discrimination; family and education; awarded Nobel prize in 1992.
 
Kevin Murphy
 Age: 35
 Field: Labor economist
 Ph.D.: Chicago, 1986
 Proved that a major cause of rising inequality in pay has been the growing demand for sophisticated skills and training
 
Robert W. Vishny,
 Age: 34
 Field: Finance
 Ph.D.: MIT, 1984
 Wrote the rules for Russia's privatization program for selling off state owned enterprises. (pg. D1)
 
Chart: "Chicago Nobels"
 Milton Friedman, 1976, monetary theory
 Theodore Schultz, 1979, economic development
 George Stigler, 1982, economics of regulation
 Merton Miller, 1990, finance
 Ronald H. Coase, 1991, economics and the law
 Gary S. Becker, 1992, economics of human behavior
 Robert Fogel, 1993, economic history
 Another University of Chicago professor, Friederich von Hayek won the 1974 prize for work on political economy he mainly did elsewhere. (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (96%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (94%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (94%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%); ILLINOIS, USA (96%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMICS; NOBEL PRIZES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); HISTORY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA; STOKEY, NANCY L; LUCAS, ROBERT E JR; BECKER, GARY S; MURPHY, KEVIN; VISHNY, ROBERT W PAUL KRUGMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



89 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Dollar Eases as Traders Await Employment Figures

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The dollar eased against most leading currencies yesterday, taking a step back after recent advances as traders awaited tomorrow's employment figures.
"We had a big day yesterday and we're seeing a little consolidation today as the dollar builds a base ahead of Friday," said Paul Farrell, vice president at Chase Manhattan. 
 Traders will get the first official report on the economy in October tomorrow with the release of the employment data. Unemployment is expected to have remained unchanged at 6.7 percent, and payrolls are expected to have grown by 146,000, compared with the prior month's rise of 156,000.
Dealers attributed the dollar's weakness against the Japanese yen yesterday partly to capital flows into Japan and out of the weakening Treasury bond market.
"They're selling U.S. 30-year bonds and dollars along with it, and repatriating the yen," a dealer said.
In late New York trading, the dollar fell to 107.63 yen, from 107.78 on Tuesday.
But mostly, dealers cited technical selling after the dollar surged to an 11-week high Tuesday against the German mark after the president of the Bundesbank, Hans Tietmeyer, said the central bank was not concerned about the dollar's strength.
 
'Having a Hard Time'
 "The dollar market's long and looking to retrace, but we're having a hard time approaching a solid selloff," said Richard Koss, director of foreign exchange sales for CIBC. "There's still sentiment to buy dips, but we're having a hard time pushing higher ahead of Friday's number."
The dollar fell to 1.6943 German marks in late New York trading, from 1.7040 marks on Tuesday.
The Federal Reserve's beige book, a survey of American economic activity, had little impact on the dollar, although it noted an increase in the pace of manufacturing and consumer spending. The Fed also said there were some shortages in automobile inventories. The beige book said retail prices had been mostly flat.
The British pound closed in New York at $1.4820, up from $1.4730 late Tuesday.
Other late dollar rates, compared with Tuesday's quotes, included: 1.5010 Swiss francs, up from 1.4730, 5.9065 French francs, down from 5.9385; 1,637 Italian lire, down from 1,644, and Canadian $1.3087, up from $1.3070.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (93%); US DOLLAR (91%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); BRITISH POUND (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (95%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



90 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: AT WORK WITH: Chief Wilma Mankiller;
The Name's the Most and Least of Her

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TAHLEQUAH, Okla., Oct. 29

 BODY:
When she was 10 years old, says Wilma Pearl Mankiller, the principal chief of the Cherokee Nation, "I set out on what I call my own little Trail of Tears."
Having spent her childhood in Mankiller Flats, near this Cherokee capital in the hills of eastern Oklahoma, she was uprooted in 1956 when her father, a full-blooded Cherokee, enrolled in a Federal program intended to urbanize rural Indians. She had never been west of Muskogee, and she, her parents and seven brothers and sisters were stepping on a train bound for San Francisco.
"I remember as we drove to the train, I felt so sad," she said. "I wasn't excited at all. I was trying to memorize every tree, and what the school looked like, which flowers were blooming in my grandfather's front yard, all those sorts of things."
But unlike the Cherokees along the notorious Trail of Tears of the 1830's, who were forced to move from their homeland in what is now the Carolinas and Georgia hundreds of miles west, Wilma Mankiller eventually came home again.
Hers is, in fact, a remarkable tale of a life come full circle, chronicled in a new book, "Mankiller: A Chief and Her People" (St. Martin's Press), which she wrote with Michael Wallis, a Tulsa journalist and author. It takes her from a childhood in the heart of Cherokee territory to a life as an unhappy housewife in the San Francisco Bay Area to what she says was an awakening in the protests of the 1960's that led her back to Tahlequah in the late 70's as an agitator for water lines, better schools and health clinics.
In 1985, she became the principal chief of the 94,460-member Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma. The first elected female leader of a major Indian tribe, she won a full four-year term in 1987 and was re-elected in 1991.
Chief Mankiller, whose mother is of Dutch and Irish descent, is a stocky woman whose face radiates a placid authority. But she can quickly inject a humorous edge into the conversation -- for instance, when the subject of her name comes up.
"Mankiller," an old term of respect for Indian warriors who guarded tribal villages, has been in her family for several generations. It's not an unusual name in these parts. There are Fourkillers and Tenkillers and Whitekillers, too. But outside of Oklahoma, she says, it draws comments, questions and even nervous laughs.
"Some people do earn their names in native culture," explains Chief Mankiller, who turns 48 on Nov. 18. "I didn't, but I don't always tell people that. Sometimes I just say that Mankiller is my name, I earned it, and I let 'em wonder."
But not just anyone can joke about the name. As her book makes clear, she was not amused when the editorial page of The Wall Street Journal, noting her presence at President Clinton's economic summit in Little Rock, Ark., said: "Our favorite name on the summit list, we have to admit, is Chief Wilma Mankiller, representing the Cherokee Nation, though we hope not a feminist economic priority." Chief Mankiller calls the remark "a cheap shot" and "a rather unfortunate remark about my surname."
At the modern brick-and-glass Cherokee Nation headquarters, the chief offers a study in eclecticism. For one thing, her wall decorations range from the tribal seal to Georgia O'Keeffe prints, from old legal codes written in the Cherokee syllabic alphabet to framed letters from Ronald Reagan and George Bush.
"It just came and the staff put it up," she says dismissively of the Reagan letter, which congratulates the chief on her leadership. "Ronald Reagan was not good on Indian issues at all. I met with him, along with some other people, and he didn't have the tiniest bit of interest in Indian issues," including increasing Federal funds for Indian health or education. Still, his letter is up there on her wall.
As a tribal chief, she knows plenty of traditional dances. But her favorite dancing song, she says, is Aretha Franklin's "Respect."
Chief Mankiller is at once the guardian of a centuries-old Cherokee heritage, encapsulated in the seal and the legal codes, and the chief executive of a major corporation, Cherokee Nation Industries, whose income from factories, a motel, gift shops, a ranch, a lumber company and other concerns accounts for nearly half the tribe's $76 million annual budget. Call the chief and a recording says: "Thank you for calling the Cherokee Nation. If you're calling from a touch-tone phone and know your party's extension, please dial it now."
While the Cherokee have a much stronger economic base than many other tribes, and tend to mix their economic and social activities more freely with the surrounding non-Indian population, Chief Mankiller says the money the tribe directs back into health-care and job-training programs, Head Start and a local high school has not produced miracles.
"If you look at data over the last 20 years, we've had an impact in infant mortality and the educational attainment level," she says. "We're nowhere near where we need to be on any of those issues, nowhere near, but we're headed in the right direction."
In her book, Chief Mankiller alternates accounts of the Cherokee Nation with her own personal narrative, both uncommon stories of survival. In her case, a head-on automobile collision in 1979 almost killed her; she has battled a degenerative nerve disorder, myasthenia gravis, and a few years ago she would have died from kidney failure had an older brother not given her one of his kidneys.
"To think of myself outside the context of the tribe or my family or my community would be very difficult," she insists in the interview.
One of the most critical episodes in Chief Mankiller's life was the seizure in 1969 of Alcatraz, in San Francisco Bay, by a group of Indians who claimed the island "in the name of Indians of all tribes." They stayed there for 19 months, and Ms. Mankiller visited frequently.
"I had felt there was something wrong with me because I wasn't happy being a traditional housewife," says Ms. Mankiller, who at the time was married to a wealthy Ecuadorean businessman, Hugo Olaya. "I started listening to what these people were saying. What Alcatraz did for me was, it enabled me to see people who felt like I did but could articulate it much better. We can do something about the fact that treaties are no longer recognized, that there needs to be better education and health care.
"This was also the time of the women's movement," she adds, growing more animated. "I saw women standing up and speaking out. All these things were powerful influences on me."
She had returned to Oklahoma a few times to see relatives and in, 1971, to take home the body of her father, Charley Mankiller. By 1977, divorced, she returned for good with her daughters, Gina and Felicia, who still live nearby with their four children.
"I never felt home until I came home," she explains. "When I came back here, then I began to understand, this is where I belong."
"One day I went to the courthouse in Stilwell to check on some land and I'm walking across the courthouse square. And there's a group of Cherokee men, old guys chewing tobacco, just sitting in judgment of everybody and the world. And then someone said, 'Ho, there goes John Mankiller's granddaughter!' That had such an impact on me. It was very sweet to my ears. I knew I was home, because no one in a courthouse in San Francisco would have ever said that."
Another profound event a few years after she moved back was her marriage to Charlie Soap, 48, a full-blooded Cherokee and community activist whom she credits with helping her get involved with Cherokee issues and to win election as chief.
"My ideas were way more liberal than those of the people I was asking to elect me," she says. But Mr. Soap, who had been in the area a long time, helped to assure the elders that she was not too radical and emphasized that, at least before the arrival of the white man, Cherokee women played a major role in tribal government.
Ms. Mankiller attracted considerable attention with her ascension to tribal leadership in the 1980's and her designation as a Woman of the Year by Ms. Magazine in 1987 -- as well as with honorary degrees from several Ivy League colleges and installation in the National Women's Hall of Fame in Seneca Falls, N.Y.
She says that when publishers approached her about writing a book, she insisted that it cover plenty of Cherokee history and the flaws of several figures long revered in American history, from Columbus (she includes a quote from the Indian activist Russell Means that Columbus "makes Hitler look like a juvenile delinquent") to Thomas Jefferson.
What's next? Next year she and her mother are off to Ireland to search for their roots. And what about 1995, when she is up for re-election?
Her husband, ever the supportive political spouse, says: "I'd certainly like to see her continue. If she runs, I'll be there, supporting her, going down roads campaigning for her."
And Chief Mankiller, the successful politician, is judiciously noncommittal. "I've kind of put off thinking about that, because it's two years away," she explains. "Maybe I'll start thinking about it in the spring."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chief Wilma Mankiller in her office in Oklahoma. (pg. C1); Chief Mankiller with her husband, Charlie Soap. (pg. C10) (J. Pat Carter for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: MANKILLER: A CHIEF AND HER PEOPLE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC3679 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: BAY AREA INSURANCE SERVICES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;OKLAHOMA UNITED STATES (96%); OKLAHOMA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; WOMEN; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CHEROKEE INDIANS WRITERS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (72%); WOMEN (68%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: MANKILLER, WILMA (CHIEF); MANKILLER, WILMA (CHIEF) (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; WALLIS, MICHAEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



91 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Relatively Few Taxpayers Are Jolted by the Nanny Scandal

BYLINE: By LENA WILLIAMS

 BODY:
THE Zoe Baird nanny scandal was expected to teach American taxpayers, be they rich or middle class, a lesson: you can't get away with employing illegal immigrants or failing to pay Social Security and Medicare taxes for legal domestic workers. Come clean or pay the price.
But it appears that many Americans didn't take to heart the predicament of Ms. Baird, who withdrew as a candidate for Attorney General in January partly because she had not paid the proper taxes for her household help. 
 It also seems that when it came to a choice between cutting into the earnings of a cherished nanny to pay Federal taxes or breaking the law by keeping quiet about employer-employee relationships, many taxpayers adopted the military approach: "Don't ask, don't tell."
Ms. Baird's case and similar situations encountered by a number of other Clinton Administration nominees appear to have jolted some people into action. The Internal Revenue Service reported a 17 percent increase in the number of Americans who paid taxes for domestic help in the first quarter of 1993 over the same period a year earlier.
"We suspect the reason for the difference between the first quarter calendar year of 1993 and the same period last year was that people were catching up for prior years, paying taxes for several quarters," said Donald D. Roberts, a spokesman for the I.R.S.
But the increase in those paying the taxes, to 408,000 from 349,000, is not expected to continue throughout the year, Mr. Roberts said. "We think we will probably see at least a 5 percent annual increase in the total number of quarterly returns of 942's -- the forms filed by employers for household help," he said.
The last available data for a full year are for 1991, from the Census Bureau and the I.R.S. A study based on the data estimated that only 25 percent of two million households employing domestic workers paid the required taxes that year.
Under the 1950 law that provides Social Security coverage for domestic employees, a 15.3 percent tax must be paid for every household employee who earns more than $50 in a calendar quarter, even the teen-ager who occasionally shovels snow or mows the lawn. Half of the 15.3 percent is supposed to be paid by the employer and half withheld from the employee's pay. If the worker is paid more than $1,000 in a quarter, unemployment taxes must also be paid.
It sounds simple, but it's a little more complicated than that.
"It wouldn't be so bad if it were just the 942's," said Albert A. Miller, a partner in Miller Levine & Company, an accounting firm in New York. "What happens is everybody gets into the act. Once you file the 942's, you become subject to state and Federal unemployment insurance taxes. Add to that the W-2 forms; now you're up to three or four pieces of paper.
"If you want to catch up, you're talking penalties and interest ad infinitum, and the I.R.S. changes its interest rates every six months."
Then, there's the little problem of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. A woman who called a radio talk show after the Zoe Baird story was front-page news told of paying her cleaning woman's Social Security, which brought the employee to the attention of the immigration agency. The agency then began questioning her.
Mr. Miller, the accountant, said he had found that most people who have permanent domestic workers were, and still are, complying with the law. Those with temporary help or people who come in once a week, he said, "ignored it, paid in cash and still do."
The issue gained widespread attention when Ms. Baird, President Clinton's first nominee for Attorney General, said she had not paid the required taxes for her nanny and her chauffeur, who were illegal immigrants. The President's next nominee, Judge Kimba M. Wood of the Federal District Court in Manhattan, was forced to withdraw after it was learned that she and her husband had employed an illegal immigrant to care for their son -- although doing so was legal at the time and she had paid the required taxes.
There are others who ran into problems over the issue. They include Ronald H. Brown, the Secretary of Commerce, who admitted having failed to pay taxes for a maid; Judge Stephen G. Breyer, a leading candidate for the Supreme Court, who did not pay taxes for a part-time housekeeper, and Shirley Sears Chater, the new Social Security Commissioner, who failed to pay taxes for a part-time baby sitter in the early 1970's.
Ms. Baird pleaded ignorance of the law. That is no excuse, but she apparently wasn't alone. News reports and Congressional testimony indicated that most Americans had not fully understood the law or known of its existence. And there are those who say they are perfectly happy not knowing whether the people they hire to work in their homes are in the country legally.
"If you use an agency, you get people with proper papers," said a woman who works as a social worker in Chicago and spoke only on condition of anonymity. "I got my housekeeper and nanny based on the recommendations of friends. I didn't bother to ask whether they were in the country legally. Even if they weren't, I wasn't about to turn them in."
Indeed, some taxpayers are finding that obeying the law may mean risking the loss of valued help.
The housekeeper of a woman on the Upper East Side threatened to quit if her employer began withholding a percentage of her salary. The woman, who also insisted on anonymity, said she acquiesced to avoid losing a trusted employee of nearly 10 years.
After years of paying their household help in cash, a well-to-do Hollywood couple with friends in the entertainment business, decided it was time to play it safe, which to them meant not only paying by check, but also withholding taxes.
"My husband and I went to our cook, our gardener, our nanny and our housekeeper and told them what we were going to do," the woman said, adding that she suspected that some of her workers were not legal residents. "They were horrified and begged us not to. The cook and the gardener said they would have to leave because they needed every cent they were earning."
The couple decided to leave well enough alone.
With President Clinton's new tax package expected to bring a tax increase primarily to those who can afford to hire nannies and housekeepers, it's doubtful that many Americans will voluntarily pay a tax they've been getting away with not paying. Besides which, there is nothing to indicate that the I.R.S. plans to crack down on violators, Zoe Baird notwithstanding.
"Our neighbors said we were foolish to even think about paying taxes for our household help," the Hollywood woman said. "It's like that old saying: Why invite trouble?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DOMESTIC SERVICE; TAXATION; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); FEDERAL TAXES (US); ILLEGAL ALIENS; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAXES & TAXATION (93%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); LAWYERS (73%); MEDICARE (72%); CENSUS (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (56%); 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, LENA HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



92 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Review/Theater: The Lights;
Crime, Drugs, Trash, the Homeless: Urban Reality at Its Grimmest

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
The bleak urbanscape that brought New York City a new Mayor this week can be found live onstage at the Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater at Lincoln Center. Howard Korder's play "The Lights" is set in an unnamed "large city" of "the modern era" that would have been right at home in Rudolph Giuliani's campaign commercials. Crime, drugs and garbage are rampant. The homeless are always underfoot. Civic corruption is ubiquitous. The good old immigrant values that once built the town are in rout.
And Mr. Korder's prescriptions for salvation are vague. "The Lights" is a two-hour, 40-minute wallow in the mess that would rather curse the familiar darkness with Expressionist flourishes than light any candles. It is the second urban nightmare play to arrive Off Broadway this week -- following "The Treatment" at the Public -- and it often seems indistinguishable from recent productions of Jose Rivera's "Marisol" and Sophie Treadwell's "Machinal," not to mention the doomsday Gotham of Tim Burton's "Batman" films. Given Mr. Korder's penchant for David Mametesque dialogue, audiences with longer memories will find echoes of Mr. Mamet's "Edmond" and "Water Engine" as well. 
 Though "The Lights" opens a Festival of New American Plays at the Newhouse, newness is hardly one of its qualities. Mr. Korder, whose earlier plays include "Boys' Life" and "Search and Destroy," can be both a provocative and bleakly funny writer, but in aiming for epic scope in this highly populated piece, he often states the obvious thunderously. The play seems to be speaking down to an unsophisticated audience, and it cautiously sticks to oblique references to racial divisions rather than risk getting anyone mad. Even the script's occasional subtle moments are often hammered in with overbearing electronic music, sound or visual effects that can turn a mild curtain line into a portentous cue for the End of Civilization as We Now Know It.
Here and there you can spot signs of the author's talent. Undisciplined and sprawling as "The Lights" may be, it has a clever trigger: the small act of shoplifting a watch at the play's start sets all its enormous machinery in motion (when it is in motion) and also introduces Mr. Korder's meditative, even hallucinatory preoccupation with time and history. Patient viewers will also discover some eerily poetic set speeches, including one in which the city is viewed from a skyscraper's great height and dissected as an infinity of individual decisions, "piled one on top of another," that may reflect what its citizens really want after all.
More typical of this predictable evening is the major and schematic plot thread that deterministically reduces Fredric (Dan Futterman), a young unemployed man who reviles the panhandling homeless, into the very image of what he despises. Fredric's sometime girlfriend Lilian (Kathleen Dennehy) is just as mechanically dehumanized when she and a fellow shopgirl (Kristen Johnston) allow themselves to be picked up by a pair of piggish businessmen (Jerry Grayson and Christopher McCann) who don't think twice about raping either the city or its female inhabitants.
The British director is Mark Wing-Davey, who does not draw many distinctions between the American city of "The Lights" and Ceausescu's Romania, which he brought to such stunning life in his production of Caryl Churchill's "Mad Forest." One size apocalypse fits all. Similarly, the gifted designer Marina Draghici has provided a striking two-level set -- part Constructivist, part Fritz Lang -- that will be most impressive to audiences who didn't see her similar design for the New York Shakespeare Festival's "Woyzeck" last season.
At their best, Mr. Korder, Mr. Wing-Davey and Ms. Draghici collaborate with the superb lighting and costume designers, Christopher Akerlind and Laura Cunningham, to create sepia-tinged spectacles that recall in words and chiaroscuro the urban jungle fantasized about in 30's Hollywood. A chaotic movie premiere suggests "The Day of the Locust," and the shopgirls' misadventures with moneyed male predators could be a sweaty Wallace Beery subplot from "Grand Hotel."
Other sequences are merely heavy, visually and aurally, and so is much of the acting from the Atlantic Theater Company. Jordan Lage and Steven Goldstein, past specialists in the Korder canon, have their sharp moments in various roles, as do Mr. Grayson, Mr. McCann and Ray Anthony Thomas. The rest are forgettable faces in the crowd, dutifully animating what one line accurately describes as "everyday scenes of violence and degradation" at which "we feel nothing."
 
The Lights
By Howard Korder; directed by Mark Wing-Davey; sets by Marina Draghici; costumes by Laura Cunningham; lighting by Christopher Akerlind; additional music and sound by Mark Bennett; fight director, David Leong; general manager, Steven C. Callahan; production manager, Jeff Hamlin. A Festival of New American Plays, Play No. 1, the Atlantic Theater Company, presented by Lincoln Center Theater, under the direction of Andre Bishop and Bernard Gersten. At the Mitzi E. Newhouse, Lincoln Center, 150 West 65th Street.
 
WITH: Tom Bloom, Leon Addison Brown, Kathleen Dennehy, Dan Futterman, Ileen Getz, Steven Goldstein, Jerry Grayson, Kristen Johnston, Jordan Lage, Christopher McCann, Andrew Mutnick, Neil Pepe, David Pittu, Herbert Rubens, Robin Spielberg, Ray Anthony Thomas and Todd Weeks.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kathleen Dennehy and Dan Futterman in a scene from Howard Korder's play "The Lights." (Gerry Goodstein/"The Light")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LIGHTS, THE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (93%); THEATER (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); CORRUPTION (71%); RACE & RACISM (70%); WRITERS (69%); MUSIC (50%); SHOPLIFTING (50%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK; KORDER, HOWARD FRANK RICH (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



93 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 ELECTIONS: Suburbs;
Region's Incumbents Are Shaken Winners

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
While incumbents were toppling almost everywhere, the Republican leaders of Nassau and Suffolk Counties managed to survive election night in one piece, but they suffered a fright they will not soon forget.
In Westchester, Andrew P. O'Rourke, County Executive for 11 years, beat Richard L. Brodsky, a six-term Assemblyman by fewer than 4,000 out of 207,000 votes cast, a far smaller margin than the last time Mr. Brodsky challenged him in 1989. In Nassau, Thomas S. Gulotta narrowly held off Benjamin L. Zwirn, the maverick Democratic Supervisor of North Hempstead, by 4 percentage points -- again far closer than his two earlier victories for the County Executive's job. 
 The narrow margin was particularly surprising in Nassau, where Republicans enjoy a 3-to-2 edge in voter registration and have one of the nation's most vaunted political machines.
The tight contests, political analysts said, reflected an anti-incumbent mood throughout the Northeast that is attributed to a faltering economy and that hurt Mayor David N. Dinkins in New York City as well as Gov. Jim Florio in New Jersey.
"There's a restlessness in the land with the way things are," said Lee M. Miringoff, director of the Marist Institute of Public Opinion.
But the races in Westchester and Nassau, Mr. Miringoff and other analysts said, also reflected a discontent that important problems are not being solved effectively or fairly.
In Nassau, a Republican patronage machine that fills hundreds of county jobs with party favorites has been partly blamed for driving up taxes and chasing away businesses that could provide jobs. Nassau's bonds are rated one notch above junk bonds.
 
Sending a Signal
 Many voters signaled Tuesday that they had had enough. Indeed, the Democratic organization was claiming victory of sorts by its surprisingly strong showing against Mr. Gulotta and its victories in more local races.
In Westchester, Mr. Brodsky ceaselessly reminded voters that Mr. O'Rourke had raised property taxes 124 percent during his 11 years. On a more personal level, Mr. O'Rourke was hurt by disclosures that he sought jobs and favors from county contractors for his live-in companion and family members.
"I'd actually rather have a Republican conservative in office than a Democrat because I think with Brodsky chances are taxes will rise," said Joan R. Katz, a retired teacher as she voted in Scarsdale. "But I don't like it that O'Rourke used his power to help a friend and so I voted for Brodsky."
Paradoxically, complaints about high taxes may have helped salvage the jobs of the two County Executives. Even if they were unhappy with Republican spending, many voters may have feared that the Democrats would spend even more, said Peter W. Delaney, Mr. O'Rourke's campaign manager.
 
Candidate Potshots
 In a blitz of television advertisements on the final weekend, Mr. O'Rourke portrayed Mr. Brodsky as "addicted" to raising taxes in Albany, just as Mr. Gulotta painted Mr. Zwirn as a tax-and-spend liberal.
Ultimately, the outcome may have been decided by such picayune political details as a lower-than-hoped-for turnout in Mr. Brodsky's home base of Greenburgh to offset the advantage Mr. O'Rourke has always had in attracting conservative Democrats in the city of Yonkers.
In plotting to snatch the county's top political job, Richard L. Brodsky faced three mountainous obstacles. He had to become better known, overcome a tough primary opponent, and persuade Westchester residents that their sense of well-being was an illusion.
In some ways, those goals clashed with one another to his disadvantage. The primary fight with County Clerk Andrew J. Spano, he said yesterday, cost him $185,000 that he could have spent against Mr. O'Rourke. In the waning days, he had almost no money to counter Mr. O'Rourke's television advertisements depicting Mr. Brodsky as a spendthrift "Liberal to a Fault."
Yet, Mr. Brodsky came close enough to capturing the executive's prize that he has demanded a recount.
The issues that he hit repeatedly were high taxes, ebbing jobs, and the ethical blindness of Mr. O'Rourke, issues that, in a sour economy, were far more resonant than four years ago. Mr. Brodsky did well in such upscale bastions as Scarsdale and Mamaroneck, which have also suffered from corporate layoffs, and he did better than four years ago in White Plains, Ossining and Eastchester. Mr. O'Rourke never racked up the margin predicted by a Gannett Suburban Newspaper poll of 11 percentage points.
 
'By and Large Satisfied'
 Still, Mr. Brodsky's efforts were not enough to erode Mr. O'Rourke's advantages as the incumbent who still runs a county with a AAA bond rating and a 5.7 percent unemployment rate.
"People are by and large satisfied with the way things are," said Dr. Anthony A. Cupaiuolo, director of the Michaelian Institute of Public Policy and Management at Pace University.
Mr. Delaney, Mr. O'Rourke's campaign manager, said Mr. O'Rourke neutralized Mr. Brodsky's criticisms on taxes by pointing out that Mr. Brodsky was not above suspicion in this area, having voted 48 times for tax increases as a legislator.
"When taxes and spending are the key issue, there's no question that people believe Republicans handle it better," he said.
That observation was echoed by voters in the affluent town of Rye.
"As far as I'm concerned, taxes are the issue, and a Republican will keep them down," said Roger Clark, a retired sales manager.
Time and again, Mr. Brodsky attacked Mr. O'Rourke as tired and corrupt. But, Mr. O'Rourke observed at a news conference yesterday that Mr. Brodsky did not have enough of a countywide identity to make such nasty charges without developing a venomous image that finally cost him.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thomas S. Gulotta, the Republican Nassau County Executive, being greeted yesterday by members of his staff in Mineola, L.I., after Mr. Gulotta's re-election victory on Tuesday. He defeated his Democratic challenger with 51 percent of the vote. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times) (pg. B1); The winning Republican slate in Westchester celebrating after their victories on Tuesday night. From left were Leonard N. Spano, County Clerk; Jeanine Pirro, District Attorney; Andrew P. O'Rourke, County Executive, and Anthony J. Colavita, chairman of the county's Republican Committee. (Susan Harris for The New York Times) (pg. B10)
 
Charts: "Results: On Long Island and In The Region" lists election results for Clerk, D.A., County Executives, Supervisor, Comptroller and White Plains Mayor (pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NASSAU COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; COUNTY EXECUTIVES; MAYORS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS ; ELECTION RESULTS COUNTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BONDS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); CITIES (72%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); TAX INCREASES (64%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH ; O'ROURKE, ANDREW P (COUNTY EXEC); BRODSKY, RICHARD L (ASSEMBLYMAN)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



94 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
7 More in '94

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
To Tip O'Neill's dictum, "all politics is local," let me append Safire's Corollary: all local politics is now national.
Looking from the bottom up: a local election in a television age has a national impact. Looking from the top down: the national fixation on Presidential fortunes has an effect on the decisions of voters in local elections. 
 In the urban base of what became the G.O.P.'s 1993 triple play, Republican Rudy Giuliani was squeaking past Mayor David Dinkins on the crime issue. Then Bill and Hillary Clinton came in and turned it into an open "race race" with his inflammatory "too many of us are still too unwilling to vote for people who are different than we are."
That grated on my ears (he meant to say "people who are different from ourselves") but grated more coarsely on the ears of white New York liberals, fed up with a passive Mayor, who did not appreciate the President lecturing them about how their anti-incumbent votes were motivated by racism. In this way, Clinton nationalized the city's election and magnified Democratic defeat.
In Virginia, a stone's throw from D.C., Republican George Allen ran against the "Clinton-Wilder-Robb" set, the Clinton tax double-cross, and the Clinton government-controlled health plan. Local Democrats, afflicted with voter distaste at their national policies, were reduced to running against fear of the religious right; they succeeded only in knocking off a novice running for Lieutenant Governor. In the State House, Governor Allen will help steer Virginia rightward in national races.
New Jersey was the big one. The defeat of Democratic Gov. Jim Florio was rooted in the most national of issues -- tax increases -- and had the greatest impact. Liberals were saying for weeks that New Jersey was the key battleground this year because they thought a Florio victory would endorse Clinton's tax hikes.
But the winner, Christie Whitman, promised tax cuts for economic growth, and her victory is a blow to Clintonism. Her campaign strategist, Ed Rollins, was a card-carrying Reaganite; Florio's James Carville is Clinton's political guru, who should change his favorite sign to "It's the taxation, stupid."
What do this week's three-for-three G.O.P. victories, added to three-for-three earlier this year, mean for national politics? The impossible is now possible: control of the U.S. Senate is within reach, which would effectively end the creeping centralization of government power. Bob Dole's slogan is "Seven More in '94."
Looking especially vulnerable today are Democrats Robb of Virginia and Lautenberg of New Jersey. Wofford of Pennsylvania is shaky, as are Bingaman of New Mexico and Kohl of Wisconsin. Mathews of Tennessee, appointed to Al Gore's seat, is a G.O.P. target, as is Jim Sasser, who also runs in '94. (Tennessee Republicans are eager to have the Vice President nationalizing their campaigns; they think he can be as useful as Hillary Clinton was to Dinkins and as Janet Reno was in campaigning for Florio.)
Democratic open seats are Riegle's in Michigan, Metzenbaum's in Ohio and DeConcini's in Arizona; Republicans have a good shot at all three. Of open seats now Republican -- Durenberger's in Minnesota, Danforth's in Missouri and Wallop's in Wyoming -- only Minnesota is considered vulnerable.
What can turn a possibility into a reality? Events like Election Day 1993, for starters; as Dole says: "Winning builds confidence. Winning helps us raise money and recruit candidates." Losing works the other way: In D.C. today, it's hard to tell a Democrat from a Redskins fan.
If Republicans, running as candidates of change, upset the status quo in the Senate in 1994, the recent statist drift would be corrected. Clinton would not be finished -- the results of his foreign economic policy might save his political life -- but all eyes would be on the likely Republican challengers.
California Gov. Pete Wilson is on the comeback trail; if re-elected in '94, he and Jack Kemp -- both reach-out conservatives -- will be front-runners in the primaries, putting the party in a win-win position. What about Bob Dole, who might then be majority leader -- would he give up that power to run for President?
Dreamily, Dole says: "That would be a nice worry to have."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY STATE HOUSE PRESS (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); TAX LAW (86%); LIBERALISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (70%); TAX INCREASES (70%); RACE & RACISM (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); HERB KOHL (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); JEFF BINGAMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



95 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: No Boon From Yankees

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has never lost his boyhood love for baseball, but he stands on shaky ground when he uses an economic argument for keeping the Yankees in New York. 
 An eight-year study of 47 United States cities found that those with professional sports teams lag behind those that create a wider set of incentives for all private industry. The Lake Forest College study and others show pitfalls when governments give special breaks to pro sports.
Pro teams produce mainly low-paying seasonal jobs. A small group of owners and players tend to benefit. Players and owners often live elsewhere. Money the public spends watching pro teams would be spent in other local leisure activities.
There are other reasons, including a spiritual one, for keeping the Yankees in the Bronx.
 
FRED BRATMAN
New York, Oct. 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SPORTS (87%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SEASONAL WORKERS (53%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); BRATMAN, FRED

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



96 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: THE 1993 ELECTIONS: News Analysis;
The Tide Turns on Voter Turnout

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
For all the predictions of epochal changes that Rudolph W. Giuliani's election will mean at City Hall, his historic victory resulted much less from an overwhelming change in voters' attitudes and more from tiny shifts in the voting blocs that he and David N. Dinkins assembled in 1989.
Those shifts, coupled with higher turnout in white neighborhoods -- especially on Staten Island -- and the failure in some black neighborhoods to capitalize on registration increases, enabled Mr. Giuliani to amass a 44,000-vote margin. 
 Surveys of voters leaving the polls found that compared to 1989, support for Mr. Dinkins eroded most among whites -- especially college graduates, self-described moderates and Protestants -- and to a lesser degree among Hispanic New Yorkers.
But shifts among other groups were negligible or statistically insignificant. For example, the share of Jewish voters for Mr. Dinkins declined from 35 percent to 32 percent, of white liberals from 51 percent to 50 percent, and of Democrats from 69 percent to 67 percent.
 
Similar Patterns
 In fact, voting patterns were so similar across the city that even though district lines have changed somewhat since 1989, a map showing the candidates' relative strengths on Tuesday is almost an exact copy of the 1989 map. The numbers within the districts are similar, too. In the integrated and liberal Flatbush-Park Slope area Mr. Dinkins received 13,925 votes on Tuesday, as against 14,143 in 1989. On the Upper West Side he received 25,916, compared with 23,287 four years ago.
Still, in every borough, Mr. Dinkins received fewer votes than he had four years ago. And in every borough except the Bronx, Mr. Giuliani collected more than his 1989 totals.
Nearly half of Mr. Giuliani's victory margin could be attributed to his gains on Staten Island, where turnout was bolstered by a referendum to secede from the city whose mayor the island helped elect. More than 20,000 additional voters turned out on Staten Island compared to 1989, and Mr. Giuliani's vote total in the borough increased by nearly the same amount.
"Rudy," said Robert Shrum, Mr. Dinkins's media adviser, "is the mayor of Staten Island."
 
Two Political Milestones
 To become mayor-elect, Mr. Giuliani achieved two political milestones: He is the first Republican in modern times to win what amounted to a two-way race; and, in striking contrast to two other Republicans, Fiorello H. La Guardia and John V. Lindsay, Mr. Giuliani ran to the right ideologically of his Democratic rival.
But it is arguable whether his election signaled either a sudden seismic shift or the precursor of an enduring conservative trend in a city where liberal nostrums have historically been preached if not always practiced. Moreover, a shift of fewer than 25,000 votes, or less than 2 percent of the total, would have produced the opposite result.
In many ways, Mr. Giuliani eked out his victory by reassembling and broadening the traditional coalition that has elected every Democratic mayor of New York for decades -- except for the one he defeated Tuesday, Mr. Dinkins, as well as the last Republican, Mr. Lindsay. For decades New York City politics was defined by competition between candidates identified with Jewish constituencies and others identified with white Catholic voters. But in the 1970's the two constituencies joined. "Both groups were in a long-term relative decline and race was a factor that drove them together," said John H. Mollenkopf, a political science professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center.
 
The Koch Coalition
 In his book "A Phoenix in the Ashes," Mr. Mollenkopf wrote that Mr. Dinkins's campaign four years ago represented an unusual black-led, biracial, multiethnic insurgent coalition. And Mr. Mollenkopf warned presciently that "the Dinkins coalition may founder, as have many of its reform predecessors, on its internal contradictions, opening the way to efforts to restore the Koch coalition in some new form."
On Tuesday, Mr. Mollenkopf said, "the white ethnic and Jewish outer-borough base that you would call the core of the Koch coalition is certainly what provided the bulk of the Giuliani coalition as well."
"Latinos and Jews did not desert Dinkins in big numbers," Mr. Mollenkopf said. "The differential in turnouts accounts for a lot."
Raymond B. Harding, the Liberal Party leader, said, "The difference between the Giuliani coalition last time and this time is that you had an add-on this year that comes as a reaction to the Dinkins record: Bob Wagner, Ed Koch, Ed Costikyan, and the independent wing of the Democratic Party that they represent."
 
The Can-Do Mantra
 In one sense, voters rejected ideology -- liberal ideology, in this case -- for the can-do mantra that also resonated in the recent victories of two other Republicans -- Richard Riordan in Los Angeles and Edward G. Rendell in Philadelphia -- as well as of two of Mr. Giuliani's predecessors in New York, Mr. Lindsay and Edward I. Koch.
Mr. Giuliani campaigned on a platform of competence for a change, much like La Guardia, Mr. Lindsay and Mr. Koch had in challenging the dominant Democratic machine. Mr. Giuliani won by defeating an incumbent who presided during a recession and who was unable to transform the election from a referendum on his record to a referendum on his rival.
Also, while Mr. Dinkins's race was undoubtedly a factor in driving potential challengers from the primary field, the fact that he is black probably cost him votes, too. And in spite of registration gains, black voters in some districts appeared to have turned out in smaller proportions than in 1989.
In Central Harlem, Mr. Dinkins received 29,464 votes compared to 30,560 four years ago; in Bedford-Stuyvesant, his vote declined to 26,714 from 28,384. Mr. Giuliani's vote grew in Forest Hills, Queens, from 25,519 to 29,288 and in the Canarsie section of Brooklyn from 23,343 to 30,320.
 
'Demography Was Destiny'
 While the outcome was markedly different, the major components of Mr. Dinkins's coalition appear to have become frayed rather than unglued.
"Demography was destiny in a way that it almost was four years ago," Mr. Shrum said, and in a way that, given declining numbers of older whites and growing proportions of younger black and Hispanic New Yorkers, suggest Mr. Giuliani's potential vulnerabilities in 1997.
"The coalition that brought David Dinkins into office remains very much intact," Leland T. Jones, the Mayor's spokesman, said early yesterday, acknowledging, though, that it no longer encompassed enough voters to constitute a majority.
"Hopefully," Mr. Jones said wearily, "four years from tonight it will be enough."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 5, 1993, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A news analysis article yesterday about shifts in voting patterns in the New York City mayoral election misstated the party affiliation of Mayor Edward G. Rendell of Philadelphia. He is a Democrat, not a Republican.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Central Harlem, Mayor David N. Dinkins received 29,464 votes compared to 30,560 four years ago. Voters lined up to cast ballots on Tuesday at a polling station at Public School 175 in Harlem. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "How They Voted" lists percentage of white, black and hispanics who voted for Mayor, Public Advocate and Comptroller (Source: Voter Research Survey); "Pockets of Strength" shows degree to which one candidate's vote exceeded the others in each of the city's Assembly Districts.
 
Chart: "A Portrait of New York City Voters"

% of	Total		1989		1993	 	1989	1993		Dinkins	Giuliani	Dinkins	Giuliani	100%	100%	Total	50%	48%	49%	51%	56	56	White	27	71	21	77	28	28	Black	91	7	95	5	13	13	Hispanic	65	34	60	38	2	2	Asian*	 	 	 	 	47	43	Men	48	50	40	57	53	57	Women	53	45	53	46	19	20	18-29 years old	54	45	58	41	36	33	30-44 years old	52	46	54	44	23	25	45-59 years old	54	43	45	53	22	21	60 and older	41	57	31	67	9	7	Not a high school graduate	61	38	65	35	28	26	High school graduates	54	44	43	56	25	26	Some college education	51	47	49	49	20	24	College graduates	49	50	46	52	18	26	Postgraduate education	46	52	47	53	27	24	All Protestants	71	27	71	25	8	6	White Protestants	27	70	17	79	39	45	All Catholics	38	60	30	68	24	29	White Catholics	18	80	12	86	18	17	Jewish	35	63	32	68			Family Income +	 	 	 	 	9	14	Under $15,000	61	38	64	33	16	20	$15,000-$29,999	60	37	57	41	tk	30	$30,000-$49,999	tk	tk	45	53	19	28	$50,000-$99,999	42	56	37	62	5	8	$100,000 and over	19	80	35	64	29	30	Liberals	69	30	65	34	39	43	Moderates	48	50	43	56	23	27	Conservatives	33	65	34	63	18	17	Republicans	17	81	6	92	57	61	Democrats	69	30	67	33	21	--	Independents	34	62	--	--	--	22	Independent and others	--	--	30	66			Ethnic indentification:	 	 	 	 	23	22	African	92	8	97	2	11	9	Irish	27	69	19	78	12	17	Italian	23	76	11	88	13	18	Eastern European	37	61	28	71	9	9	Puerto Rican	67	33	61	37			Voted in 1989 for	 	 	 	 	50	51	David Dinkins	100		76	23	48	28	Rudolph Giuliani		100	3	97	--	11	First time voter	--	--	47	50	48	42	Union household	54	44	50	48	--	22	Unemployed	--	--	64	33	--	55	Married	--	--	39	59	--	7	Gay/lesbian/bisexual	--	--	68	31	14	16	White liberals	51	47	50	48	10	9	Black liberals	95	5	97	3	23	25	White moderates	22	76	15	84	11	13	Black moderates	94	5	93	7	15	16	White conservatives	10	86	2	95	5	6	Black conservatives	86	13	96	3	24	27	White Democrats	39	59	35	64	23	24	Black Democrats	97	2	98	2	16	16	White, H.S. grad or less	20	78	12	87	14	10	Black, H.S. gr or less	93	7	97	3	12	13	White ome college education	19	77	15	84	8	9	Black some college education	90	8	94	5	13	14	White college grad	35	64	19	77	4	7	Black college grad	97	2	93	7	14	13	Whites postgrad	36	62	41	58	3	2	Blacks postgrad*	 	 	 	 	10	8	White, 18-29 years old	29	68	22	78	5	8	Black, 18-29 years old	90	9	95	4	20	16	White, 30-44 years old	30	68	27	70	10	11	Black, 30-44 years old	89	8	95	5	11	15	White, 45-59 years old	23	72	19	79	8	7	Black, 45-59 years old	94	6	95	5	15	17	White, 60 and older	23	75	17	81	5	3	Black, 60 and older	94	4	91	9	27	27	White men	26	71	20	77	29	30	White women	27	71	22	77	13	9	Black men	87	10	92	8	15	19	Black women	95	4	96	4	
 
1993 data were collected by Voter Research and Surveys based on questionnaires completed by 1,788 voters leaving 40 polling places throughout New York City on election day. 1989 data were based on a survey conducted by The New York Times and WCBS-TV News with questionnaires from 2,170 voters. Independent and other include Liberal, Conservatie and Right to Life; those options were not offered in 1989. Categories left blank were not asked in 1989.
 
* Insufficent data available.
 
+ Income categories in 1989 were: Under $12,500, $12,500-$24,999, $25,000-$49,999, $50,000-$100,000 and over $100,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; STATEN ISLAND (NYC) UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION RESULTS VOTERS & VOTING (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TRENDS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); REFERENDUMS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); RACE & RACISM (71%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



97 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Datapoint Names a Returnee Its President

BYLINE: By KATHRYN JONES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Nov. 3

 BODY:
The Datapoint Corporation today named Doris D. Bencsik, a 35-year veteran of the computer industry, its president and chief operating officer.
Mrs. Bencsik, 62, rejoined Datapoint, a computer networking company based in San Antonio, in February as executive vice president and chief operating officer after five years as a consultant. She previously held senior management positions at the company and shared the president's post before leaving in 1987. 
 She has also held management positions at the Data General Corporation, Honeywell Inc. and RCA.
Datapoint's previous president, John Harrison, who largely ran the company from offices in Europe, left in October 1992 to pursue other business interests.
Mrs. Bencsik's appointment caps a year of restructuring in an effort to turn around a string of losses and revenue slides at Datapoint, which was known as a technology innovator in the 1960's and 70's.
 
Getting a 'Second Chance'
 In a telephone interview, she said her first objective was to rebuild Datapoint's presence in the United States market, particularly in the growing area of video conferencing and video networks.
"It isn't often that a company gets a second chance," Mrs. Bencsik said.
Asher B. Edelman, a New York investor, took over Datapoint in 1985 and is the company's chairman and chief executive.
Datapoint lost $11.3 million in the 1993 fiscal year, which ended July 31, after revenues fell sharply, to $208.3 million from $255.2 million a year earlier. Most of the decline resulted from a strong dollar and a weak economy in Europe, where Datapoint has major customers.
Datapoint also took $6.2 million in restructuring charges and has been repositioning itself to sell new products, including desktop video communications systems.
Mrs. Bencsik said that one reason she returned was to be part of the company's growing focus on video.
"I rode the computer market for 35 years and it was a wild ride," she recalled. "Now I get a chance to do it again in video."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: HON (NYSE) (71%); HON (LSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (93%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (71%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (71%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: DATAPOINT CORP DATAPOINT CORP (93%); DATA GENERAL CORP (71%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: DATAPOINT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (92%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (76%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (71%); NEW PRODUCTS (68%); US DOLLAR (67%); 

PERSON: BENCSIK, DORIS D; JONES, KATHRYN ANN LIVERMORE (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



98 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: Race, Reform and Urban Voters

BYLINE: By Nicholas Lemann; Nicholas Lemann, a national correspondent for The Atlantic Monthly, is author of "The Promised Land."

 BODY:
With startling rapidity, four of Am erica's five biggest cities have replaced black mayors with whites: first, Chicago, four years ago, then Philadelphia, then Los Angeles and this week New York. It's irresistibly tempting to see a big trend here, and indeed pronouncements of the end of an era are filling the air.
The era that has supposedly ended is that of "old" black politics -- stressing civil rights, welfare and other traditional liberal policies. Now, the argument goes, the cities have deteriorated to the point where voters want pragmatic, effective government and are willing to vote for whoever can provide it -- "new" (meaning centrist) black politicians, or, as in our biggest cities, white politicians. David Dinkins lost because, by presenting himself as a race-relations expert rather than as a tough manager, he epitomized the old black politics. 
 Watch out for this theory. It misstates the true nature of black politics and urban politics. And as a guide to future events, it is about as useful as the prediction, widespread when Mr. Dinkins was elected, that New York would never again have a white mayor.
The boom years for African-American politicians were the early 1970's, when the lowest annual increase in the number of black elected officials was 14 percent. Two large historical forces drove the increases: the legal enfranchisement of black voters in the South, thanks to the Voting Rights Act, and the massive black migration from the countryside to the cities, which produced large concentrations of black voters.
Both of these forces have long since played themselves out. There is no vast untapped pool of African-Americans who can't or don't vote. For the last decade, the annual rate of increase in the number of black elected officials has usually been well below 5 percent.
The overwhelming majority of black politicians represent black-majority districts. Outside of a few all-black small towns, the only place where a majority of elected officials are black is the District of Columbia, which is mostly black. Only four states have an officialdom that is more than 10 percent black: Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi and South Carolina -- all part of the old Southern Black Belt. The Congressional Black Caucus has only two members (out of 40) from white-majority districts.
Obviously, white-majority areas should never be thought of as places that will easily elect black representatives. All four of the big cities that used to have black mayors have white majorities. New York never got much above one-quarter black and Los Angeles topped out at about one-sixth.
What generated the feeling that cities like New York and L.A. would ordinarily have black mayors was an idea that all urban "people of color" would stick together politically and look to African-Americans as their natural leaders. This was the premise behind Jesse Jackson's Rainbow Coalition -- but it hasn't proved true.
In Chicago, the Latino population holds the balance of power because the city is about 40 percent black and 40 percent white. Yet it has thrown in its lot with the white mayor, Richard Daley, rather than his black opponents.
Even in black-majority big cities, it's extremely rare to find a fiery "race man" becoming mayor, because the business establishment usually wields power far beyond the small number of votes it can deliver. Marion Barry of Washington, probably the closest approximation, won only because the endorsement of The Washington Post made him respectable. He became confrontational after he was elected.
All of the former black mayors of the four big cities were the kinds of minority politicians white voters found nonthreatening. Of David Dinkins, Tom Bradley of Los Angeles, Harold Washington of Chicago and Wilson Goode of Philadelphia, only Mr. Washington had any reputation among blacks as a race leader. But before his election, he had spent a long career as a loyal member of the Daley machine, as had his father before him. Mr. Bradley was a veteran of the police force, Mr. Goode was a municipal bureaucrat with a degree from the Wharton School and Mr. Dinkins was an accommodationist who spent years rising through the ranks of the New York Democratic apparatus.
David Dinkins had the added advantage of running in what is arguably the only big, non-black-majority American city with a liberal electorate. The general rule is that the whiter the jurisdiction, the more conservative its black representative will have to be. It's no accident that the only Republican member of the Congressional Black Caucus, Gary Franks of Connecticut, is also the caucus member with the fewest black constituents.
For at least a century, one of the consistent voices in municipal politics has come from the "reform" or "good government" element: people from the middle and upper classes who long for a clean, efficient government that will foster business development. Traditionally, the reformers' opponents were the Democratic machines, which represented blue-collar and poor voters, who were intensely ethnicity-conscious in their politics.
The main policy difference between these two groups was that the "goo-goos" (as the machine derisively called them) saw government purely as a purveyor of services -- police, housing, parks -- while the machines saw government as having two missions: performing services and providing jobs and contracts to people who couldn't find economic opportunity in the private sector. It was in the course of doing the latter that the machines committed sins like graft and featherbedding that horrified reformers.
Reformers have historically realized that most urban voters weren't in their camp, so the only way to get city government to focus solely on providing services efficiently would be to depoliticize it. There have been two main ways of doing this. One is replacing patronage hiring with a civil service system. (Nothing better symbolizes the difference in worldviews between the reformers and the machines than the jailing of Boston's future mayor, James Michael Curley, in 1903, for taking the civil service exam under his constituents' names so they could get city jobs.) The other is chartering city governments in which a hired professional manager runs things and the elected mayor is paid so little that no professional politician would take the job.
To believe that Mayor-elect Rudolph Giuliani and Mayors Richard Riordan of Los Angeles and Edward Rendell of Philadelphia sit at the head of a fundamentally reform-oriented urban electorate requires ignoring all the lessons of city political history.
It is true that many municipal school boards, police forces and housing departments need to be cleaned up. It is also true that politics provides enough of a market test that mayors who don't run their cities well (like Mayors Dinkins and Goode) often get turned out of office.
Still, city voters remain poorer and more ethnically unmelted than the national average and therefore more likely to have the dual-role view of government as a source of jobs and power as well as services. Mayors who only provide efficient services are going to find their constituents curiously dissatisfied. Big cities don't have a voting majority of people who can can afford to look to government to pick up garbage and put out fires but not to give them jobs and a sense of ethnic pride.
One reason Richard Daley of Chicago looks like a mayor-for-life is that, as a child of the machine, he instinctively balances efficient governance with ethnic and patronage concerns. Rudy Giuliani, who has spent his career in moral crusades rather than administration, is not going to keep a majority of New York voters happy for very long if all he does is try to clean up the city. Urban politics is never going to get that new.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BLACK BELT SYSTEMS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BLACKS (IN US); MAYORS; CIVIL RIGHTS; WELFARE (US) VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); ELECTION LAW (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); CAUCUSES (76%); 

PERSON: LEMANN, NICHOLAS DAVID NORMAN DINKINS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993



99 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Gore and Perot Are Set to Debate Trade Accord

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LEXINGTON, Ky., Nov. 4

 BODY:
The White House dared Ross Perot today to debate Vice President Al Gore on the North American Free Trade Agreement before the House votes on it in two weeks, and Mr. Perot quickly accepted.
The challenge was publicly issued by President Clinton as he campaigned here for the accord, which Mr. Perot has long denounced as an ill-conceived deal that would send American jobs flowing to Mexico. 
 "The Vice President has challenged him to a debate on Larry King," Mr. Clinton told reporters here. "Let's see if he takes it."
Mr. Perot, visiting Washington to stump against the agreement, not only accepted but also quickly proposed three debates, as well as their times and locations: one in Tampa, Fla., on Sunday, a second in Detroit next Wednesday, and a third in Seattle on Nov. 15, two days before the House vote.
In response, a spokesman for Mr. Gore said tonight that his office was still working to arrange the dates and locations.
Mr. Perot said the White House challenge was a "desperate move" made because "they've tried everything to sell the deal, and they can't."
The White House press secretary, Dee Dee Myers, was asked whether Mr. Clinton's challenge was giving Mr. Perot credibility on the trade issue. "He has credibility," she replied, "and he's playing on people's fears."
The quick exchange of challenge and acceptance came on a day when Mr. Clinton urged laborers here to pressure their lawmakers to back the accord, which over the next 10 years would eliminate all tariffs and other trade barriers between the United States, Mexico and Canada.
Speaking to 900 workers from five Kentucky factories that manufacture high-tech products, Mr. Clinton said fear of losing jobs to Mexico was irrational, unfounded and almost unpatriotic.
"American workers are now the most productive in the world," he said. "You've got to believe in yourselves. We can do this. We can compete. We can win if we have access to the markets. That's what this gives us."
The House vote on the pact is only 13 days away. If the accord is approved then, quick passage is likely in the Senate, where it has more support.
But in the House, most members of the President's own party, heeding concerns of a job drain to Mexico, remain opposed. And with the outcome of the vote still very much uncertain, Mr. Clinton today took his case before an audience gathered in a town-hall format and urged pressure on lawmakers.
 
Friendly Reception for Clinton
 This was hardly a typical audience, however. The location was a Lexmark factory that is dependent on exports of its computers and laser printers to Mexico and Canada, and that dependency was reflected in the polite, friendly questions to the President.
One theme sounded by Mr. Clinton was that in a stagnant economy, the only way American workers can maintain their jobs and increase their wages is by selling more products to more places. That is possible, he said, only with free trade.
Referring to Mr. Perot, who campaigned against the agreement during his run for the Presidency last year, Mr. Clinton urged the assembled workers to ignore "that one fellow who talks about the giant sucking sound" of jobs' moving to Mexico.
In Washington, Mr. Perot, appearing with about a dozen House Republicans, stood before a bank of television cameras and hundreds of tourists in the parking lot on the east side of the Capitol and denounced the accord. He promised that his supporters would stand behind lawmakers who vote against it.
That was not the only rear-guard action in Washington that Mr. Clinton had to fight even as he went on the offensive here in Lexington. Another stemmed from sentiment on Capitol Hill that the defeat of Democratic candidates in leading gubernatorial and mayoral elections on Tuesday should prompt already jittery Democratic lawmakers to vote against the accord so as not to further alienate skeptical voters, to say nothing of organized labor.
"That's ludicrous," Mr. Clinton testily told reporters here. "That's just a Washington story. That's ridiculous. Nafta wasn't an issue in any of those races."
The President also placed new emphasis on an argument that other members of his Administration have frequently made in support of the accord: that what is at stake in the House vote is not only freer trade relations with Mexico and Canada but also America's effort to win trade concessions from Japan and Europe.
He said the still-uncompleted world trade accord -- the new round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade -- would bring more investment to the United States from Europe and Japan than would flow into the nation from Canada and Mexico as a result of the North American agreement. And more investment, he said, would mean more jobs for Americans.
The worldwide agreement would lower or eliminate tariffs on a wide range of goods and services. But Mr. Clinton said that in order to conclude it, the United States had to win concessions from Europe and Japan. He argued that Nafta would pressure the Europeans and the Japanese to make those concessions, out of a fear that otherwise they would be shut out of the huge North American market that Nafta would create.
If Congress rejects the North American accord, Mr. Clinton argued, the Europeans and the Japanese will have less pressure to make the concessions, unpopular in their own countries, that are needed to complete the world accord.
The President also said Congressional rejection of the North American agreement would stem a trend toward free-market democracy in the Western Hemisphere.
"There are a lot of people who have criticized the Nafta agreement, coming out of the labor movement particularly, on the grounds that there are violations of human rights in Mexico or the Mexican system is not as democratic as ours is," Mr. Clinton said. "It is different from ours and not as open and democratic as ours. But it is becoming more democratic. Again, I think if we shut them off from us, it is likely to become less democratic."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore and Ross Perot are to debate on the North American Free Trade Agreement before Congress votes on it. Mr. Perot is shown at the Capitol, where he denounced the pact yesterday. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. A26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MEXICO; CANADA UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; DEBATING TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); APPROVALS (69%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; PEROT, ROSS; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) AL GORE (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



100 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1580 words

HEADLINE: A Stronger Yen Is Hurting Sales Of Japan's Cars

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 4

 BODY:
The Big Three may still be complaining in Washington and Tokyo that prices of Japanese cars and trucks are suspiciously low. But Japanese prices have risen faster than those of American auto makers, and in the marketplace the Americans have not hesitated to crow about why. 
"It's the exchange rate, you simpleton," declares a television advertisement promoting relatively cheap Oldsmobiles.
Despite their best efforts, Japanese auto makers' combined share of the American car and truck market is slipping. In fact, over the course of the 1993 model year, which ended in September with 13.6 million vehicles sold, the Japanese companies lost almost a full percentage point of the market -- their biggest loss in a decade -- to 23.7 percent. The Big Three gained a point and a half over all, to 73.4 percent.
HB>A $3,300 Disadvantage
 For the Japanese, the timing of the strong yen could not be worse. It comes as a torpid car market and rising labor costs in Japan are slicing into profits, and the Big Three are selling much-improved cars and trucks. In October, several Japanese auto makers saw sales of their imports plunge even as sales of their North American-built vehicles rose, reflecting in part the burden of the higher yen. Vehicles built in Japan and sold in the United States now cost about $3,300 more than comparably equipped counterparts built by the Big Three, according to a study by Ronald A. Glantz, an auto industry analyst for Dean Witter.
 As a result, the Japanese are rushing to increase production in North America. But that is a long-term solution. In the short term, Japanese auto makers are anxiously turning to several strategies -- from shrinking dealer markups to offering fewer versions of their models -- to hold down prices and remain competitive.
"It's a very serious problem for the Japanese," said Susan Jacobs, president of Jacobs & Associates, a consulting firm in Rutherford, N.J. The Honda Motor Company and others made inroads by selling high-quality vehicles at reasonable prices, she pointed out. "Now they risk a kind of sticker shock when owners come through the door of a dealership," she added.
 All of that adds up to Japan's biggest setback yet in the American market. "There is not a short-term, quick answer to the dollar-yen appreciation," said J. Davis Illingworth, the Toyota Motor Corporation's vice president for American sales, who predicted that the price gap would not close "in the foreseeable future." His hope is that consumers will pay a premium because of Toyota's reputation for high-quality vehicles.
 
 
Sales Pattern Changing
 Many analysts, dealers and car buyers are skeptical, and last month's car sales confirm their doubts. The improved quality of American cars and the widening price difference, combined with a sense that buying American supports the domestic economy, is starting to coax Americans out of Japanese cars and into Detroit's products.
"I loved my Honda," said Cheryl Wiener, a saleswoman in Randolph, Mass., who bought her Honda Accord in 1986, after headaches with a Buick Regal. "I swore I would never drive another American car, they were so awful," she said.
So when it came time to replace her beloved Accord this year, Ms. Wiener started hunting in Japanese showrooms. She drove the new Accord, the Toyota Camry, the Nissan Altima and the Mazda 626. "Nothing really turned me on," she said.
Then she drove a Dodge Intrepid -- and bought it, to her own astonishment. "Never, never in a million years would I have thought it," she said. But, she added, "I felt I was getting a lot more for my money with the Intrepid."
While clearly pleased with their sharpening competitive edge, the Big Three still argue that Japanese auto makers' prices do not reflect their costs. "The prices should reflect the strengthening yen, and in large measure they clearly don't," Alexander J. Trotman, the new chairman, president and chief executive of the Ford Motor Company, said in a recent interview. "We're going to put pressure on that issue."
The Japanese companies say their seven American assembly plants have given them a hedge against the rising yen, enabling them to limit price increases. But domestic production alone has not solved the problem.
These are some of the steps taken to control price increases:
*Spreading price increases over the model year.
*Lumping the increases onto less-price-sensitive luxury models, while trying to control the prices on bread-and-butter cars, like the Accord.
*Raising wholesale prices paid by dealers faster than sticker prices, leaving less bargaining room for shoppers.
*Cutting costs by reducing the variations within model lines while increasing the proportion of shared parts.
*Making more options standard, so that consumers feel they are getting something extra.
 
 
 
Limited Price Increases
 The Japanese auto makers say such steps have helped to limit price increases on 1994 models despite a 20 percent rise in the yen against the dollar this year. At the Nissan Motor Company, recommended retail prices have risen 5.2 percent on a sales-weighted basis, compared with the final prices for 1993 model-year vehicles. At Honda, the increase is only 2.7 percent, while at Toyota it is a heftier 6.2 percent.
Those increases compare with a 2.2 percent rise at the Ford Motor Company. The Chrysler Corporation and the General Motors Corporation use a different standard for calculating changes, which is not comparable.
While the Big Three may call the price rises paltry, analysts point out that Japanese auto makers have a habit of raising prices two or more times in a model year. "If your intent is to raise your prices 14, 15 percent, you have to spread it out over the year," said Sean P. McAlinden, a research scientist for the Office for the Study of Automotive Transportation at the University of Michigan. Indeed, since announcing higher prices for its 1994 models, the Mazda Motor Corporation has already raised some of them even more.
 Despite the price increases so far, dealers in Japanese-made automobiles and trucks insist that interest in the new models is strong. "It's a little obstacle, but, hey, they always go up, and they always sell," said Bruce G. Ochs, the new-car sales manager for Fred Haas Toyota in Houston.
Japanese auto makers acknowledge that they can ill afford a bigger disparity between their prices and those of the Big Three. But they insist that they are not dumping their vehicles below the cost of making them.
"The way we were able to hold that increase is that the majority of the cars we sell here now are made here," said Thomas G. Elliott, executive vice president of American Honda Motor Company, which markets and distributes Honda cars in the United States. Not counting its Acura line of luxury cars, 69 percent of the Honda vehicles sold in America this year were made here.
At Honda, the increase varies with the origin of the car. Prices for the Acura line, for example, are rising by 4 to 5 percent because, Mr. Elliott said, "those models basically are built in Japan, and the effect of the yen is much more significant." In fact, the company is considering assembling some Acuras in America to offset the currency fluctuation.
 
 
Accord Holds the Line
 At the other extreme of Honda's price strategy is the brand-new Honda Accord, the base price of which is exactly the same as it was last year: $14,330. Most Accords sold in the United States are assembled at a Honda plant in Ohio. Further, 82 percent of the value of the new cars was contributed by American suppliers and workers, Honda says.
Honda has taken another step to reduce the costs of selling its vehicles here: it has cut its dealers' profit margins by 1 percent, to 15 percent.
Nissan also contends that its large amount of American production shields it from the rising yen. Of Nissan cars sold in this country so far this year, 63.6 percent were built in the United States, compared with 50 percent last year.
Unlike Honda, Nissan spread its increases across its product lines, raising prices on all of its vehicles at similar rates -- including its popular Altima sedan.
The base price of the Altima, which Nissan held steady in the 1993 model year, has climbed $740, from $12,999 to $13,739, an increase of 5.7 percent. Softening the blow, however, the new model features a passenger-side air bag as standard equipment.
 
 
6% Rise for Infiniti
 As with Acura, all of the luxury vehicles sold by Nissan's Infiniti division, are imported. Their price increase for 1994 is 6 percent.
Of the cars and trucks Toyota sells in the United States, more than 50 percent are made in this country. Still, Toyota's prices have jumped considerably. The base price of the Celica coupe, which was redesigned this year, rose 12.7 percent to $16,168, a jump of $1,820. But the base price of the 4-Runner, a sport-utility vehicle that was all new in 1990, rose only 3.4 percent, to $19,998.
Toyota's popular Camry sedan has also taken a big increase. The basic 1994 Camry sells for $16,438 -- $1,130, or 7.4 percent, more than in 1993.
In contrast, the base model of the 1994 Ford Taurus sells for $16,140.
The strong yen is also cutting into Toyota's product mix. The company plans to reduce the number of styling and equipment variations for individual models by 20 percent, while increasing the proportion of major parts shared across product lines to 30 percent.


GRAPHIC: With the yen rising against the dollar, Japanese car makers have tried to limit price rises in various ways, including building more in America.
 
1994 Honda Accord Sedan
 
Base price (DX model)
Photos/Chart: "The Difference a Year Makes"
 1993 -- $14,330
 1994 -- $14,330
 
1994 Nissan Altima Sedan
 
Base price (XE model)
 1993 -- $12,999
1994 -- $13,739
 
1994 Toyota Camry Sedan
 
Base price (DX model)
 1993 -- $15,308
 1994 -- $16,438
 
(Sources: Company Reports) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (80%); TM (NYSE) (80%); 7203 (TSE) (80%); HMC (NYSE) (63%); 7267 (TSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (80%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SALES; PRICES; PRODUCTION MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



101 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2472 words

HEADLINE: CONFLICT IS SEEN BETWEEN REGIONS IN HEALTH PLAN

BYLINE: By TOM REDBURN

 BODY:
While President Clinton's sweeping proposals would extend health care equally to all Americans, consumers and businesses in and around older urban areas like New York City are likely to find themselves paying substantially higher premiums for coverage than their counterparts elsewhere, and in many cases even higher than today.
At its core, the Clinton plan would create a web of regional "health alliances" to pool the purchasing power of consumers and negotiate on their behalf for lower prices for health insurance. The Clinton system would not necessarily produce new costs -- indeed it is intended to operate more efficiently than what Americans have now -- but it will almost certainly reshuffle the deck in who has to pay the costs of medical care.
 
Sharing Cities' Burdens
 The states, not Washington, are to create these new purchasing pools and decide their boundaries. What is critical, though, is that the regional alliances that include big cities with costly health care burdens will be forced to charge their residents more than those that do not. 
 Tens of billions of dollars are at stake within the New York area alone. The outcome, economists and health analysts predict, could be a free-for-all over medical costs, pitting cities against suburbs, rich versus poor, region against region. For various reasons, these conflicts may also be acute in Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Detroit and Philadelphia.
Indeed, just as citizens and officials within states now fight over the allocation of tax funds to schools, the costs that consumers in different areas will pay for health care are likely to become a major statehouse battleground.
 
Boundaries Are Crucial
 "How you draw the boundaries of these alliances will determine the distribution of risk and, in many respects, the distribution of costs," said Lawrence Brown, a professor of public health at Columbia University. "All sorts of hell would break loose once you throw this political football on the field."
No one knows how expensive health care would be under the new system. According to the White House, the average charge for health insurance under its plan would be about $1,900 a year for an individual and $4,300 for a family. But the White House itself acknowledges those charges would be higher in many urban areas, particularly in the Northeast. And, depending on how the plan is carried out, health care protection may vary in cost by 25 percent or more -- even in areas close to each other.
Administration planners point out that health care costs are already higher in most cities than in surrounding suburbs and rural areas. The Clinton plan would allow states, if they chose to, to redistribute those burdens more equitably, but it would also permit even wider disparities.
"These are decisions we are leaving up to the states," said Richard Kronick, a White House official who helped develop the health plan.
 
Community Rating
Spreading Costs Over Large Groups
 To make the alliances effective, the sweeping health care revision proposed by the White House would introduce, in every region of the nation, the insurance system known as community rating. That system is widely applauded by health experts, whatever their position on other reforms.
For most parts of the country, that would be a dramatic departure. As things stand, insurance companies generally charge each individual or family in a given group the same premium. But because groups can be as small as a single business, it may cost a lot more to insure one group than another. Indeed, in a small group one expensive condition like an AIDS case or a premature birth can sharply push up the charges for everyone.
Mr. Clinton would do away with that worry. A community rating system spreads the premiums equally among group members, but it expands the group to a much larger population. In a bigger, more diverse group, the extra costs of care for some people tend to average out.
 
Even Allocations
 The White House health plan takes community rating into a new dimension. A regional alliance could be as small as a single city and its suburbs or as large as an entire state. Within that boundary, the alliance would be required to allocate evenly -- without regard to age, sex, income or medical risk -- most of the costs of providing health coverage to all its non-elderly legal residents.
Each state would choose among three variations: a "single-payer" system, in which the state itself pays the providers directly; one all-embracing alliance; or several different ones that divide the state into separate regions. (The only exception would be large employers with more than 5,000 employees, and even they would have to follow many of the same rules.)
What you pay would no longer depend so much on what you get. Instead, it would be determined even more by where you live and who you are grouped with. A family in Mineola, L.I., for example, would pay one rate if Nassau County were joined at the hip with New York City and another -- almost certainly lower -- rate if it were not.
 
Expensive Problems in Cities
 Many expensive health problems -- AIDS, drug addiction, poverty -- are concentrated in cities. The Clinton program would shift much of the cost that is now borne by Federal taxpayers across the nation to ratepayers within each alliance.
At present, Medicaid pays medical bills for millions of poor people; in New York the state and city pay half those costs, and the Federal Government the rest. Under the Clinton plan, the poor and disabled would become full-fledged members of the health alliances, and their costs would go into the pool that every member shares. (Washington would sharply cut support for institutions now serving the poor, but most urban hospitals say they have little room to absorb the blow.)
 
Paying for the Poor
 To be sure, well-off people are already helping to pay the expense of treating the poor and the uninsured. Hospitals commonly charge paying customers more to make up for giving some people free treatment or for when the government refuses to pay the full cost of care for the indigent. But at present, that practice varies greatly from hospital to hospital, depending on its generosity in opening its doors to everyone.
Though this handicap would likely affect many urban areas, New York and the surrounding areas of New Jersey and Connecticut could be particularly vulnerable. The region tends to have fewer uninsured workers, primarily because unions have won substantial benefits that most employers have become accustomed to matching. As a result, the area will pick up less money from newcomers joining the system.
It also has more generous public health programs, which the Clinton law would prohibit states from cutting back. Moreover, New York and New Jersey include the most crowded and heavily regulated hospitals in the nation, leaving little room for savings from cutting fat.
 
The New York Example
Shifting the Burden To Specific Areas
 Some of these difficulties have already come to light in the new community rating system that New York State adopted last spring in a sweeping overhaul intended to equalize the costs of health insurance for small businesses and individuals.
Among other things, and as expected, it led to sharp increases in rates for many younger workers and more modest reductions at companies with older employees. White House officials acknowledge that the same thing would tend to happen under Mr. Clinton's plan.
But what was not so clear at the time is that the practice also tends to reallocate the burden of higher health care costs to specific locations.
In recent months, health insurers and managed care operators in both the New York City area and around Albany have been socked with unexpectedly stiff extra bills.
Here's how that reallocation works: The state requires that every insured person in a given pool be charged the same premium. But not every insurance company insures the same people, so a company whose clients are relatively healthy (say, mostly younger people) will make money charging the set premium, while another company with a sicker clientele (say, mostly elderly) will fall into the red. Under the New York system, the state requires the profitable company to pay some or most of its excess profits into a pool that it then uses to cover the other company's losses.
 
Payments Increasing
 When the system was introduced on April 1, those periodic payments were modest. Although still a relatively small share of the total cost of health coverage for New Yorkers, they now are starting to soar and are likely to keep climbing. For some they already equal as much as a fivefold increase from their initial contribution.
"Our charge went from $250,000 to $1.25 million literally overnight," said David S. Reynolds, president of Choice Care, a nonprofit managed care company that serves about 120,000 people on Long Island. "Nobody really knows where all the money went, but that is a burden our businesses and their employees will now have to carry."
The money is being used to help bail out Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, which as the insurer of last resort has a very expensive population and was particularly poorly managed. With New York State now carved into seven separate districts, the areas where Empire is active seem most likely to be affected by the higher fees.
 
'Never the Twain Shall Meet'
 While there are differences, the state's new insurance program provides a preview of the much greater upheaval that can be expected both in metropolitan New York and across the country if the far more ambitious Clinton plan becomes the law. Indeed, New York's experience with setting up its community rating system illustrates the political and economic fault lines that would be exposed in establishing the system of regional alliances.
"If we had our druthers there wouldn't have been any territorial distinctions," said Wayne Cotter, a spokesman for the state insurance department. "But that was politically unacceptable. You've got downstate, upstate, and never the twain shall meet."
Instead, the state followed the lines of the seven districts that the Blues had already established. Long Island, New York City and Rockland and Westchester Counties are in a single regional pool.
 
Drawing Boundaries
Plan Would Create Powerful Alliances
 The Clinton health plan, however, would encourage states to draw the alliance borders along the lines of what the Census Bureau defines as a Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Area. That area covers almost 18 million people in the New York region.
The New York metropolitan area faces particular problems because the Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Area actually embraces parts of all three states. The White House plan, however, would forbid alliances to cross state lines, complicating the job of businesses that would have to send insurance payments to a much greater variety of health care providers.
Inevitably, a tension is built-in. States would be allowed to build alliances that cover as much as the entire population, but they might prove particularly unwieldy. As an alternative, they could create smaller alliances, but that would produce wider cost disparities among them. The only firm rule would forbid splitting a Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area. In New York, Long Island, with 2.6 million people, is a primary statistical area separate from the rest of the metropolitan area. So is rural Orange County, with its mere 300,000.
 
Enforcing Controls
 Once under way, neighboring alliances could cooperate with each other; the people who belong to them would not be forbidden to go to doctors and hospitals outside their own region. Nonetheless, the Clinton alliances would still be large, powerful organizations with the authority to set rates for traditional fee-for-service care and, by limiting insurance premiums, enforce broad cost-containment controls over all health care providers within their domain.
"Regional health alliances would introduce another costly whole new layer of bureaucracy and regulation," said Dr. David B. Skinner, president of New York Hospital and generally a proponent of the President's plan. As originally proposed, the alliances would have been even more intrusive. But the Administration scaled back some features in response to criticism, and Congress is likely to trim even more. White House officials, however, say such complexity is unavoidable -- and unlikely to be any worse than the present system's rules and red tape.
"You can't rely on the private market alone." said Mr. Kronick, who helped develop the President's plan.
 
Avoiding Big City Costs
 Within the New York region, the Clinton plan calls for one alliance to collect payments from, at a minimum, the 8.5 million people living in New York City along with Westchester, Rockland and Putnam Counties. Indeed, the alliance could be considerably bigger, but nearby rural areas and Long Island would undoubtedly fight to establish their own alliances to avoid sharing big city costs.
New Jersey could create an alliance covering 5.7 million people from Bergen, Passaic and Sussex Counties in the north as far southeast as Ocean County along the shore. Or it could choose to divide the same area into four regions.
Connecticut, as far as the Clinton health planners are concerned, splits naturally into three regions, with the 830,000 people living around Bridgeport, Danbury, Norwalk and Stamford likely to make up a single alliance. But it, too, could allow smaller alliances.
 
Enlisting the Governors
 White House officials contend that the system of alliances would improve the delivery of health care and help slash costs, such as heavy overhead, that currently hit small businesses and the self-employed particularly hard. They argue that if health care providers offer standardized benefit packages within a region, confusion about coverage will be eliminated and administrative waste will be dramatically reduced, without a loss of flexibility in different localities.
But perhaps one unstated reason, analysts say, that Mr. Clinton chose a state-run approach is that it helps enlist the support of the nation's governors, who would play a big role in the new system.
In New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, state officials are beginning to explore how the system of alliances might work. But they all agree that it is likely to become embroiled quickly in traditional political feuds.
"I think there is a strong argument for having just one statewide alliance," said Dr. Bruce Siegel, New Jersey's Commissioner of Health. "But I imagine you would end up with at least three separate alliances, simply because different parts of the state will insist upon it."


GRAPHIC: Under the Clinton health program, states would create regional health alliances charged with:
 
Enrolling all eligible residents and serving as collective purchasing agents for employers and consumers at the local level.
 
Soliciting competitive bids from health plans and operating within an overall budget.
 
Establishing a rate schedule for fee-for-service providers.
 
Enforcing, within state guidelines, quality standards, financial solvency, and fair access to services by health plans. (pg. B8)
Chart: "HEALTH: How Alliances Would Work"

Map/Chart: "HEALTH CARE: Sharing the Cost" shows the Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Area that covers New York City and adjoining parts of New York State, New Jersey and Connecticut. It is made up of smaller "primary" statistical areas. The Clinton health plan would create regional "alliances" to shop for health coverage for everyone in their area. An alliance must cover at least one primary statistical area. What Long Islanders would pay for health insurance may well depend on whether they become part of a broad alliance that includes New York City or are allowed a separate alliance covering only Long Island. (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; URBAN AREAS; PRICES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); 

PERSON: REDBURN, TOM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



102 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Markets
Stock market investors' fears of rising interest rates heightened, forcing a sweeping sell-off. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 36.89 points, to 3,624.98, as anticipation rose that money would flee the stock market for higher-yielding bonds. [Page D1.] 
 The bond market's plunge over the last week has been a little like the fires in California: selling has swept through the market while investors watched, unable to stop it. With prices dropping, the 30-year bond's yield is now up to 6.17 percent. [D1.]
Gold prices jumped amid rumors that the financier George Soros was shifting from bonds to precious metals. [D13.] The dollar rose, gaining support from higher American interest rates. [D13.]
 
The Economy
Retailers reported inconsistent October sales figures, leaving merchants with few hints about how they will fare during the critical holiday season. Some said consumers were confused about the mixed signals given off by the economy. [D1.]
More signs emerged of a continuing if mixed recovery, with worker productivity increasing sharply, factory orders rising in September and new jobless claims falling last week. [D2.]
Farmers are divided on Nafta because the trade agreement will probably raise prices for some crops and hold down prices for others. [A1.] Republican gains in Tuesday's elections may make it harder for President Clinton to push Nafta through Congress. [A6.]
 
Companies
Companies are increasingly requiring employees to fly in economy class and stay in less expensive hotels in a drive to cut costs. Aware of the trend, airlines and hotels are basing plans on the assumption that corporate frugality will continue for years. [D1.]
BellSouth is close to investing at least $2 billion in QVC's bid for Paramount. The deal could substantially alter existing telecommunications and entertainment alliances. [D1.]
Vanguard Cellular will invest up to $197 million in Geotek, a radio dispatch company. The move is part of a trend in which companies with radio licenses to link taxi and truck fleets offer a cheap way to compete in the cellular telephone market. [D4.]
Nynex continued shedding information services assets, selling several units of AGS Computers for undisclosed terms. That sale and earlier ones will mean at least a $250 million charge. [D4.]
A former Coca-Cola marketing executive, Peter Sealey, was named president of Interactive Network. Several such executives are entering the fledgling interactive entertainment field. [D4.]
Primerica's top management will not include any executives of Travelers, which it expects to acquire later this year. [D4.]
Merrill Lynch offered investors in a real estate partnership it sold a settlement that would return to them less than 2 cents on every dollar of their original investment. [D4.]
Boeing is studying a new military jet that could serve more than one of the armed services. But analysts say it will be difficult for such a multipurpose craft to gain acceptance. [D6.]
A judge approved G.M.'s plan to give $1,000 coupons to owners of pickups that Federal officials say may pose a fire hazard. [A20.]
 
International
The rising yen is bad timing for Japanese auto makers, raising prices for their products in the U.S. while their home markets are hurting. With their grip on the American market loosening, the Japanese are turning to several strategies to hold down prices and remain competitive as American companies rebound. [A1.]
Canada's new Prime Minister named a moderate Cabinet likely to support the free trade pact with the U.S. and Mexico. [A9.]
 
Today's Columns
Investors wanting to play the beer-brewing industry have few choices among publicly traded companies. Market Place. [D6.]
October was tumultuous on Madison Avenue, where $1 billion in accounts was shifted. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D16.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (51%); PRI (NYSE) (51%); BOE (LSE) (50%); BAB (BRU) (50%); BA (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (53%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (53%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (51%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (51%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (53%); COCA-COLA CO (51%); PRIMERICA INC (51%); BOEING CO (50%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BONDS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRENDS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (79%); US DOLLAR (79%); BOND MARKETS (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); RETAILERS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); GOLD MARKETS (74%); AIRLINES (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); APPOINTMENTS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (62%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (62%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (60%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (54%); BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



103 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: A Pro-Trade Cabinet Takes Office in Canada

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Nov. 4

 BODY:
Jean Chretien formally took office today as Canada's 20th Prime Minister, and he immediately named a moderate, pragmatic Cabinet that is unlikely to walk away from free trade with the United States and Mexico.
The new Ministers of Finance and International Trade, Paul Martin Jr. and Roy MacLaren, both have backgrounds in international business and reputations as staunch free-traders. 
 "It is a problem-solving Cabinet determined to rebuild the economy and boost Canadian exports, objectives that we wholeheartedly share," said Tim Reid, president of the Canadian Chamber of Commerce.
The choice was seen as highly significant because of the deep rift over trade in Mr. Chretien's Liberal Party, which won in a landslide in elections last week. The Liberals fought -- and lost -- 1988 elections on a platform calling for the scrapping of free trade, and a group within the party still backs that position today.
Mr. Chretien told a news conference late today that the United States and Mexico were "aware of our concerns, aware of what our party program is, and that we do intend to sit down with them, even though time is pressing, to obtain satisfaction."
The words and tone were softer than last week when Mr. Chretien warned that he might not implement the pact unless Canadian terms were met. There were no such warnings today.
Mr. Chretien's language and appointments were taken as an indication that his Government will not seek a reopening of the North American Free Trade Agreement, a demand that could affect the vote on the accord by the United States House of Representatives scheduled for Nov. 17.
Instead, Canadian officials are passing the word that Ottawa will accept the pact as it is if the United States and Mexico commit to negotiate next year on specific improvements.
Mr. Clinton formally sent the final Nafta legislation to Capital Hill on Wednesday, and said that while it still lacked sufficient support to guarantee approval, "rapid progress" was being made in attracting new backers.
The Liberal Party has called for renegotiation of Nafta. Its party platform called for a set of rules covering unfair trade to prevent what Canadians consider to be often arbitrary harassment of their exports by American trade enforcement agencies.
American industries may demand retaliation in the form of high import duties if they can show that imports are unfairly priced.
Yet no international rules exist on what's fair or unfair. Canadians say rules would inhibit capricious American actions. They are jittery about the lack of rules because three-quarters of their exports go to the United States, and this accounts for about a fifth of their gross domestic product.
In the United States Congress, opponents of the accord have used Canadian objections to buttress their case that it is flawed. In turn, this has presented President Clinton with new roadblocks in his efforts to win ratification.
 
Distance From the Debate
 In comments today, Mr. MacLaren, the new Trade Minister, sought to distance Canada from the Congressional debate. "The play in Washington is entirely of regional issues in the U.S., of local interest, and not whether Canada has one attitude or another," he said.
Mr. Chretien is expected to meet Mr. Clinton in Seattle on Nov. 19 to discuss the issues at what would be their first official encounter. They will be attending a conference on Pacific trade.
Mr. Chretien, a 59-year-old political leader from Quebec, also acted today on some of his campaign pledges.
At its first meeting, a few hours after the swearing-in ceremonies, the Cabinet canceled the prior Government's purchase of $3.6 billion of military helicopters and began a program to create 120,000 public sector jobs.
But Mr. Chretien still faces major challenges in his efforts to lead Canada into the 21st century: generating an environment for private sector job creation; cutting mushrooming government deficits and debt and uniting protest-minded Canadians who last week also gave new strength to two regional opposition parties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INDUSTRIES LIFE INSURANCE CO (54%); AMERICAN INDUSTRIES INC (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; UNITED STATES; MEXICO CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); UNFAIR PRICING (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; CHRETIEN, JEAN (PRIME MIN); MACLAREN, ROY (MIN); MARTIN, PAUL JR (MIN) JEAN CHRETIEN (90%); PAUL MARTIN (78%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



104 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: As Rates Rise, Signs of a Shakeout Grow;
Plunge in Bonds Threatens to Halt A Yearlong Rally

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The plunge in the bond market over the last week, which pushed the yield on the 30-year bond up to 6.17 percent yesterday, has been a little like the fires in California. Selling has swept the market like wind-driven flames while traders and investors watched, stunned and unable to stop it.
And the selling could push yields even higher today if the October employment data fan the market's concerns about the recent pickup in economic growth. If that happens, more traders and investors will agree that the yearlong rally in the bond market is over. 
 A lot of buyers could have helped contain the bond market conflagration, as long-term yields leaped to their highest level since the end of August. But they chose not to. Instead, many money managers are sitting on their profits or selling to lock them in for the year. And they are keeping their increasing cash to themselves.
"The end of the year looms and we are trying to maintain the value of our shareholders," said Dennis M. Bushe, a managing director at Prudential Investment Advisers. "Cash positions are beginning to get a little higher and people are not putting it to work."
 
Changes in Approach
 Cash positions are rising at the Dreyfus Corporation also. But Barbara Kenworthy, the portfolio manager of taxable fixed-income funds, is also holding back. "If you put it in the context that it is year-end, and we've had a great year, it is easy to understand" why the company is not buying securities as prices fall, she said.
 This is the opposite of what these and many other money managers did earlier in the year. Then they bought and bought as yields fell, adding to momentum as interest rates on long-term securities fell to their lowest level in 25 years.
For some, like Ms. Kenworthy and Mr. Bushe, the recent selloff has not signaled that the rally is over. They both expect inflation to remain low and the economy to slow again at the beginning of next year, which would provide the environment for long-term interest rates to fall again.
But Ms. Kenworthy did note that "more people are seeming to say that we have seen the low yields in the market."
Yesterday, it seemed as if the ill winds picked up in the bond market as the price of the 30-year bond dropped about a point and a half, with most of the fall coming in the afternoon, as the yield surged to 6.22 percent.
Only a rebound after 4 P.M. enabled the bond to end the day with a decline of just 31/32 , with the yield at 6.17 percent, up from 6.10 Wednesday.
Since the selling was touched off last Friday, the yield on the 30-year bond has jumped almost a quarter of a percentage point from 5.95 percent. The yield on the 10-year note is up more than a quarter of a percentage point to 5.67 percent.
But the yields on shorter-term notes were not battered as much, because traders and speculators bought them as they dumped longer-term securities. This is a trade that is done when investors think interest rates are rising. The dollar losses on short-term securities are much less than on long-term ones for the same change in interest-rate levels.
 
 
Fear of Growth
 The first problem for the traders and investors in the last several weeks has been the fear of rising economic growth. Without looking at longer-term trends, traders and investors often instinctively interpret growth as a threat of rising inflation, which erodes the fixed returns in the bond market.
 That fear has increased with reports showing stronger growth in the third quarter and auto sales data indicating more growth in the fourth quarter.
On top of that has come the usual uneasiness ahead of the Treasury's quarterly auction of 3-year and 10-year notes, which is next Tuesday and Wednesday. Dealers often want to sell off some of their inventory ahead of these auctions in an effort to lower the price of the new securities, giving a better opportunity for profit after the auction.
Another factor for uneasiness is that the three most closely watched economic indicators for October are to be issued today, Tuesday and Wednesday.
The employment report is scheduled to come out this morning, the Producer Price Index on Tuesday and the Consumer Price Index on Wednesday. Inflation reports on the days of the Treasury auctions do not make anyone's job easier.
A selloff like yesterday's just before the release of a key economic report is "a sign of how weak the market really is," said Peter McTeague, a fixed-income analyst at Technical Data in Boston.
Another sign of weakness, according to Mr. McTeague and Ms. Kenworthy, is that the selling may continue even if the Labor Department reports that nonfarm payroll jobs are up 130,000 to 150,000 in October, an increase that is just below the consensus forecast.
One reason is that as soon as the employment data are released, traders and investors will be looking ahead to the inflation data scheduled for next week. Initial estimates are that the Consumer Price Index could rise four-tenths of a percent, which could easily spook a market with its current negative tone, even though many analysts contend that the report will not reflect rising inflation but technical adjustments in the way the report is prepared.
Mr. Bushe of Prudential Investment said that because of the inflation reports and the Treasury auctions "it will be a week or two before we know what the real level is in this market."
"There is a lot of smoke in the market right now," he added. "Getting through this auction back to back with some of these numbers is going to be tough."
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 36-day cash management bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 99.696
Discounted Rate . . . 3.04%
Coupon Yield . . . 3.09%
High Price . . . 99.697
Discounted Rate . . . 3.03%
Coupon Yield . . . 3.08%
Low Price . . . 99.696
Discounted Rate . . . 3.04%
Coupon Yield . . . 3.09%
Accepted at low price . . . 43%
Total applied for . . . $55,740,000
Accepted . . . $10,045,250
N.Y. applied for . . . $53,225,000
N.Y. accepted . . . $9,931,300
 
The cash management bills mature Dec. 16, 1993.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows the average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent from July-Nov. 1993. (Source: The Bond Buyer) (pg. D14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DRY (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DREYFUS CORP (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



105 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: For Cuomo, Elections Seeded Many Clouds and Few Linings

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

 BODY:
For Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, the victory of Republican mayoral candidates in New York City and two upstate cities on Tuesday have created new political hurdles that will complicate his efforts to win re-election to a fourth term next year.
Political strategists and some of his supporters say the Governor, who has not announced whether he will run, must address the disaffection of black voters who blame the Democratic Party for Mayor David N. Dinkins's defeat. 
 Also, the ouster of Mr. Dinkins and Gov. Jim Florio in New Jersey sends a heartening message to New York State Republican leaders that a wrathful anti-incumbent sentiment still runs strong among voters.
Some blacks have blamed Mr. Cuomo for some of the Mayor's travails because he ordered a report that was highly critical of Mr. Dinkins's handling of the 1991 Crown Heights disturbances.
 
'A Sense of Bitterness'
 "There is a sense of bitterness that more could have been done by the state party and the Governor," said Assemblyman Clarence Norman Jr., a Brooklyn Democrat who added that he thought Mr. Cuomo had done all he could for Mr. Dinkins. "He has to shore up his commitment to the African-American community."
As Mayor, Mr. Dinkins could also have used the power of his office to energize voters for Mr. Cuomo next year. Mr. Cuomo will lose that type of local field support not only in New York City, but also in Binghamton and Syracuse, where Republicans won mayoral races on Tuesday.
"The political organizations, the political base of the Democratic Party is significantly eroded," said John E. Sweeney, executive director of the New York State Republican Party.
Tuesdays's results are encouraging to Republicans. For years plagued by the inability to find strong statewide candidates, they can now say that running a little-known candidate with no record to attack -- someone like Christine Todd Whitman in New Jersey -- may be a good strategy instead of a perennial weakness.
Indeed, many Republicans leaders seem to be leaning toward supporting George E. Pataki, a first-term State Senator from Peekskill who is well liked by his colleagues but virtually unknown to voters outside his district.
"The up side of running someone without a record is that you cash in on Cuomo's negative rating," said Lee M. Miringoff, director of the Marist Institute for Public Opinion. "The downside is that you have trouble finding someone who has a grasp of the issues and is capable of putting together a field operation."
In the most recent Marist Poll, released in May, Mr. Cuomo's approval rating was 40 percent, its lowest since he took office in 1982.
To be sure, Mr. Cuomo's allies say that the Governor's record does not have the type of tantalizingly soft weakness that Mr. Dinkins had with Crown Heights and Mr. Florio had with large tax increases.
 
Dark Time for Budgets
 But Mr. Cuomo has presided over a dark time in the state's economy when its budgets have been tight and many companies have laid off workers. For all his efforts to portray New York's hard times as part of a national recession beyond his control, many voters will not see it that way.
"As long as the economy is weak, people are going to blame the incumbent," said Mitchell Moss, an occasional adviser to Mr. Dinkins and Mr. Cuomo.
Mr. Cuomo's friends and supporters also suggest favorable messages in Tuesday's outcomes. They argue that the victories of Democrats Mark Green and Alan G. Hevesi show that the vote was more anti-Dinkins than anti-Democratic Party. And they say that Democrats will be more inclined than ever to help Mr. Cuomo next year because they will not want to see Republicans controlling both the Governor's office and City Hall.
 
'He Ran as a Liberal'
 Mr. Cuomo himself has said that Mr. Giuliani often tried to distance himself from Republican ideas. "He ran as a Liberal, as well as a Republican," Mr. Cuomo said in a radio interview in Albany Wedneday. "He said party doesn't make a difference. I don't know how you convert that into a victory for Republicanism."
Mr. Cuomo will also benefit among black voters by running on the same ticket with State Comptroller H. Carl McCall, the first black to hold statewide office. Mr. Cuomo was instrumental in persuading the State Assembly to appoint Mr. McCall to replace Edward V. Regan, who resigned last spring.
Next year's race could also be affected by how the Republican Mayor deals with the Democratic Governor. Historically, governors and mayors of different parties have got along better than those on the same side.
But some of Mr. Cuomo's aides say they expect Mr. Giuliani to blame the Governor and the Democratic-led Assembly every time he fails to get what he wants from Albany -- a strategy that is likely to be encouraged by a Republican challenger to Mr. Cuomo. Mr. Cuomo's best response, his reporters say, will be to remind Mr. Giuliani that he once accused Mr. Dinkins of blaming others for the city's problems.
But Mr. Cuomo's help will be essential to many of the changes Mr. Giuliani has promised, and it is possible that the new Mayor -- whose inner circle includes Raymond Harding, a Liberal Party leader who is a strong supporter of Mr. Cuomo -- will studiously avoid attacking the Governor.
Either way, Mr. Cuomo could be placed in a difficult bind if Democrats ask him, in effect, to help the city without appearing to help Mr. Giuliani. "It does become tricky," said Mr. Norman. "We will be there for the Mayor because he's serving our constituents. But when he wants certain new initiatives, we may want to study it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); MAYORS; BLACKS (IN US); ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; DAO, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



106 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: As Liberia's Factions Talk, Strife and Fear Drag On

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MONROVIA, Liberia

 BODY:
For the last three months, Liberia's political factions have engaged in something rare for this war-battered country: peaceful negotiations to resolve the bitter differences that have led Liberia from dictatorship to anarchy.
Compromise has been elusive, however, and the three main armed factions remain deadlocked on the issue of forming a national government. As a result, politicians, foreign diplomats and relief workers fear that Liberia may be heading back down the path to full-scale civil war. 
 Complicating that prospect are reports that a fourth major armed faction, the Liberian Peace Council, has emerged and is fighting forces of the rebel leader Charles Taylor in eastern coastal Liberia. A relief group said recently that it had halted the first full shipment to the region in nearly a year because of reports of clashes in Sinoe and Grand Bassa counties.
The group, Catholic Relief Services, said that thousands of people were caught behind territory controlled by Mr. Taylor and that an unknown number faced death from malnutrition.
 
U.N. Could Pull Out
 A cease-fire that took effect on Aug. 1 had brought Liberia a fragile respite from three years of fighting and atrocities. But with no political settlement in sight, the United Nations is warning the factions that it could pull out of the peace mission later this year.
If the United Nations withdraws as a mediator, chances are the West African country will be ungovernable for the foreseeable future.
"I'm optimistic in the long run, but in the short run I'm very concerned about a process in which perhaps some people are not acting in good faith," said the United Nations special envoy to Liberia, Trevor Gordon-Somers.
Founded in the 19th century by freed slaves from the United States, Liberia has known long periods of political and economic stability. That image began fading in the late 1970's, when a Government move to increase rice prices set off violent protests by a nascent political opposition.
In 1980, President William Tolbert was assassinated in a coup led by Samuel K. Doe, then an army sergeant. The country's economy deteriorated as President Doe shuffled and reshuffled his Cabinet and cracked down brutally on his critics.
The civil war began in December 1989, when Libyan-backed followers of Mr. Taylor invaded from the neighboring Ivory Coast. Mr. Doe was toppled and killed the following year. As the guerrilla forces expanded and split into rival factions, the conflict grew into a vast tribal war, uprooting about half of Liberia's 2.5 million people. At least 100,000 people are estimated to have been killed in four years.
Since the United Nations brokered the cease-fire and the opening of political negotiations, the fear that had made life nearly intolerable has begun to subside, at least in the capital.
Monrovia is overflowing with 400,000 to 500,000 people, at least twice the number that lived here before the war. Tens of thousands of squatters live inside charred office buildings and houses long since burned, bombed or pillaged.
 
'At Least We're Alive'
 Yet people now stroll easily amid roadside stalls along Waterside, the city's commercial aorta -- a sight that was unimaginable a year ago when Mr. Taylor's rebels were battling unsuccessfully to capture the city. Food is plentiful, though expensive for most.
"Life is not easy here, but at least we're alive," said Moses Matthews, a 27-year-old carpenter from Buchanan who arrived recently with his wife and four children after spending nearly two years in Taylor territory. "I thank God for small mercies."
The picture is less promising for tens of thousands of people who are still behind rebel lines. Accounts of human rights abuses against unarmed civilians in those regions continue to filter into the capital. In recent days witnesses have reported that fighters of the United Liberation Movement in Liberia, known as Ulimo, had burned dozens of villages in Lofa County.
On the highway to nearby Tubmanburg, gun-wielding teen-agers staff Ulimo checkpoints. Slung with rifles, pistols and knives, they almost invariably demand bribes from travelers along the highway.
"They are mean, mean," an elderly woman said as she arrived in town. She said soldiers along the way had taken most of her belongings and all of her money. "They say they're here to protect us, but they just steal, that's all."
The main factions involved in the sporadic peace talks are the United Liberation Movement in Liberia, or Ulimo; the Armed Forces of Liberia and the National Patriotic Front, led by Mr. Taylor.
All three political factions are ethnically based. The United Liberation Movement and the Armed Forces of Liberia were both formed from remnants of the late President's former army, but Ulimo draws most of its members from the Mandingo ethnic group and the Armed Forces of Liberia mostly from Mr. Doe's tribe, the Krahn. The Taylor force is made up mostly of the Gao and Mano groups.
[After weeks of pressure from the United Nations, representatives of the three main factions arrived Thursday in Cotonou, Benin, to resume talks. "This is your last chance," President Nicephore Soglo of Benin told the officials as he welcomed them at a conference center.]
Diplomats say the only hope of breaking the impasse in the political talks would be a cold calculation by the factions that they must reconcile their differences or risk losing the United Nations as a mediator.
 
Disarming Factions Is Difficult
 "Liberia is more divided along tribal lines than it was even before the war began," said a Western relief worker with nearly a decade of experience here. "They seem utterly unable to let go of their old prejudices, and as long as that's true they'll continue fighting."
Even if the factions break their impasse, diplomats and many Liberians agree that the peace effort is almost certain to get bogged down again as the time arrives for the factions to make good on promises to disarm.
Thousands of West African troops, the bulk of them Nigerian, intervened in Liberia as a buffer force in August 1990 when the conflict threatened to spread across the country's borders. The force's role gradually shifted to combat as West African leaders came to view Mr. Taylor as a main obstacle.
In June, when the West African force appeared on the verge of capturing Mr. Taylor's headquarters in Gbarnga, the rebel leader agreed to a new round of negotiations.
 
Deadlock Undercuts U.N.
 In talks in Geneva in July, the three main warring factions agreed to the cease-fire, a timetable for demobilizing and disarming their troops, and perhaps most important, the creation of a new, transitional government of national reconciliation.
The United Nations Security Council voted in September to send about 300 unarmed monitors to supervise disarmament of the factions in cooperation with the 10,000-member West African force, which has returned to its peacekeeping role. Some of the monitors have already arrived, but diplomats say the deadlock in political talks has put their mission in doubt.
Each of the three factions offers a litany of explanations as to why negotiations have repeatedly faltered.
But the real issue is power. None of the camps are certain that it can win outright if elections are held as planned early next year.
"These are really trivia issues dividing them right now," a relief worker said. "But if they can't solve the small issues, how can they expect to deal with the big ones?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Despite a cease-fire in Liberia's civil war, many fear that the peace may be short-lived, as some supply shipments to rural areas have been blocked. In the northwestern village of Vahun, where the population has swollen from 5,000 to 45,000 in two years, residents gathered at a feeding center. (Kenneth B. Noble/The New York Times)
 
Maps show the location Monrovia, Liberia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8322 INDIVIDUAL & FAMILY SOCIAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: LIBERIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

CITY: MONROVIA, LIBERIA (58%); 

COMPANY: CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES (56%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES (56%); CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES (56%); CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBERIA LIBERIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); MONROVIA, LIBERIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FOREIGN AID; FAMINE REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); POLITICS (89%); FAMINE (78%); COUPS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); FOOD CHARITIES (76%); MALNUTRITION (73%); BAD FAITH (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); RIOTS (68%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, KENNETH B

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



107 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel Takes a Pay Cut

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
The luxurious business trip has not yet gone the way of the three-martini lunch, and corporations are not requiring executives to pack a bedroll for out-of-town travel. But so intent are companies on holding down costs that they are increasingly requiring employees to fly in economy class and to stay in hotels to match.
Airlines and hotels are basing their plans on the assumption that corporate frugality will continue for years. 
 "We've had a total cultural change that's moved our business travelers out of luxury accommodations into cheaper but adequate hotel rooms," said Pete Dykus, travel director of the Travelers Corporation, which books rooms for more than 100,000 nights annually. "In the last few years we've accomplished a 50 percent drop in room rates."
 
First Fears Dissipate
 Nor is Travelers alone. Motorola's semiconductor division used to send its travelers to Hilton hotels, but now they stay in Comfort or Rodeway Inns. "At first there's a mind-set that 'Oh, God, I'm going down to a cheaper hotel,' " said Mark Heinrich, a systems analyst for the division in Tempe, Ariz. "But the smaller properties are perfectly satisfactory, and it's really not necessary to have more."
Time was when an economy hotel would have conveyed the image of a pinch-penny company with an inferior product. Today it's considered smart management.
"Trading down," as the movement is called, is part of the corporate belt-tightening of the last few years. Last year alone, more than 25 percent of America's top 100 companies cut travel spending, according to a survey by Corporate Travel magazine.
And to hear companies tell it, they have no intention of returning to higher-priced hotels even after the economy rebounds. "No way!" said Don Lepard of Asea Brown BoveriLtd. in Stamford, Conn., the American subsidiary of the Swiss conglomerate. "The name of the game is to select what meets your requirements. If you're just staying a night, you don't have time to use a pool and room service."
A recent study of 500 travel managers by Yankelovich Partners for Mastercard found that 79 percent of corporations already limit spending on hotels and meals, while 43 percent prohibit first-class air travel. Runzheimer International, a management consulting firm, says that air fares average 46 percent of company travel and entertainment budgets, and that 38 percent of corporations limited first-class air travel last year, compared with 23 percent in 1988. Some substitute video conferences for company meetings.
A few, including Travelers and Target Stores in Minneapolis, the Dayton Hudson discount store subsidiary, are even encouraging Saturday-night stays to qualify for lower air fares, which can more than offset the increased hotel expense. Deloitte & Touche tried that but abandoned it as bad for morale. However, the firm, which holds more than 400 meetings a year, often saves by rescheduling them to hotels' open dates.
"We're looking to do the same thing," said George Odom, department head of travel services at Eli Lilly & Company, "because we want to cut our $30 million annual budget for meetings in half."
With business travel showing no signs of bouncing back, Tim Smith, a spokesman for American Airlines, said the carrier's strategy was aimed at "capturing a bigger share of the business travel that's still out there."
American has not only added flights between business cities and fine-tuned schedules to attract business travelers, it has also expanded the first-class cabin to 22 seats from 12 on each of its Boeing 757's. As one travel manager put it, "Tough times or not, senior management isn't about to take vows of poverty."
Mr. Smith added, "Much of the downsizing has fallen on middle management, many of whom were frequent travelers."
Business travelers currently account for 49 percent of American's passengers, and also account for a growing percentage of travelers on Southwest, the low-fare carrier.
"My directive to all my people is to fly Southwest whenever possible," said Jerry L. Lawson, president of the West Coast division of Circuit City, in Walnut, Calif. "We don't need the frills -- just good service, a good fare and to be there on time." The policy of the Unisys Corporation is for everyone, including senior executives, to fly coach on domestic flights.
For some corporate ax-wielders, lodging costs have become a more inviting target than air fares. Air-fare savings are not always easy for corporations to effect, travel managers say. Much business travel is spur of the moment. And some corporate travelers drive rather than fly.
"Our ratio of hotel expense to air fare expense is 75 percent to 25 percent," said Jack O. Reynaert Jr., travel manager for the Ameritech Corporation, the Chicago-based telecommunications company with 70,000 employees. For the last several years, Ameritech has been shifting employees away from higher-priced hotels to Budgetel, Red Roof, Hampton and similar economy hotels.
"Hotel rooms are kind of the last major bastion of controllable expense," said Mark Wells, a marketing executive with the Promus Companies, which runs Hampton Inns, Homewood and Embassy Suites.
Some travel managers said they had not resorted to economy hotels because, with occupancy rates lagging, they had been able to negotiate good deals with midpriced hotels.
Mr. Lepard of Asea Brown Boveri, who manages a $128 million annual travel budget, said, "I have brought my hotel cost down the last two years, to $23 million," by requiring employees to use economy hotels where possible, "and this year we'll save about $3 million more in hotel charges."
 
Rooms for Business Travelers
 While there is no uniform industry definition of hotel classes, Smith Travel Research, an independent research firm, defines budget hotels as the very cheapest, with an average room rate this year of $35.45; economy hotels, which also lack room service, swimming pools, and even restaurants (although many serve a continental breakfast or are near restaurants) average $45 a night, and midprice hotels, which usually have at least one restaurant, average $56. That compares with average rates of $76 for full-service, upscale hotels and $100 for luxury hotels.
Given the new frugality, Choice Hotels International -- which already reports big increases in business travelers in most of its seven economy brands -- is rushing to create 18,000 rooms especially for business travelers in 700 of its Quality Inns.
Indeed, what has made trading down bearable, as one travel manager said, is that economy hotels are the newest in the industry and most are a vast improvement over what many people call budget hotels.
Many hotels now have such business-related amenities as desks, speaker phones with redialing, accessible wall outlets, incoming and outgoing fax machines, computer hookups and in-room video checkout. Although such features increase room rates, Choice said those amenities in its 18,000 business traveler rooms would add "no more than $3 to the rate," now averaging $55 to $70 for corporations.
Some hotel companies cover themselves by offering a wide range of accommodations. Marriott chains, for example, include six luxury JW Marriott hotels ($195 to $215 at its Century City property in Los Angeles) to the bare-bones Fairfield Inns ($29 to $49 a night). In between are its Courtyards ($39 to $89) and Residence Inns ($75 to $105).
The full-service hotels make a better impression for certain business functions, and unlike economy hotels, they can hold large meetings.
"We still use higher-priced hotels for our big meetings or conventions," said Kathryn Spino, the travel supervisor of Office Depot Inc., the office supply company based in Boca Raton, Fla., with more than 300 stores in North America. "Otherwise we have a national account with La Quinta, or we use Budgetel, Hampton Inns, Comfort Inns or Signature Inns."
John Kaegi, senior vice president of marketing for the 215 La Quinta Inns, said: "Not long ago we had less than 100 corporate contracts. But they have increased dramatically, and now the number of corporate contracts is into the thousands."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Economizing on the Road" shows coporate policies to control travel costs and how widespread they are, based on surveys of 749 travel managers at companies with many employees who travel frequently. (Source: Ruzheimer International) (pg. D1); "Flying Cheaper" shows the percentage of buisness travelers flying on discount fares from 1990-1993. (Source: Topaz Enterprises) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%); MSI (NYSE) (56%); TGT (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (60%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (60%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (50%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (84%); TRAVELERS CORP (70%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (60%); HILTON WORLDWIDE (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); RUNZHEIMER INTERNATIONAL LTD (51%); TARGET CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL; CORPORATIONS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; HOTELS AND MOTELS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); AIR FARES (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); AIRLINES (76%); HOTEL CHAINS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (61%); SEMICONDUCTORS (53%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (53%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



108 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Merrill Lynch Offers Settlement to Real Estate Investors

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Investors in a real estate partnership widely sold by Merrill Lynch & Company have been offered a settlement that would return to them less than 2 cents on every dollar of their original investment.
Lawyers familiar with the case warned that many investors could collect substantially more, but only if they decide by Dec. 1 not to participate in the settlement. The settlement offer was sent to investors recently by Beigle & Sandler, a Chicago law firm handling the lawsuit in Federal court in Chicago. 
 Herbert Deutsch, a partner at Deutsch & Lipner, a Garden City, L.I., law firm, noted that investors who accept the settlement offered though the class-action lawsuit "are precluded from any other action in the future." For investors able to show that the limited partnership was an inappropriate investment, he said arbitration could result in awards of 50 or 60 cents on each dollar invested.
"I will recommend that investors opt out of the class-action settlement," said Mitchell L. Perlstein, a partner at Parker, Perlstein & Company, a Boca Raton, Fla., firm specializing in arbitration services for investors. He said the Dec. 1 deadline "is an unusually short period."
The Arvida partnerships, called Arvida/JMB L.P. II, were sold to about 15,000 investors, mostly in 1989 and 1990 when they were attracted by the projected interest rate of 12.5 percent. But except for $20 of distributions made on each of the 234,000 units, each worth $1,000, investors never received interest or principal.
The $6 million settlement proposed on the $234 million of limited partnerships sold to investors will be divided evenly between Merrill Lynch and JMB Realty Corporation of Chicago. Lawyers' fees will absorb more than 25 percent of the $6 million. Fred Yager, a spokesman for Merrill Lynch, said he did not know if disgruntled investors were referred by Merrill to the class-action lawsuit.
Despite the well-known names of Arvida, a real estate developer in Boca Raton, and JMB, the partnership was not soundly organized, according to Mr. Perlstein. He noted that the partnership was too risky for the retired people to whom it was sold as a "low-risk" investment and was organized with an excessive concentration -- 47 percent of its assets -- in a single project in Orange County, Calif., that was bought from an affiliate of JMB.
Mr. Perlstein also noted that sales of the Arvida II partnership were helped by the early payouts of 13 percent on Arvida I. Those payouts were a misleading indication of the partnership's success, however, because they came from capital and borrowed money and were far in excess of the Arvida I partnership's earnings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RLE (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (96%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (96%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: ARVIDA/JMB PARTNERS; MERRILL LYNCH & CO MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (96%); JMB REALTY CORP (66%); REAL ESTATE INVESTORS PLC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARVIDA/JMB PARTNERS; MERRILL LYNCH & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (91%); LAWYERS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (89%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



109 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Boeing Studies Production Of a Versatile Jet Fighter

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4

 BODY:
The Boeing Company said today that it was studying production of a new military jet that could serve the Air Force, fly from carriers for the Navy and lift off vertically for the Marines.
If the plane is produced, it will be the first time in almost 60 years that Boeing has built a new military fighter aircraft. 
 The plane would also provide unanticipated competition for the McDonnell Douglas Corporation and the Lockheed Corporation, which are expected to pummel each other for a shrinking number of military airplane orders.
The Boeing aircraft would be "what we think is the fighter of the future," said Peri Widener, spokeswoman for Boeing's Defense and Space Group. "It would be very small, very lightweight and very low cost."
 
Working on the Concept
 It has been 59 years since Boeing introduced the P-26 so-called Pea-Shooter fighter for what was then the Army Air Corps. More recently, Boeing has built bombers for the Air Force, most notably the B-52, and has converted many of its commercial planes for military transport use.
Boeing said it had been working on the fighter concept for about two years with help from the Advanced Research Projects Agency, the Pentagon's high-tech shop. The cost and size of the plane, which does not yet have a name, were not estimated. The company did not say where the plane would be built.
The all-purpose fighter would depend heavily on composite materials and modular production techniques. Boeing said the modular production would "allow different versions of the airplane to be built on the same factory production line, minimizing assembly costs" and allowing for a variety of configurations for use by different services.
But a plane for all services may not make sense to the military. The services have not been able to cooperate on a joint plane in the past.
"Multiservice airplanes traditionally don't do well at all," said Bill Dane, senior aerospace analyst at Forecast International, a research firm.
 
Different Construction Needs
 For example, the Navy's heavier planes have reinforced landing gear and special equipment to survive the slamming of aircraft-carrier landings. But Air Force planes, designed to land on regular runways, have less durable landing gear and are lighter.
Boeing said that the concept of modular manufacturing was valid, and that it was based on recent advancements in technology and production techniques.
The Boeing concept is similar to that of the Joint Advanced Strike Technology project detailed by Defense Secretary Les Aspin, which is based on common aircraft components fitted to different airframes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%); LMT (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO BOEING CO (98%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (91%); MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (72%); US AIR FORCE (91%); US NAVY (84%); DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO US AIR FORCE (91%); US NAVY (84%); DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIR FORCES; NAVIES; MARINE CORPS; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (91%); AIR FORCES (91%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (78%); NAVIES (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (73%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



110 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Ripples in an Election

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4

 BODY:
The elections on Tuesday were not about President Clinton, and certainly not about the North American Free Trade Agreement. But some in Washington think the results will make it harder for President Clinton to prevail when the North American Free Trade Agreement comes up for a decisive vote in about two weeks.
"Clearly Nafta has long-term advantages," said Representative Robert G. Torricelli of New Jersey, one of the small band of Democrats still undecided on the issue. "But I have to balance that against the short-term economic pain I would be asking some of the workers in my district to accept. The election showed how high people's anxieties about jobs are, in addition to higher taxes, at least in my state, so it strengthened my reservations about Nafta." 
 The White House argued that there was no connection at all. The whole proposition, Mr. Clinton said, was "ludicrous." He asserted that the real lesson of the election was that "if people think you're for change, you get elected," and in this case, he said, the trade agreement constitutes change. Some of the fence-sitters agreed, like Representative Nita M. Lowey of Westchester.
 
Lowey Says It's Up to Her
 "It's irrelevant," she said. "It's not up to the President to tell me to take the tough vote and he'll protect me, it's up to me to decide."
Clearly, few if any people who cast ballots in the races for governor in New Jersey or Virginia or for mayor in New York City can have had the agreement on their minds. The voting turned largely on local issues like crime and taxes.
But the results -- the defeat of Democrats in the three most publicized contests, after three other major defeats earlier this year -- may still make it harder for Mr. Clinton to gain a Congressional victory for the trade accord on Nov. 17, because they make him look weak when he needs to look strong.
The White House acknowledges that if the vote were taken now, Mr. Clinton would lose. With 217 votes needed to block the agreement in the House, because there is one vacancy, its opponents already have about 200. If he is to prevail, Mr. Clinton must somehow win the backing of a large majority of the 60 to 65 officially undecided Democrats, many of whom fear reprisal from their constituents if they go along with him.
 
Fears Called Overblown
 Stanley Greenberg, Mr. Clinton's pollster, insisted such fears were overblown. Dispatched to Capitol Hill today, he argued that the President would have been strengthened by victories on Tuesday, had they come, but had not been hurt by the losses.
"The public remains tentative, undecided and genuinely conflicted on this issue," Mr. Greenberg said he told worried House Democrats. "Except for a few districts, this is not an issue that has much recrimination in it."
But his presentation was reportedly greeted with some derision, especially from Democratic opponents of the trade accord like Representatives David E. Bonior of Michigan and David R. Obey of Wisconsin, and nose-counters said he made no converts. One skeptic said the President had not been hurt much, but only because his persuasive powers had been damaged by mishaps to his Presidency long before the votes were counted on Tuesday night.
To persuade legislators in a situation like this, a President can appeal to party loyalty, which is weak in general these days and unusually weak on the accord; he can promise things, such as Federal projects or appointments, or threaten to withhold them, and he can provide protection. Vote with me, he can say, and we will win. If they go after you back home, I'll come into your state and help you recover.
But Mr. Clinton helped Mayor David N. Dinkins of New York and Gov. Jim Florio of New Jersey, and they lost anyway. He showed no clout.
 
Looking After No. 1
 "What do these returns show me?" a Democrat on Capitol Hill asked, after exacting a promise of anonymity."They show me that I had better look after old No. 1. Maybe by next year, Bill Clinton will be strong enough to help me survive, but he isn't right now, and I can't afford to bet on the come.
"I still haven't decided how to vote on Nafta, but I know my people at home don't like it, and I find Florio's loss particularly threatening."
There is a certain irony in that, of course, because Governor Florio is one of the strongest opponents of the trade agreement in either party. But until he lost, he had seemed to professional politicians to be the pre-eminent symbol of the ability of officeholders to take a highly unpopular economic stance (in his case increasing state taxes) and survive.
Mr. Bonior took a somewhat different tack. One of the lessons of the voting, he said, was that "people don't like their leaders much."
"The Administration is trying to sell Nafta with big names -- former Presidents, secretaries of state, Lee Iacocca, people like that," Mr. Bonior said. "I think the public has pretty well had it with that kind of elitism, and tends to think if guys like that are for it, it must be bad for them."
But he and others conceded that it was impossible to say how large the election returns would loom when the final decisions are made or how many votes would be swayed. Two factors make Mr. Clinton's task more difficult: he cannot afford to lose many more Democratic votes in the House, and at least eight of the swing Democrats come from the three states where the Republicans scored big victories on Tuesday.
 
Presidential Weapons at Hand
 The President still has weapons to use. In addition to cutting deals, he can argue that after the the electoral setbacks they have suffered, the Democrats cannot afford to hand a defeat to their President on his major proposal of this autumn. And he can argue that a defeat would cripple him in his meetings with Chinese and other Asian leaders in Seattle in late November, a few days after the vote.
Peter Hart, another leading Democratic pollster, scoffed at suggestions that the election results had doomed the trade accord. But he said they showed how important jobs are to voters. It is therefore all the more important, he said, for the Administration to make the case that the agreement is a job-builder and not a job-destroyer, not even in the short term, for the vast majority.
That argument has not been driven home yet, Mr. Hart said, and George Stephanopoulos, one of the President's closest advisers, agreed with him.
"What we have to do in the time that's left is convince people that standing pat is the most dangerous course," he said. "Look at Tuesday. The most passive candidate, Mary Sue Terry in Virginia, lost the worst."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CANADA; MEXICO UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; TORRICELLI, ROBERT G (REPR) BILL CLINTON (94%); NITA M LOWEY (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



111 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Sales Data Offer Few Clues To Stores' Holiday Prospects

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
There was little consistency in the October sales figures reported yesterday by most of the major retail chains, leaving merchants with few hints about how they will fare during the critical holiday sales season.
For every department store operator that had sluggish sales in October, there was one with healthy gains, a pattern that held true for most other types of retailers. 
 Clothing sales lagged last month after showing some signs of strengthening in September, when crisp fall weather drove shoppers into stores in search of sweaters and coats. But sales of appliances, televisions, electric drills and other hard goods continued to advance in October, providing evidence that consumers are still willing to spend.
"It was a mixed bag," said Jeffrey M. Feiner, a retail analyst at Salomon Brothers Inc.
He said the October sales figures reflected conflicting messages on the economy. "You had the University of Michigan survey of consumer confidence showing an improvement, while the Conference Board survey showed a decline," he said. "Manufacturing trends are positive, but employment trends are soft."
 Retailers are playing it safe, analysts and executives said, by keeping inventories and expenses low as they prepare for the holiday season.
Estimates of increases in holiday sales range from 4 percent to as high as 8.5 percent. No one expects a repeat of last year's holiday splurge, when shoppers drove sales up more than 10 percent.
And that strong showing will make it more difficult for retail businesses to show an increase this year.
"They are all up against formidable figures," said Kurt Barnard, president of Barnard's Retail Consulting Group. "The figures so far this year are lackluster and a little ominous in terms of what they may mean for Christmas."
The wildfires in California affected merchants unevenly during the last week of October. J. C. Penney, the Dayton Hudson Corporation and Clothestime Inc., which have a high concentration of stores in California, were among the companies reporting that the fires had inhibited sales. But others with a big California presence, like the May Department Stores Company, were not affected.
There were no clear trends to be drawn from the sales numbers released yesterday. Federated Department Stores Inc., which operates seven department store chains including Bloomingdale's and Burdines, said its same-store sales declined 1.5 percent last month. But May Department Stores, which runs Lord & Taylor, Robinsons-May and other regional department store chains, reported that its same-store sales climbed a healthy 5.8 percent.
Same-store sales, or sales in stores open at least a year, are considered a better measure of a retailer's performance because the figure eliminates irregular sales patterns in new stores.
 
 
Effect of California Fires
 Same-store sales at the Kmart Corporation, which operates several specialty-store chains, edged up a meager 1.4 percent. Dayton Hudson, which operates Target discount stores, Mervyn's and three department store chains, reported a same-store sales decline of seven-tenths of 1 percent, in large part because of its heavy presence in California.
But Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which competes with both Dayton Hudson and Kmart, surprised Wall Street with an 8 percent increase in same-store sales. Analysts had expected an increase of 6 to 6.5 percent.
The only retail companies showing similar sales patterns were those that deal primarily in apparel, and their results were almost uniformly disappointing. The Gap Inc. said its comparable store sales slid 2 percent last month, but the retailer added that promotional activity was much lower than during October 1992 so that profits should be better. Clothestime, the retailer based in Anaheim, Calif., that operates specialty stores catering to young shoppers, said its same-store sales dropped 6 percent.
 
 
Fashion Is a Problem
 Analysts said many shoppers were unenthusiastic about recent fashion trends. "I think fashion is a bigger problem for retailers right now than the economy," said Daniel D. Barry, a retail analyst at Merrill Lynch & Company. "The consumer just doesn't like the clothes out there, which is why you see the demand for things like autos, electronics and jewelry."
Another factor that might be eating into some stores' business is the reemergence of Sears, Roebuck & Company, said Edward Johnson, director of the Johnson Redbook Service, which tracks retail sales. Sears posted its 10th consecutive monthly gain in October, with a 12.7 percent rise in comparable store sales.
"Sears is a big animal," Mr. Johnson said. "When they get a 12 percent improvement, that takes big hunks of sales out of the market that used to go other retailers."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Retailers' Sales Detailed
 (By The Associated Press)
Here are the domestic October sales reported yesterday by some of the nation's largest retailers:
 
Dayton Hudson Corp.
Four weeks ended Oct. 30: Same-store sales fell 0.7 percent. Overall sales totaled $1.43 billion, up 5.3 percent from $1.36 billion.
Federated Department Stores Inc.
Four weeks ended Oct. 30: Same-store sales fell 1.5 percent. Overall sales totaled $560.8 million, down 0.9 percent from $565.9 million.
Gap Inc.
Four weeks ended Oct. 30: Same-store sales fell 2 percent. Overall sales totaled $257 million, up 8 percent from $239 million.
Kmart Corp.
Four weeks ended Oct. 27: Same-store sales rose 1.4 percent. Overall sales totaled $3 billion, up 8.6 percent from $2.76 billion.
Limited Inc.
Four weeks ended Oct. 30: Same-store sales were unchanged. Overall sales totaled $488.3 million, down 3 percent from $503.4 million.
May Department Stores Co.
Four weeks ended Oct. 30: Same-store sales rose 5.8 percent. Overall sales totaled $822.3 million, up 9.2 percent from $753.3 million.
J. C. Penney Co.
Four weeks ended Oct. 30: Same-store sales rose 3.6 percent at Penney stores only. Overall sales totaled $1.58 billion, up 6.2 percent from $1.49 billion. (Overall sales include J. C. Penney and drugstores and catalogue.)
Sears, Roebuck & Co.
Four weeks ended Oct. 30: Same-store sales rose 12.7 percent. Overall sales totaled $2.38 billion, up 10.2 percent from $2.16 billion.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
Month of October: Same-store sales rose 8 percent. Overall sales totaled $6.03 billion, up 24 percent from $4.87 billion.
Woolworth Corp.
Four weeks ended Oct. 30: Same-store domestic sales rose 0.9 percent. Overall domestic sales totaled $343 million, down 8.9 percent from $376 million. Total sales, including foreign, totaled $632 million, down 12.6 percent from $723 million.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Tumultuous October on Madison Avenue" shows the constant change in the advertising industry. (Source: Company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (86%); TGT (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (86%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (86%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (85%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (86%); TARGET CORP (85%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (70%); CLOTHESTIME INC (64%); KMART CORP (60%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; CHRISTMAS RETAILERS (95%); SALES FIGURES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); FIRES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



112 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising;
So the stock market didn't crash in October, after all. But what was that noise on Madison Avenue?

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
OCTOBER is often a tumultuous month on Wall Street. This time, it was quiet. But on another street -- Madison Avenue -- it was another story altogether.
There is no advertising equivalent of the Dow Jones industrial average or the Standard & Poor's indexes to measure account volatility. However, by one estimate, marketers last month announced reviews, changed agencies or consolidated assignments on accounts with total annual billings of $1.08 billion to $1.18 billion. 
 If it's not a record, it ought to be.
"That's huge," William T. Lynch, president and chief executive at the Leo Burnett Company in Chicago, said when told the figure.
The mercurial nature of the advertising business is nothing new. Indeed, clients have been fickle since the days when they were being wooed by Leo Burnett himself. Longtime executives can still recall the day Ted Bates traded Anacin for Bufferin or the time Chrysler left BBDO and Young & Rubicam for Kenyon & Eckhardt.
But the confluence of abrupt account shifts that culminated in October's wild ride might well be unique.
"It does seem to be more extreme now than before," Tony Miller, chairman and chief executive at Lintas New York, said.
"It may be as simple as a coincidence," he added. "But it may be a function of the fact that business for virtually every major industry is tougher than it has been before."
As a result, he continued, "pressure from the board of directors on down to deliver has never been more intense. So those not able to point to the contributions they're making to client business are under increasing pressure."
Mr. Miller knows that all too well. His agency was perhaps the hardest hit amid October's ferment, losing three major clients: Diet Coke; the IBM PC Company, an account it had shared, and Molson Breweries U.S.A. An advertisement the agency ran on Wednesday in The Miami Herald, seeking to become a contender in another of October's surprises, the Burger King Corporation review, began: "Maybe the only thing tougher than being in a tough business is creating advertising for people who are in a tough business."
Mr. Lynch agreed. "Frankly, it is a very difficult world for a lot of marketers out there," he said, ticking off a litany of problems: "Consumer confidence is low. Spending is slow. Unemployment is high. Layoffs are still a concern."
"And as they start looking at 1994," he continued, "the best they can see is more cautious optimism -- the same cautious optimism with which they approached '93 and '92 and '91. So they start saying, 'Gee, I've got to do something about this.' "
That something usually turns out to be a reassessment of their agency relationships.
"There's an upsurge in what I call client moxie," said Donny Deutsch, executive vice president and creative director at Deutsch/Dworin Inc. in New York. "They need to find new solutions, and agencies are fair game."
That had helped to bring about a significant, systemic "refacing of the agency business," he added, "a reconfiguration of the way clients and agencies work together."
The most notable manifestation of the reshaping of Madison Avenue is the wave of smaller boutique, or spinoff, shops formed by huge agencies in hopes of fostering more creativity and less bureaucracy. One of the biggest beneficiaries of October's tumult, Merkley Newman Harty, which was named to share the IBM PC account, is a creatively focused spinoff of Doremus & Company in New York.
While October's frenetic change was, in all likelihood, too hot not to cool down, November has begun with a bang or two. This week, Hardee's Food Systems Inc. named Deutsch/ Dworin the national advertising agency on its estimated $75 million fast-food chain account and Castrol Inc. dismissed Scali, McCabe, Sloves and moved its motor oil brands, with estimated billings of $20 million to $30 million, to Houston, Effler, Hampel & Stefanides in New York.
"The interesting story is a year from now," Mr. Deutsch said. "What will have happened to all these accounts that changed? Does it change anybody's business?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: TAP (NYSE) (64%); BKW (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (64%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (64%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (64%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (64%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (63%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); MIAMI, FL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: LEO BURNETT CO INC (83%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (64%); BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); MIAMI, FL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; ACCOUNT CHANGES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); LAYOFFS (69%); BREWERIES (67%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



113 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Rumors of Buying by Soros Send Gold Prices Surging

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Gold prices jumped again yesterday, amid rumors that the billionaire financier George Soros was starting to buy gold once more.
In lively trading on the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for December delivery jumped $4.40 an ounce, to $372.40. Partly because of a late Wednesday rally, gold prices have shot up $8.80 an ounce in two days. 
 Gold's gains lifted other precious metals, as well as the shares of gold-mining companies. Silver for delivery in December rose 7.5 cents an ounce, to $4.382, and January platinum moved up $1.60, to $375.80 an ounce, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Analysts said the excitement in gold was ignited by talk that Mr. Soros was changing his investment mix, possibly shifting into gold from the weakening bond market as signs of a strengthening economy fanned concern over renewed inflation.
They said that Mr. Soros, who heads the Quantum Fund, had been heavily invested in bonds and that a jump in long-term bond interest rates might have prompted the switch.
The yield on the Treasury's 30-year bond jumped to 6.17 percent in late trading after a weeklong rise from less than 6 percent as investors sold bonds. Last month, the 30-year bond traded at a 25-year low of 5.78 percent.
Typically, investors run to gold for shelter in times of rising inflation or economic uncertainty.
Mr. Soros has been a familiar name in gold. In April, gold was hovering at a 10-year low of $326 an ounce when he swept in and bought 10 percent of the Newmont Mining Corporation, a gold giant, from the investor Sir James Goldsmith.
Amid fears of rising inflation, the move unleashed a wave of speculative buying in the bullion market, which sent gold prices racing to a three-year high of $414 an ounce by early August. But the rally fizzled by summer's end on rumors that Mr. Soros was shifting out of gold and into bonds as inflation worries subsided.
A spokesman for Mr. Soros refused to comment, reiterating the financier's policy of not discussing his investment positions or responding to market rumors.
On other commodity markets, the energy market turned relatively quiet yesterday after a sharp jump on Wednesday. Crude oil for December delivery eased 9 cents, to $17.40 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NEM (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (66%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (66%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEWMONT MINING CORP (66%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; GOLD; PRICES GOLD MARKETS (92%); BONDS (92%); FUTURES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); INFLATION (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GOLD MINING (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); MINES & MINING (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); INTEREST RATES (52%); 

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



114 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Rising U.S. Interest Rates Help to Push Dollar Higher

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The dollar rose yesterday, gaining support from higher American interest rates and nervousness about the tumbling Tokyo stock market.
"People seem to be interested in buying dollars due to a backup in U.S. interest rates," Bruce English, head of institutional sales at ABN/AMRO N.V., said. 
 Mr. English pointed out that Treasury bond rates have jumped to 6.17 percent, from 6 percent on Monday, making American fixed-income investments more attractive than ones in Europe or Japan, where rates have been falling.
The Tokyo stock market also lost more than 2 percent of its value yesterday, with the Nikkei index of 225 issues dipping below the psychological support level of 19,000 points for the first time since March 31.
"With the Japanese stock market crashing, people feel bearish on the yen," one dealer said.
 
 
Dollar at 108.23 Yen in New York
 The dollar rose to 108.23 yen in late New York trading, from 107.63 on Wednesday. The dollar also rose to 1.6961 German marks from 1.6943 marks.
Dealers said expectations for a strong American employment report today -- the first official economic report for October -- also helped push the dollar higher.
Unemployment is expected to remain unchanged at 6.7 percent, but payrolls are expected to grow by 146,000, following the addition of 156,000 jobs in September. The figures add to many recent signs that the moderate economic recovery in the United States is picking up steam.
Factory orders rose a better-than-expected seven-tenths of 1 percent, the Commerce Department reported, also buoying the dollar.
The British pound closed in New York at $1.4801, down from $1.4820 late Wednesday.
Other late dollar rates, compared with Wednesday's quotes, included: 1.5020 Swiss francs, up from 1.5010; 5.9070 French francs, up from 5.9065; 1,642 Italian lire, up from 1,637, and $1.3036 (Canadian), down from $1.3087.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (90%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (90%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (71%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); BONDS (73%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); GERMAN MARK (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); FACTORY ORDERS (64%); BRITISH POUND (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



115 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Factory Orders Are Up, And So Is Productivity

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4

 BODY:
More signs emerged today of a continuing if mixed recovery, with Government reports that worker productivity increased sharply in the third quarter, factory orders rose in September and new claims for jobless benefits fell last week.
"All of the numbers are looking pretty good and moving in the right direction," said Sung Won Sohn of the Norwest Corporation in Minneapolis. 
 The Labor Department reported that productivity shot up at a 3.9 percent annual rate for July through September, rebounding from declines in the two preceding quarters.
The Commerce Department said September factory orders increased seven-tenths of 1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted $255.2 billion, the third advance in four months.
And in a third report, the Labor Department said the number of new claims for unemployment insurance dropped by 10,000 last week, to 338,000, the lowest level in a month.
A bimonthly business confidence index released today by the United States Chamber of Commerce suggested that the economy had begun to pick up. The index rose to 46.4 in October from 45.6 in August, though it was still well below the 62.4 reached in December and again in February.
Today's reports followed an October survey by the Federal Reserve System, released on Wednesday, that also found a moderately growing economy, paced by motor vehicles and residential construction.
On a negative note, major retailers reported today that consumers were spending cautiously in October, which traditionally has been a good barometer of Christmas sales activity. Discount stores and a revitalized Sears, Roebuck & Company posted the strongest results. But some department stores and specialty apparel retailers reported poor sales.
The new data preceded the Labor Department's employment report for October, to be released Friday. Many analysts expect the department to report that 135,000 jobs were created in October, although the unemployment rate was expected to remain at 6.7 percent for the third month.
The Labor Department said the seasonally adjusted increase in nonfarm productivity, or output per hour worked, followed declines of 1.8 percent in the first quarter and four-tenths of 1 percent in the second.
The declines were the first since productivity fell seven-tenths of 1 percent at an annual rate in January-March, 1991. The third-quarter rebound approached the 4.2 percent gain in October-December last year.
Mr. Sohn noted that the advance resulted in a four-tenths of 1 percent decrease in unit labor costs, the first drop since 1987. Unit labor represents two-thirds of the cost of a product.
The Commerce Department said the rise in factory orders included similar seven-tenths of 1 percent gains in durable and nondurable goods. The durable-goods improvement included most major components.
But transportation orders slipped 1.6 percent as a 33.7 percent plunge in aircraft orders offset a 5.4 percent rise in autos.
Orders for nonmilitary capital goods -- a barometer of business plans to expand and modernize -- fell 2.6 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Factory Orders" shows manufacturers' total new orders in billions of dollars from May 1992-Sept. 1993. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (66%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; PRODUCTIVITY; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); PRODUCTIVITY (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (75%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (73%); AIRCRAFT MFG (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CHRISTMAS (66%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (65%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



116 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
Sidewalks: Clinton and Giuliani

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
The Dinkins mayoralty campaign in New York City was rich in celebrities, a whole glitter of them -- singers, actors, big-name politicians, rappers, comedians, and of course the two greatest superstars of all, Bill Clinton and Barbra Streisand.
But the Giuliani campaign struck back with its own Hollywood and Broadway contingent. It was called Ron Silver. 
 About 1 A.M. Wednesday, a half-hour after Rudolph Giuliani's family and close friends had allowed themselves victory hugs, they went down to the ballroom for the big celebration.
Sighting the actor leaving Mr. Giuliani's room, somebody cried joyfully: "That's our celebrity!"
Mr. Silver is one of the very best actors in the country. Still, it must be said that for glitz and money, he is no Barbra Streisand. But if you want to talk politics: People like Ron Silver are the reason Rudolph Giuliani won.
Mr. Silver is a Democrat who this year threw himself behind Mr. Giuliani. He senses in that Republican a bone feeling for what so many New Yorkers want most in their daily lives -- safe schools, safe streets, racial peace, civil liberty defined to include civil respect. He longs to see more of that in Mr. Clinton.
Mr. Giuliani defeated Mr. Dinkins and Ron Silver defeated Barbra Streisand.
So where does that leave Mr. Clinton in New York? Not too bad -- if he pays attention to what the mayoralty election means.
He did leave some New Yorkers in extreme grump by implying that those who voted for Mr. Dinkins once but were not happy about his record as Mayor suddenly could not see anything but his color. Yes, there is racism in New York, and Little Rock, plenty.
But, as I told a brilliant good friend, a new New Yorker who announced his support of Mr. Dinkins -- "O.K., but leave your guilt feelings in your carpetbag when you come north, hear? I've got enough troubles of my own."
But that Clinton gaffe will not remain a big case. New York is in a mood to follow Mr. Dinkins's elegant example and try to drown hard feelings.
The difference between Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Clinton is that politically the Mayor-elect walks on city pavements, and the President seems to float just above them. This is getting to be an urban country, in needs, desires and voting power.
So it is not just the sidewalks of New York that Mr. Clinton does not feel through his shoes, but the streets of other big cities. He says the interested things but sometimes with much generality and little passion.
There's one important exception -- universal health insurance, a real town and country item. Whatever his future accomplishments or failures, Mr. Clinton is doing for the U.S. what F.D.R. did with Social Security and unemployment insurance: persuading Americans to take on a great social problem, going for the goal even though it may take years to work out completely.
But many other things that make a difference in quality of life do not seem to seize his emotions or attention fully: crime, drugs, violence, the mentally ill wandering the streets.
All are part of what Americans know is their most critical problem: creating and protecting public safety in a democratic society.
Mr. Clinton is not a city man. But he has been around the U.S. enough to understand. I think he does not concentrate his intellectual and political power hard enough on sidewalk problems because during the Presidential campaign he overgeneralized his objective -- improving the economy.
The economy cannot be separated politically and socially from the sidewalk illnesses that so frazzle Americans. And these problems cannot be left for solution to some other day, until the big economic picture and all the root causes are solved. Americans need relief from crime, drug addiction, hideous street violence -- not by and by but right away.
Mr. Giuliani knew that. He has walked on pavements all his life. He talked of the economy, budgets, deficit, job loss -- but did not say first those, then public safety. He did not run on a slogan of "it's the economy, stupid" but "it's everything, see?"
We will find out what he can do. But walking intellectually on the sidewalks is something for the President to think about -- then do. I voted for Bush, Clinton, Dinkins and Giuliani and for a change I sure would like to vote for the same person twice in a row.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); ARKANSAS, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); ARKANSAS, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; URBAN AREAS ACTORS & ACTRESSES (92%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RAP MUSIC (78%); CITIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RACE & RACISM (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; SILVER, RON (ACTOR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



117 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
If Nafta Loses

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
It is as a symbol that the North American Free Trade Agreement really matters. The economic effects of the agreement on this country would be marginal. But if Congress turns Nafta down, the political consequences would be enormous.
No matter how the opponents tried to disguise it, the world would see defeat as a message that America has gone protectionist. That would encourage the protectionism already rising in France and elsewhere in Europe. 
 The effort to complete the Uruguay Round of GATT negotiations would collapse, I am convinced. Why should the French Government, whose fear of farm voters now blocks agreement, show political courage on trade when the United States has abandoned its most important trade venture in years?
From the collapse of the Uruguay Round there could follow a worldwide retreat from free trade. Political leaders might well continue to profess loyalty to the principle, but they would give way to local pressures for barriers here, there, everywhere.
Would such a surge of protectionism matter? It could -- I think it would -- mean the end of nearly 50 years of rising world prosperity. That's all.
Since World War II the world has experienced extraordinary economic growth. The engine for that growth has been international trade: vastly increased trade in an age of more and more rapid transportation and communication.
Successive rounds of tariff reduction have fueled the rise of international trade. The United States has been the leader in efforts to cut not only tariffs but quotas and other non-tariff barriers. And now the leader would be seen to have turned away: turned inward.
The arguments made against Nafta by such significant opponents as the United Auto Workers seem to me to come down to fear of change and fear of foreigners. Change can indeed be painful, certainly so in our accelerating technological world. But the alternative to change is stagnation.
One great American economic asset, historically, has been mobility. The secret of our prosperity has been the mobility of both capital and labor in a huge market, the readiness to seize new opportunities: to move.
The need for mobility is the greater in an age when new technological products can work economic revolutions -- when computer software becomes a vital industry overnight. Yet the opponents of Nafta want us to put our faith in keeping things as they are, resisting change.
The irony is that the jobs they want to protect, many of them, are low-wage jobs. But the future prosperity of the United States depends on moving people and capital into new enterprises, high-paying ones, not in telling us that we need learn nothing new.
I have heard it said that Bill Clinton acted against his own political interest in pressing for approval of Nafta because he alienated the labor unions that are the core of Democratic Party support. I think that gets the politics exactly backward.
Unions in this country, sad to say, are looking more and more like the British unions that have become such a millstone around the neck of the Labor Party: backward, unenlightened. Bill Clinton cannot build a new Democratic Party on that base. The crude threatening tactics used by unions to make Democratic members of the House vote against Nafta underline the point.
The consequences of Nafta's defeat would be particularly bad in Latin America. It would, as Bernard Aronson, former Assistant Secretary of State, said, "strengthen traditional economic cliques, which have grown rich by manipulating and sometimes corrupting their political systems to shut out competition at the expense of ordinary citizens."
Given the growing economic clout of Asia, a rational United States would be doing all it can to increase trade in its own hemisphere. Mexico is already our third-largest export customer -- despite Mexican barriers to U.S. products that would be removed by Nafta. Defeat of the agreement would be a good way to tell Mexico we do not care about that market.
The opponents are really saying: Stop the world, I want to get off. But we cannot do that. All we can do is impoverish ourselves in the attempt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; FRANCE; CANADA; MEXICO UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); WORLD WAR II (52%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



118 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 31; Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: Art in Review

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:

Oyvind Fahlstrom
 Sidney Janis Gallery
 110 West 57th Street
 Manhattan
 Through Nov. 13
The work of Oyvind Fahlstrom, a Swedish artist who died of cancer in 1976 at the age of 47, occupies a frequently overlooked niche in the history of Pop Art, one that is illuminated by this small, excellent retrospective. It includes 25 works dating from 1963 to 1975: drawings, paintings on paper and a collage whose magnetized motifs can be moved around, as well as three colorful cutout sculptures, reintroducing an artist who was, in essence, a political miniaturist. 
 Born and reared partly in Brazil, Mr. Fahlstrom completed his childhood in Sweden and moved to New York in 1961. Here he became a friend of Robert Rauschenberg and Claes Oldenburg, and an admirer of R. Crumb and Krazy Kat. As the work on view demonstrates, his admiration for popular culture was equaled by a suspicion of nearly all forms of government.
In the 1960's, he evolved a dense, compartmentalized surface that was part map, part squashed-together cartoon, part written commentary and all art. His mature works, mostly paintings on paper from the early 1970's, teem with tiny caricatures of politicians and current events (the Vietnam War, the coup in Chile) and startling statistics about economics and world history, while glowing with rich color-coded hues (red for communism, blue for capitalism, green for the third world). At once grim and hopeful, these works depict the world as an absurdly evil place without seeming to lose their faith in humanity.
Such balance may stem from the fact that Mr. Fahlstrom leavened his art with large doses of humor and held pleasure (both his own and his viewer's) in high regard. His ability to be politically acute and visually entertaining is a lesson that more contemporary artists should absorb. ROBERTA SMITH

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (79%); CHILE (79%); UNITED STATES (73%); SWEDEN (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (79%); CHILE (79%); UNITED STATES (73%); SWEDEN (58%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS; ART SHOWS PAINTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); HISTORY (77%); VIETNAM WAR (66%); 

PERSON: FAHLSTROM, OYVIND; SMITH, ROBERTA ROBERT RAUSCHENBERG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



119 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Should Match Europe's Shorter Workweek

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Hasn't the time come to consider an American workweek more commensurate with the workweek of our friends in Europe? The latest international data of the Bureau of Labor Statistics are for 1991. They show that in Germany, Norway, France and Denmark the workweek -- including vacations and holidays -- averaged 30 hours. In Sweden it was 28 1/2 hours! Our American workweek, including vacations and holidays, averaged 37 hours. 
 Certainly, there's a strong prospect that with the surge of technology the most serious adverse effect on unemployment is yet to come.
Current 6.8 percent unemployment idles nearly 10 million American workers. It discourages 1 million more from trying to find a job. It forces 3 million who want and need full-time employment to work part time (usually 15 to 20 hours a week).
Here's why this will become far more serious: The door is now slammed shut on the kind of major increase in overall Federal spending that provided jobs in World War II and later in the cold war. The option of a stimulating multibillion-dollar tax cut as in the 1980's is also gone.
This is because an economy-stimulating fiscal policy runs up against a Federal deficit of $300 billion a year and growing and a national debt of more than $4 trillion, which imposes an insufferable annual interest burden of $220 billion, with more to come.
We are going to have to cut Federal spending and seriously consider raising Federal taxes to avoid national bankruptcy. Sure, there's enough waste in our military spending to make spending reductions, but those cuts will cost millions of jobs.
Unfortunately, the country is not ready for the shorter workweek. In coming years, however, as unemployment zooms, and the deficit and debt inhibit an adequate fiscal response, the country will be ready.
Management opposes such a proposal in the belief it will diminish the profit dividend from productivity and laying off employees. And many workers think the shorter workweek will cut their weekly pay.
I propose a kind of standby shorter workweek to go into effect as unemployment worsens. If and when my proposal goes into effect, both profits and wages will share the benefits of productivity with the additional workers and greater leisure.
The first step would only take effect after a year in which national unemployment exceeds 7 percent. Because unemployment will be less than 7 percent in 1993, there would be no shorter workweek until at least 1995.
My proposal would reduce the workweek from the 40 hours in the wage-hour law (without vacations and holidays) to 39 hours. If after three years, unemployment is still about 7 percent, the workweek (without vacations and holidays) would fall to 38 hours. If, after three more years unemployment exceeds 7 percent, it would fall again by one hour.
With productivity rising at 3 percent a year this reduction of one hour every three years would permit a roughly equal sharing of the benefits of productivity between more leisure, higher pay and increased profits.
The proposal responds to the visible reality of high unemployment, not the predictions of economists, which have proved so fallible.
I propose to make the employment effect of the wage-hour law more effective by requiring double time instead of time and a half for overtime. But I would not change the exemption from the overtime requirements for executives and administrators.
 
WILLIAM PROXMIRE
Washington, Oct. 27, 1993
The writer is former United States Senator from Wisconsin.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); DENMARK (92%); NORWAY (92%); SWEDEN (92%); GERMANY (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; EUROPE UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); DENMARK (92%); NORWAY (92%); SWEDEN (92%); GERMANY (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WORKING HOURS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); WORK WEEK (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); COLD WAR (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); TAX RELIEF (71%); TAX LAW (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); WORLD WAR II (67%); DEFENSE SPENDING (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: JOHN MAJOR (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



120 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Should Match Europe's Shorter Workweek;
Illusory Recovery

 BODY:
To the Editor:
You report Oct. 25 that President Clinton believes the economy has turned the corner, on the path of a steady recovery. To get a better perspective on this view I urge the President to visit Vermont, where in the last year a Digital plant has closed, St. Johnsbury Trucking has closed, Johnson Controls is planning a shutdown, I.B.M. and G.E. have slashed hundreds of well-paying jobs, and workers from several companies are negotiating give-back contracts. 
 I would hope that a President as intelligent as Mr. Clinton does not repeat the absurd economic dogma of Reaganomics. Job growth is not the equivalent of economic recovery. Mr. Clinton should pay attention to this month's Labor Department report, which indicates that we have lost 260,000 manufacturing jobs since last February.
Today, the percentage of our workforce engaged in the better-paying manufacturing sector is 50 percent of what it was in the 1950's, and the standard of living of working people continues to decline. As recent studies report, the vast majority of new jobs created in the private sector last year were temporary, low-wage jobs. This type of economic trend does not constitute recovery.
I was particularly disturbed to read that the President and his advisers have shelved proposals for a new stimulus program. While he may have shelved the concept, many of us in Congress have not.
Work is going on right now to develop a major jobs bill to put millions of Americans back to work at decent-paying jobs, rebuilding our decaying infrastructure and schools, and building the affordable housing we desperately need.
 
BERNARD SANDERS
Member of Congress, Vermont
Washington, Oct. 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: JCI (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (58%); SIC3822 AUTOMATIC CONTROLS FOR REGULATING RESIDENTIAL & COMMERCIAL ENVIRONMENTS & APPLIANCES (58%); SIC2531 PUBLIC BUILDING & RELATED FURNITURE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON CONTROLS INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VERMONT UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); VERMONT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); BERNIE SANDERS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993



121 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: As Rates Rise, Signs of a Shakeout Grow;
Stocks in Selloff For Second Day; Dow Loses 36.89

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
With their anxiety over rising interest rates apparently snowballing, investors hacked away at the stock market for a second day yesterday, forcing one of the most sweeping selloffs of the year.
The Dow Jones industrial average plunged 36.89 points, to 3,624.98, after falling 35.77 points on Wednesday. The steep two-day drop came after the index had hit four record highs since late last month. Declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange led advancing issues yesterday by more than 3 to 1. 
 Stocks in small- and medium-sized companies were battered again. The Nasdaq composite index plunged 15.69 points, to 757.26, after losing 12.71 points on Wednesday.
"The one thing that has sustained this market rise for two years now is actual and expected lower interest rates," said Harrison Roth, a first vice president at Cowen & Company. "Anybody who was waiting for a signal that interest rates were not going down has now gotten it."
"The market is ruled by a lot of factors, but the two most primitive ones are greed and fear," he added. "The first had ruled the roost until Wednesday morning, and then fear took over."
 
A Recovery Strengthens
 A jump in bond yields yesterday again seemed to feed the fears that investors would flee the stock market for the higher returns of fixed-rate securities. Long-term interest rates climbed yesterday to their highest level since Aug. 25, pushing the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond to 6.17 percent from 6.10 percent.
The yield apparently shot up because of new data that indicated the economic recovery was strengthening. The Government said the productivity of workers had improved, factory orders had increased and the number of unemployment benefit applications had declined.
And today, the Government is scheduled to announce the employment figures for October. Good economic news tends to depress bond prices and increase yields because the bond investors dislike inflation.
The spurt in bond yields also pulled down stocks in industries that are sensitive to rising interest rates, like banks, life insurance companies, stock brokerages, utilities and telecommunications companies. And it helped gold stocks, among the few bright spots in the market.
The Dow Jones utilities average plummeted 5.28 points, to 226.40, its lowest level in 10 months. The average fell 6.19 points on Wednesday.
Despite the steep and broad decline in the market, Alfred E. Goldman, the director of market analysis at A. G. Edward & Sons in St. Louis, said he was not worried. He said the market had surged forward for so long that the oft-cited correction was overdue and healthy.
"Everybody lost sleep Wednesday night, came in feeling grumpy and conjured up fears that in my opinion are not rational," Mr. Goldman said.
"I look at this as a normal timeout, not a top-out," he added. "People are forgetting that we had three up weeks in September and four up weeks in October. So we've had seven weeks on the upside. The market has just got itself a little bit overbought and a little bit overenthused."
 
Big Board Volume Drops
 Volume on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday was 323.4 million shares, down from 342.1 million shares on Wednesday, when computer-program trading was heavy. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks dropped 5.53 points, to 457.49. The American Stock Exchange composite index fell 4.17 points.
Among the telecommunications companies, Nynex fell 1 3/8, to 41; BellSouth dropped 7/8, to 60 1/2; Ameritech declined 7/8, to 83 3/8, and GTE was off 5/8, to 38 1/4. In the banking industry, First Interstate declined 2 1/8, to 54 1/8; Wells Fargo dropped 2 1/2, to 105 7/8; Bankers Trust was off 2 3/8, to 74 3/4, and Chemical fell 1 5/8, to 37 7/8.
The selloff on the Nasdaq carved into the technology stocks, which had led many recent rallies. Intel, the most active stock on the Nasdaq, fell 1 7/8, to 59; Cisco dropped 1 1/4, to 49 3/4; Oracle Systems declined 3 3/8, to 55 5/8, and DSC Communications plunged 3 7/8, to 58 3/4.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COWN (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: COWEN GROUP INC (83%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (73%); INSURANCE (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); PRODUCTIVITY (63%); LIFE INSURANCE (62%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN;

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1993



122 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW AUTO EMISSION TESTS DUE
To make the air cleaner, life will soon get more complicated for the owners of 5.8 million vehicles in New York City and vicinity. Beginning in 1995 or 1996, vehicles will have to undergo a new emissions test every two years. Page 1.

 SENATOR'S BROTHER SENTENCED TO PRISON
Armand P. D'Amato, who was convicted of mail fraud in connection with payments he received from a military contractor to lobby his brother, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, was sentenced to five months in prison and five months in home detention. Page 1.

NEW YORK CITY

 GIULIANI RECONSIDERS A STAND
Rudolph W. Giuliani said he would reconsider his pledge to abolish the Dinkins administration program that directs a share of city contracts for minorities and women. Page 1.
Giuliani said he would ask transition team members to pledge not to do business with city agencies for six months after the transition. Page 26.

 SAME STADIUM, NEW PLAYERS
Rudolph W. Giuliani was a Yankees fan long before he was elected Mayor of New York, and his devotion to the team will alter the public tone, if not the financial dynamics, of efforts to keep the team from leaving the city. Governor-elect Christine Todd Whitman has not been part of New Jersey's efforts to woo the Yankees, but she has quickly entered the game. Page 26.

 SETTLEMENT IN WRONG-MAN CASE
A cabdriver whose innocent stop at an automated teller led to the splashing of his face across the pages of two newspapers, along with a description of him as a serial rape suspect, has won a $300,000 settlement. Page 27.

 DEFENDANTS COMPLAIN ABOUT JAIL
Three of the 13 defendants in the Metropolitan Correctional Center in lower Manhattan awaiting trial in a bomb plot have complained of their treatment. Page 27.

 PENNIES SPURNED
There is only one place in New York City where you are guaranteed the right to turn in coins, including pennies, for bills, and that place is none too happy to accept your change. Page 27.

 REGION

 STABLE REPORTS BRING ANGER
In Westchester County, where residents spend $68 million a year on their horses, horse lovers reacted with anger to reports that nearly 100 Arabian horses were living without adequate shelter at a Yorktown Heights stable. Page 28.

 PROPELLER KILLS AIRLINE WORKER
An airline ground-crew worker at Newark International Airport was killed when she walked into the spinning propeller of a twin-engine aircraft preparing for takeoff. Page 28.

 UNEMPLOYMENT FIGURES RELEASED
New York State's unemployment rate rose to 7.9 percent in October, from 7.1 percent the month before. It was pushed up by the New York City rate, which rose sharply to 10.8 percent, from 8.7 percent in September. In New Jersey, the unemployment rate fell to 6.5 percent, from 8.7 percent the month before, according to figures released by the Government. Page 41.

 About New York by Michael T. Kaufman 27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES (82%); NEW YORK YANKEES (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (82%); NEW YORK YANKEES (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); PRISONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SENTENCING (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); HORSES (85%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (83%); EMISSIONS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); LOBBYING (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (76%); HOUSE ARREST (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (71%); BOMBINGS (71%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (71%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); MAYORS (67%); GOVERNORS (67%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (64%); STATISTICS (63%); AIRPORTS (60%); MAIL FRAUD (56%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



123 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Thousands of formerly discouraged job seekers returned to the employment market last month amid expectations of a recovering economy. Although payrolls expanded by 177,000 jobs, the big jump in the labor force pushed the unemployment rate up a tenth of a point, to 6.8 percent. [Page 41.]
New York State's unemployment rate rose to 7.9 percent from 7.1 percent, pushed higher by New York City, where joblessness rose to 10.8 percent from 8.7 percent. In New Jersey, the rate improved sharply, to 6.5 percent from 7.7 percent. [41.] 
 The White House strategy in challenging Ross Perot to a debate on Nafta is based on a calculation that the measure is in trouble in Congress and can be rescued if the opposition can be identified with Mr. Perot, Presidential advisers say. [1.]
 
Companies
QVC's board met to confirm terms of a $2 billion investment by BellSouth. There were also indications that Liberty Media, QVC's programming company, might retain an investment in QVC rather than sell its entire stake to BellSouth. [41.]
The struggle for Paramount Communications is pitting Hollywood deal makers against one another and putting their many relationships to the test. [41.]
Republic New York made a hostile merger offer for Green Point Savings, a mutual bank planning to convert to stock ownership. Republic's move seeks to block the conversion. [41.]
United Airlines offered its machinists an option to preserve more than 5,000 jobs in exchange for cost cuts. The offer could revive union efforts to buy a majority stake in United. [43.]
Litton Industries is leaving its palatial Beverly Hills headquarters for a no-frills office that more fits austere times. [43.]
I.B.M.'s senior vice president for strategy, M. Bernard Puckett, is leaving after holding the post just four months. [43.]
Nielsen Marketing Research's recently hired chief executive returned to his former employer, Information Resources. [43.]
Drug-dealing investigations at G.M. factories are being widened after 23 workers were arrested at two plants. [8.]
 
 International
European stock markets plummeted in what analysts said was a correction from record levels. Higher U.S. interest rates caused by a recovering economy also drew money out of equities. [41.]
France's Foreign Minister expressed pessimism over world trade talks, citing disagreements with the U.S. [5.]
 
 Markets
Stocks mounted a mild recovery after two sessions of steep declines. Investors appeared to shake off misgivings about rising interest rates, and the Dow gained 18.45 points, to 3,643.43. [42.]
Treasury bond prices sank for a sixth trading day, extending a three-week selloff fed by fears of inflation. [50.]
Gold prices soared to three-month highs amid further rising interest rates. [52.] The dollar was mixed. [52.]
 
Your Money
Picking a health care plan is more complicated than finding the one with the lowest monthly payment. Considerations include a family's particular needs, how an H.M.O. compensates its doctors and whether it covers aggressive new treatments. [39.]
Investors should be wary of sales pitches by brokers. Even big securities firms are capable of engaging in long-term fraud that could result in losses for unsuspecting customers. [39.]
Homeowners waiting for the absolutely lowest rates may be waiting in vain. Mortgage rates appear poised to continue moving higher, and today's levels may soon seem like a bargain. [40.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: QVCN (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (56%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AT&T SOUTHEAST (56%); GREEN POINT SAVINGS BANK (55%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%); NIELSEN MARKETING RESEARCH AS (53%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS EMPLOYMENT (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TAKEOVERS (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); BONDS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); MERGERS (67%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%); ARRESTS (61%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (61%); TREASURY SECURITIES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



124 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Dow Up 18.45 as Market Shakes Fears on Rates

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
After two sessions of steep declines, the stock market mounted a mild recovery yesterday, as investors appeared to shake off some of their misgivings about rising interest rates.
The Dow Jones industrial average nearly fell through the psychological barrier of 3,600 an hour after the opening bell, but an afternoon rally in tobacco and bank stocks pushed it to a close of 3,643.43, up 18.45 points. 
 Despite that gain, the market showed little breadth: declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbered advancing issues by about 3 to 2.
Yesterday's trading capped a rocky week. The Dow hit record highs on Monday and Tuesday, briefly crossing 3,700. But then it plunged on Wednesday and Thursday, losing 72.66 points amid investors' fears that rising interest rates on long-term Treasury securities would hurt the stock market.
For the week, the Dow dropped 37.16 points.
The selloff was so intense that the New York Stock Exchange said 1.55 billion shares were traded this week, the second-highest weekly total in history, after the volume during the week of the stock market crash in October 1987. The American Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq said they did not set weekly volume records.
 
Foreign Stocks Plummet
 The increases in most of the major market indicators yesterday came even though major foreign stock markets plummeted and bond yields rose because of encouraging jobs data. Investors may have felt that the American markets were ending a temporary dip in a climate that remained bullish, analysts said.
"Considering that the world markets took a hammering and considering the bond market, the stock market gave a good show of itself," said Lawrence R. Rice, an analyst at Josephthal, Lyon & Ross. "People are going home feeling a little bit better because the market had every excuse to take it on the chin again and didn't."
Volume on the Big Board was 336.9 million shares, up from 323.4 million shares on Thursday. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks rose 2.08 points, to 459.57. The American Stock Exchange composite index fell 2.20 points, to 475.33. The Nasdaq composite index rose 5.73 points, to 762.99, after dropping 28.40 points on Wednesday and Thursday.
The Dow Jones utilities average, which many analysts consider a key market indicator because its components are sensitive to interest rates, edged up 0.86 point, to 227.26. The utilities average had fallen on Thursday to its lowest mark in 10 months, spreading anxiety among many investors.
The afternoon rally was led by tobacco stocks, which rose amid speculation that the major tobacco companies were ending their price war. Philip Morris jumped 2 7/8, to 55 1/2; American Brands shot up 2 1/8, to 34 3/4; UST increased 7/8, to 26 1/8, and RJR Nabisco was up 5/8, to 6 1/2, in very heavy trading.
 
Bank Stocks Recover
 Bank stocks, which had suffered because of fears of higher interest rates, also recovered. Citicorp was up 1 5/8, to 36 3/8; Chase Manhattan jumped 1, to 32 3/8; J. P. Morgan rose 1 1/8, to 69 7/8; Chemical increased 1, to 38 7/8, and Bankers Trust shot up 1 1/8, to 75 7/8.
Larry M. Wachtel, an analyst at Prudential Securities, said the recent trading might have steadied the market after weeks of hefty increases. He noted that the frenzied buying of stocks like Newbridge Networks and Cisco Systems, two high-technology issues that had propelled the Nasdaq, might have overheated the markets.
"For about a month or two, the Nasdaq volume exceeded the Big Board volume and the initial public offering market was going nuts," he said. "When you have the secondary market volume exceed the Big Board volume, it means that people are more speculative. It's froth, it's excess. When it's happening, everybody is enjoying it, but from time to time you need a reality check."
Mr. Wachtel added that he was not optimistic about the pace of the economic recovery, noting that the new Government data that spooked the bond market this week were not conclusive.
"I question whether the increase in interest rates is going to continue," he said. "And if we could get stability in the rates, then we might get a sense of bottoming in the stock market. As far as I'm concerned, we had a three-day vicious bear market, and given that shakeout, the market is a little bit better for it."

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (53%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); PRICE CUTTING (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); TOBACCO MFG (60%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



125 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: European Stocks Plummet After Long Climb

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 5

 BODY:
European stock markets plummeted today after a yearlong climb that has taken many exchanges to record levels.
British shares fell more than 2 percent, the French bourse 2.57 percent and the German stock exchange 2.43 percent as shifting outlooks for the United States and European economies prompted many investors to take profits. The falls capped a week-long retreat, with the London exchange down 2.7 percent, Frankfurt 2.7 percent and Paris 5 percent. 
 In the United States, stocks ended a confused week by bouncing back a bit after two days of sharp declines that followed two days of record closes. The Dow Jones industrial average almost fell through the psychological barrier of 3,600 an hour after today's opening bell before an afternoon rally in tobacco and bank stocks pushed it to a close of 3,643.43, up 18.45 points. For the week, the Dow was down 37.16 points. [Page 42.]
Analysts said that some correction in European markets was overdue. Over the year, in local-currency terms, the London stock exchange has risen about 40 percent, the Italian 66 percent, the French 31 percent and the German 35 percent.
These gains have come despite a severe European recession. The rises have been fed mainly by gradually falling interest rates and the expectation of further cuts, which have prompted investors to bet on a European economic recovery in 1994 and to seek higher returns through the stock market.
"The markets were certainly vulnerable to an adjustment," said J. Paul Horne, the chief European economist at Smith Barney. "Nervousness was compounded this week by fears that the European recovery next year will be weak, that world trade talks could collapse and that further interest rate cuts from the German Bundesbank may not come for a while."
The changing outlook for the American economy has also caused unease in Europe. Although reports this week have been positive, they have upset many investors' predictions.
Already, signs that a recovery in America is picking up steam have caused concern that inflation may rise in the United States. This in turn has led to a sharp turnaround in the American bond market, where yields have risen in the last week or so.
Declines in bond yields and low American interest rates over the year have fed the stock rally in America by encouraging many American investors to switch to Wall Street in search of higher returns. Europeans now fear this trend may be exhausted. Any fall in the American stock market, or uncertainty over its direction, is quickly reflected in Europe.
Although the plunge today in Europe was marked, most analysts said there was little likelihood of a huge selloff. The continuing recession has kept pressure on various central banks, particularly the German bank, to lower interest rates and that in turn should help stock markets.
Reports are beginning to emerge from both France and Germany suggesting that the recession may have hit bottom. These could have a positive effect on markets, which have effectively been betting for some time on a recovery that has been repeatedly postponed.
But analysts said the most decisive short-term influence on European stocks would probably come from the United States bond market, whose abrupt turnabout fed today's selloff. "The U.S. Treasury bond market is the absolute key in the short term," Robin Aspinall, an economist at the investment firm Panmure Gordon told Reuters.
Beyond that, the outcome of long-stalled world trade talks, for which a Dec. 15 deadline has been set, will have a significant influence on the European investment climate, analysts said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (88%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; FRANCE; GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (88%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); INTEREST RATES (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); TRENDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



126 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Job Seekers Outpace Hiring Rise

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5

 BODY:
Expectations of a recovering economy sent thousands of formerly discouraged job seekers back into the market last month, pushing the unemployment rate higher despite further expansion in the number of jobs.
Payrolls expanded by 177,000 jobs and factory employment ended a seven-month slide, the Labor Department reported today, but the unemployment rate edged up a tenth of a point, to 6.8 percent, because people entered the labor market at a faster rate than jobs were created. 
 The notion that more workers were coming to believe that the economy's slow recovery was real sent jitters through the bond market, where traders expect inflation and higher interest rates to accompany economic growth. Treasury bond prices fell today as investors sold securities and interest rates rose. [Page 50.]
 
 
Overtime and Temporary Help
 Although the rise in payroll jobs last month was the largest in three months, there were two clear indications that employers remained cautious about adding to their payrolls. And economists predicted that hiring would continue to be restrained.
One sign was that nearly 40 percent of payroll expansion last month was at temporary-help agencies, a group that has been posting big gains for nearly two years. Another was that the length of the factory workweek and the amount of factory overtime set or matched postwar records.
With companies having shed thousands of workers during the recession, they remain reluctant to add employees as the economy expands, hoping to increase profits as sales rise by keeping costs low. While orders are picking up, the extra work is being handled by existing workers on overtime or by temporary help.
Only in the South was there much change in the regional labor markets -- the Southern jobless rate rose to 6.5 percent from 6 percent.
New Jersey showed a drop of 1.2 points. But in New York State, the unemployment rate climbed eight-tenths of a point, to 7.9 percent. In contrast to New Jersey, where the labor force was essentially unchanged, New York's grew by 140,000, twice the number of new jobs.
Of the new jobs last month, only 12,000 were at factories. But that ended a streak of monthly declines that has cut employment in manufacturing by more than 250,000 since February. Much of the net improvement was in motor vehicle production and in construction. About 30,000 jobs were added in construction, the most since May.
 And there were sizable gains of 20,000 in finance, insurance and real estate and 29,000 in health services, the Labor Department's survey of payrolls found.
Largely offsetting these gains, however, were declines in military aircraft and instruments and in various industries producing nondurables, particularly apparel.
Traditionally, ever-rising amounts of overtime have been considered good omens for the labor market, and President Clinton's chief economic adviser, Laura D'Andrea Tyson, expressed this hope again today.
"As the recovery continues to pick up pace a bit," she said in an interview, "one would anticipate that employers in manufacturing will go from increasing hours to increasing jobs."
But the length of the factory workweek has been flirting with record levels all year, and many economists remain doubtful that a burst of fresh hiring is imminent. They cite, among other things, fierce competition that continues to spur corporate cost-cutting and risks from various Government policy actions, particularly the overhaul of the health care system.
"We're substituting capital for labor here," said Lincoln F. Anderson, a former Washington economist who is now with Fidelity Management and Research, the Boston-based mutual fund giant.
"The real strength in the economy has been centered in capital-goods spending," with businesses investing in new equipment rather than expanding their payrolls.
Today's labor-market report showed the work force expanding by a huge 739,000 last month. The rise is only slightly less if no adjustment is made for recurring seasonal variation.
Nearly two-thirds of the extra workers found jobs, but about a third did not, and as a result the ranks of the jobless swelled by 269,000, the biggest increase in 16 months. The one-tenth of a point rise in the unemployment rate, however, is considered by the department to be statistically insignificant.
Katharine G. Abraham, the newly installed Commissioner of Labor Statistics, told the Joint Economic Committee of Congress that the increase in the labor force could not be fully explained. While some people "may have perceived a recent improvement in job opportunities," she said, others may have entered the work force for other reasons, and fewer people than usual may have decided to leave the labor force.
The jobless rate among teen-agers and Hispanic workers climbed by 2 percent and 1.8 percent, respectively, while the rate for blacks eased nine-tenths of a percent, the department's survey of households also showed.
 
 
 
Longer Workweeks
 The number of part-time workers who said they would have preferred to work full time dropped by 323,000 last month, to 6.2 million. This meant that the so-called partly unemployed receded to about the March level after fluctuating around 6.5 million for most of the intervening period.
The average private-sector and factory workweeks edged up six minutes, the survey of payrolls showed. Factory overtime increased by 12 minutes to the highest level since those records began to be kept, in 1956.
A related positive figure in today's report was a rise to 124.7 from 123.8 in the index of aggregate weekly production hours, widely watched as an indicator of industrial output to be reported at midmonth.
Officials reported that preliminary tabulations for the annual benchmark revision will show employment rose 250,000 for the first quarter of 1993, up two-tenths of a percent and within what it called normal tolerances.
For the current quarter, the department said it was assuming 96,000 jobs in new companies not captured by the survey, up from 74,000 in the July-September period.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; HIRING AND PROMOTION EMPLOYMENT (97%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); OVERTIME (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); BONDS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); WORK WEEK (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR BILL CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



127 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Rate Rises to 7.9% In New York

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
New York State's unemployment rate rose to 7.9 percent in October from 7.1 percent in September, with the anemic New York City economy dragging down the rest of the state, the Government said yesterday.
In New Jersey, the unemployment rate fell sharply, to 6.5 percent from 7.7 percent. Connecticut is not among the states for which the Government provides monthly figures. 
 In New York City, unemployment rose sharply, to 10.8 percent in October from 8.7 percent in September. Unemployment in the city had not exceeded 10 percent since February.
 The rates, released by the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, suggested scattered signs of economic expansion for a region that was among the first in the nation to sink into recession and is now experiencing a more sluggish recovery than most others.
Across the region, the report said, the number of people in the civilian labor force -- those either working or looking for work -- increased in October. In New York City and New York State, part of the increase in the unemployment rate was attributed to large numbers of people who have begun seeking jobs again after having stopped looking for work earlier in the year. The number of these people was greater than the number of new jobs created in the month, pushing the jobless rate higher.
"It is very difficult to conceive of a scenario that gives you a healthy regional economy without New York City," said Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, the New York regional commissioner for the Bureau of Labor Statistics. "The city is now the main issue," he said, and a "major drag."
 
 
New Jersey Looks Brighter
 The clearest improvement was in New Jersey, where the number of people working rose 1.5 percent in October, to 3.7 million, while the number of unemployed fell sharply, to 256,000, from 303,000 in September.
Even for New Jersey, however, the improved unemployment rate in October provides no assurance that the recovery will move more swiftly.
One reason is that the jobs improvement followed a series of sharp swings in recent months, and New Jersey's rate of 6.5 percent in October did not represent a drastic change from June and July, when the rate stood at 6.9 percent.
Another reason to temper economic optimism for the state, Mr. Ehrenhalt said, is its close ties to New York City, to which 250,000 people from New Jersey commute to work each day. For New Jersey, "the October numbers tell we are in a clearing, but not that we are heading out of the woods," he said.
The regional spillover of New York City's problems were even clearer in the rest of New York State. Despite pockets of economic distress north of the city, particularly layoffs by the International Business Machines Corporation, Mr. Ehrenhalt said the unemployment rate for the state would have been far lower -- about 6 percent instead of 7.9 percent -- if New York City had not been included.
Despite its prolonged sluggishness, the New York regional economy was not the worst in the nation, the Government said in a report covering 11 leading industrial states.
In California, which has led all of the states in unemployment for most of the year, the rate rose to 9.8 percent in October from 9.4 percent in September. In Illinois, the October rate was 7.8 percent, and in Texas it was 7.5 percent.
The Government said that the unemployment data reflected leaner employment rolls at companies that have cut thousands of workers and have not hired many back now that economic activity is picking up. It said one measure of the trend came in data that showed that the average workweek for factory workers across the nation was 41.6 hours, matching a post-World War II record.The lengthening workweek means that companies have decided to pay their current employees overtime instead of hiring workers.
Mr. Ehrenhalt said the average factory workweek in New Jersey was 41.4 hours in October, slightly less than the national average. In New York State, it was 39.9 hours.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graph: "The Labor Picture in October" shows unemployment and employment rates for October. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (60%); IBM (NYSE) (60%); IBM (LSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (60%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (92%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (92%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (95%); EMPLOYMENT (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); STATISTICS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



128 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: The Quality of Older Life;
Study Finds Stable Neighborhoods and Local Services Crucial for Aging New Yorkers

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN TELTSCH

 BODY:
Among the rapidly growing population of older people who call New York City home, what home often means is the neighborhood within 10 blocks of where they live.
Even those who drive, take subways or occasionally travel outside the city tend to focus on their immediate community for most daily activities, like marketing, banking, visiting and worshiping. Many have spent at least 25 years in the same neighborhood, frequently in the same apartment. 
 Just how essential a stable neighborhood is to aging New Yorkers is a central theme that emerges from a new survey, "Growing Older in New York City in the 1990's," which examines the experiences and concerns of 1,570 older residents of New York City.
Dr. Fernando Torres-Gil, United States Assistant Secretary for Aging in Washington, said the study made clear the need for urban planners to look at older residents as taxpayers and as a valuable stabilizing force in arresting the decline of cities.
"After the Los Angeles riots, the single group that fought hardest to restore peace and rally neighbors to get the kids off the streets was the seniors," he said. "It's unfortunate economic developers are ignoring their role in rebuilding cities and renewing neighborhoods."
One service that the study determined that many people could not find close to home was health care -- a finding of particular interest when the Clinton Administration is promoting a health plan emphasizing community-based services, according to Dr. Rose Dobrof, a vice president of Hunter College who helped coordinate the survey.
The study was based on face-to-face interviews in 1990 and 1991 by Louis Harris & Associates. Analysts from Fordham and Columbia Universities used information gathered from the study to offer a portrait of the city's older population: at least 1.3 million people who are over 60, and of these, 953,000 over 65.
The study provided intriguing insights into the backgrounds of older New Yorkers (of those born in the United States, 88 percent of the whites were born in the Northeast and 60 percent of the blacks were born in the South) and into their lives today (only 39 percent said they had a friend or confidant who was not a relative).
Several study participants agreed to interviews after it was released. Seymour Glickman was one of them.
At 73, and married 45 years, he is spending his retirement years in Brooklyn, where he has lived for 45 years.
In good weather, he fishes from the Canarsie pier or "bums the island" in his sports car searching for the ideal eating place. The library is nearby, coffee at his favorite diner is his club. He chooses to stay in New York,
And he has chosen to stay, even as family and friends have moved away, despite some reservations about the city he loves.
 
'A Special Breed'>
 "I used to think New York was the cat's meow -- that's an expression we used when I was young -- but my enthusiasm has eroded some because of the crime in the streets," he said. "Still, New York is very special and New Yorkers are a special breed. They have attitude."
The study found fear of violence increased as people got older and frailer, leading most to stay at home after dark. But less than 4 percent of those in vigorous health said they feared going out alone in daytime.
Marion Britt, who will turn 80 this month was, for much of her life, a hotel housekeeper at the Allerton House for Women, working the night shift and returning home at 2 A.M. without worrying about her safety.
"That was then," she said. "Now the city is different, but I still go where I want -- but not at 2'o clock in the morning."
Mrs. Britt, who has been widowed for 13 years, prides herself on being independent. Hospitalized a year ago after a stroke, she recalled, "I couldn't wait to get away from people doing for me and get home."
She lives in an apartment in East Harlem with the family of one of her six children.
"They live with me; I don't live with them," she says emphatically.
The study also analyzed the income of older residents, exploring how many managed to survive financially. Most said they depended on their monthly Social Security checks. Half of those surveyed reported having difficulties managing on their income, and one in four live in poverty. About a third reported annual incomes of less than $10,000, 29 percent reported incomes of between $10,000 and $25,000, 14 percent between $25,000 and $50,000 and 4 percent above $50,000.
 
Life for Elderly Minorities
 The study did note marked improvement in the last two decades in the financial status of black New Yorkers because of pensions from civil service or unionized jobs -- but the survey also warned that changes in the employment picture could eliminate such pensions for future generations.
Growing numbers of elderly among minority groups present special challenges for the city in the future.
The number of older Hispanic New Yorkers living in poverty was twice the national average. The survey concluded that many aged Hispanic residents are not availing themselves of services to which they are entitled, both financial and medical, probably because of language barriers.
People over 60 already amount to a third of the population of minority groups, said Prema Mathai-Davis, Commissioner of the Department for the Aging. By the end of the decade, it is expected that this over-60 group will swell to almost two-thirds of the population.
Both the stability and the stresses of life in New York are illustrated in the lives of William Adams and his wife, Dorothy -- both 73 and married 53 years -- who are living in retirement in the Williamsbridge section of the Bronx, where they put down roots 30 years ago.
"This street -- Barnes Avenue -- was an unpaved road when we first moved here," Mr. Adams said. "There were farmlands near us."
But even as he and his wife lamented the fact that drugs are sold openly in what was once a safe haven, they made it clear that they plan to stay.
"When we visit friends, they say to us: 'We read terrible things about New York City. How can you stand it?"' he said. "We resist change. After three days watching the grass grow, we're glad to come home."
 
Many Widows>
 A substantial group of the city's older residents are women and widowed.
Maria Williams lives alone in the same sunlit apartment in Brooklyn's Bensonhurst section where she lived for 40 years and raised her children with her husband, a police officer who is now deceased.
She is 80 years old, with a heart condition that required a triple bypass, but that has barely slowed her activities.
"I still hop a bus and go everywhere," she said. "I go to church socials, flea markets and card parties -- never for high stakes -- and when I'm alone, I listen to radio talk shows into the night, and I swear. Of course I have crabby days but mainly, I keep busy. I make lampshades; I crochet. The first painting I did was a nude. My daughter would like me to move closer to her family, but I keep saying I have everything here. I mind my own business and I tell my neighbors, 'If you need me, just call.' "
Dr. Marjorie H. Cantor of Fordham, who helped analyze data from the study along with Dr. Barry Gurland of Columbia University's Center for Geriatrics, said the older New Yorkers in the study expressed a deep affection for the city.
Dr. Cantor, who worked on a 1970 study of aging New Yorkers, said, "Despite the increase in crime and the deterioration we see in the past two decades, the city is a much better place for the aging because of the services offered, the richness of the environment and the excitement around them, in contrast to rural or suburban living."
In the latest study, 59 percent of those surveyed felt positive about the city, with 13 percent rating it as a "very good" place to live while 46 percent rated it as "fairly good."
And supporting the overall conclusion about the importance of neighborhoods, 80 percent of those surveyed rated their immediate community as a very good or fairly good place to live.
The study was financed by philanthropies led by the New York Community Trust and its New York Center for Policy on Aging. Dr. James R. Dumpson, the center's chairman, directed the undertaking.
"Growing Older in New York City can be purchased from the New York Community Trust, 2 Park Avenue, New York, 10016 for $15 including postage.

GRAPHIC: Photos: For much of her life, Marion Britt, 79, was a hotel housekeeper, working the night shift and returning home at 2 A.M. without worrying. "Now the city is different, but I still go where I want -- but not at 2 o'clock in the morning" (pg. 25); "I still hop a bus and go everywhere," said Maria Williams, 80, who lives in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn. "I go to church socials, flea markets and card parties -- never for high stakes -- and when I'm alone, I listen to radio talk shows into the night, and I swear. Of course I have crabby days but mainly, I keep busy"; William Adams and his wife, Dorothy, both 73 and married 53 years, are living in retirement at their home in the Williamsbridge section of the Bronx, where they put down roots 30 years ago; In good weather, Seymour Glickman, 73, and married 45 years, spends time fishing from the Carnarsie pier in Brooklyn (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times); Mrs. Williams, left, and Marion Britt as young women. (pg. 29)
 
Chart: "SNAPSHOT: Older New Yorkers, at a Glance" -- A look at New Yorkers over age 60, based on a survey of 1,570 people by the New York Center for Policy on Aging of the New York Community Trust.
 
Where They Are From
Most United States-born white residents (88 percent) said they were born in the Northeast -- either New York, New Jersey or Pennsylvania. Most black residents (60 percent) were born in the South, with another third born in the Northeast. Almost all Hispanic residents born in the United States said they were born in New York State.
For statistical purposes, information about the Asians included in the sampling were folded into that of white residents.
 
Where They Get Things Done
In most cases, older New Yorkers use services within one to three blocks of home. In the month before the survey, 88 percent said they had gone to a grocery that close to home, 73 percent had used neighborhood banks, 72 percent had gone to nearby pharmacies and 53 percent had attended churches or synagogues.
 
Friends and Neighbors
Although 71 percent of those surveyed said they had someone with whom they felt close and could share a secret, only 39 percent said they had a friend or confidant who was not a relative.
The majority of the older New Yorkers who said they had friends had at least one friend nearby, either in the same building (31 percent) or within walking distance (46 percent).
About two-thirds said they knew at least one neighbor very well.
 
At Work -- Then and Now
Almost four-fifths of those surveyed reported that they had worked outside the home at some point as adults. Almost all (99 percent) of those who had not were women who were homemakers.
Of those who had outside jobs, 85 percent were now retired and 15 percent were still working full or part-time.
Among those still working, 53 percent reported they were working full-time.
 
 Crime
Fifty-four percent said that at some time in their lives they had been victims of crimes like muggings, purse snatchings or apartment burglaries. One-third said they had been a victim of crime in their neighborhoods.
The large majority of older New Yorkers (88 percent) said crime had little effect on going out alone during the day, but 65 percent said fear of crime kept them from going out alone at night. (pg. 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPOL (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: HARRIS INTERACTIVE INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AGED CITY LIFE (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); AGING TRENDS (78%); CITIES (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); TRENDS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); RIOTS (67%); RESTAURANTS (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: TELTSCH, KATHLEEN HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



129 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 54; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: Jose Ramos Lopez, 79, Former Assemblyman

 BODY:
Jose Ramos Lopez, the first Puerto Rican Democrat elected to the New York State Assembly from Manhattan, who went on to serve nearly 20 years as a judge, died on Thursday in a hospital in San Juan, Puerto Rico. He was 79 and lived in Bellerose, Queens, and Puerto Rico.
His family said he died of cancer. 
 Mr. Ramos Lopez, who moved to New York City from Puerto Rico when he was 28, was appointed a Deputy Commissioner of Correction in 1953. He was elected to the State Assembly in 1958 to represent East Harlem. In Albany, he sponsored bills to provide collective bargaining rights, unemployment insurance and workers' compensation for hospital workers. He also sought to ease voting restrictions for Puerto Ricans by omitting a literacy test for any who had voted previously.
In 1967 he was elected a Civil Court judge and in 1978 he was appointed an acting State Supreme Court justice, serving until his retirement in 1985 in the civil division of Supreme Court in Manhattan.
Mr. Ramos Lopez is survived by his wife, Aida; six daughters, Linda Radford, Dolores Saraceno, Marguarite Toro, Denise Grunti, Lissette and Lisa, all of Queens, and seven grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PUERTO RICO CONTAINER CO (92%); PUERTO RICO SAFETY EQUIPMENT CORP (92%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS ACQUISITION CORP (92%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CO (92%); PUERTO RICO SUN OIL CO (92%); PUERTO RICO TELEPHONE CO (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); DEATHS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); APPOINTMENTS (88%); JUDGES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (73%); HOSPITALS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (54%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (53%); 

PERSON: RAMOS LOPEZ, JOSE

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



130 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 52; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Drops Against Mark But Gains in Yen Trading

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell against the German mark yesterday in mainly technical trading. But it gained against the yen as Japanese stock prices continued to plunge.
In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.6935 marks, down from 1.6950 marks. Still, it rose to 108.40 yen from 108.23 yen. 
 The dollar lost ground against most European currencies, despite positive October unemployment numbers. The Labor Department said 177,000 jobs were created during the month, although the overall unemployment rate rose to 6.8 percent, from 6.7 percent in September.
The figures, which were in line with expectations, showed the first rise in manufacturing sector employment in three months and confirmed other recent data showing continued moderate economic growth.
"It was generally a good report, a strong report, showing hourly earnings rising," said William Arnold, vice president and chief currency dealer at the Chemical Bank. "That might lead to the question of why the dollar's not higher."
 
Rally Stalls
 After dropping in early trading after the release of the jobs report, the dollar strengthened against the mark. But the rally stalled as institutional investors sold large dollar positions taken during the week on a series of positive American economic reports, dealers said.
"The dollar really was just overbought and that corrected as people started to take profits on their positions," said Victor Polce, foreign exchange manager for Commerzbank in New York.
The dollar advanced for a second consecutive day against the yen in quiet trading. The market largely shrugged off a Japanese Government report that the country's current account trade surplus grew 10 percent in September from a year earlier, focusing instead on this week's decline of more than 9 percent in the Tokyo stock market.
Mr. Arnold noted that in the past, a big increase in Japanese trade surplus would have caused the yen to strengthen. "But the focus has been on the weakness of the Japanese economy and the stock market," he said.
The British pound rose in New York to $1.4840, from $1.4810 on Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (54%); CBK (FRA) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL BANK (56%); COMMERZBANK AG (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (88%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (93%); US DOLLAR (91%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); BRITISH POUND (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



131 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 52; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Pushed by Interest Rates, Gold Hits a 3-Month High

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Gold prices soared to three-month highs yesterday, extending their three-day surge to nearly $15 an ounce as rising interest rates continued to jolt the markets.
In very active trading on the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for December delivery climbed $5.40, to $377.80 an ounce, its highest level since Aug. 11. At one point, the gold futures contract traded as high as $381.20. 
 "It was just nuts, complete chaos," a Comex broker said. He noted that commodity fund traders were active buyers.
Other precious metals also gained. December silver rose 12.3 cents to close at $4.505 an ounce on the Comex, and January platinum was up $4.20 to end at $380.00 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 
Pushed by Interest Rates
 Behind the surge in gold and other precious metals is the sharp rise in interest rates, which had fallen to 25-year lows just last month. Yesterday the yield on the Treasury's 30-year bond rose to 6.20 percent; it had gone as low as 5.78 percent. The rising interest rates have also depressed stock prices.
Analysts said the rise in interest rates and the stock market's selloff earlier this week were pushing many investors to look for alternative investments, like gold.
"The move is on the stock and bond market; that's what's fueling this," said James Steel, an analyst at Refco Inc., a commodity trading firm.
Moreover, the prospects of an economic recovery, with the possiblity of rising inflation, have also contributed to gold's rise. Yesterday the Labor Department reported that a steadily expanding economy added 177,000 jobs in October.
Gold is getting an extra lift from rumors that the billionaire financier George Soros is moving out of the bond market and buying gold once more. Mr. Soros, who runs the Quantum Fund, had invested heavily in bonds, but the jump in long-term interest rates may have provoked the switch. He was partly responsible for setting off gold's surge earlier this year from a 10-year low of $326 an ounce to a three-year high of $414 in August.
Still, some analysts have strong doubts about gold's new surge. "It is entirely speculative," said Andy Smith, analyst at the Union Bank of Switzerland.
On other commodity markets, oil prices fell sharply amid reports of ample supplies. Crude oil for December delivery dropped 31 cents, to $17.09 a barrel. December unleaded gasoline posted another new five-year low, dropping 0.92 cent, to 47.05 cents a gallon. And December heating oil sank 0.84 cent, to 51.26 cents a gallon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (62%); UBS (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (66%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (62%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: REFCO INC (66%); UBS AG (62%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; GOLD; PRICES; INTEREST RATES GOLD MARKETS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); FUTURES (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); HEATING OIL (77%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); HEDGE FUNDS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



132 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Loans Rose 10.5% in September

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5

 BODY:
American consumers increased their borrowing at a 10.5 percent annual rate in September, the largest one-month jump in nearly six years, the Federal Reserve said today.
Analysts said the $6.68 billion advance, which brought outstanding credit to a seasonally adjusted $769.2 billion, fit with other recent signs that the economy had shifted to a higher gear. 
 The monthly gain was the largest since January 1988.
"The fact that people do have the confidence to purchase credit-related items is certainly goods news," said Sandra Shaber, an econmist with the WEFA Group in Bala-Cynwyd, Pa. "We've waited a long time, but it's finally happening,"
However, she cautioned, the increased borrowing that is fueling the gains in consumer spending is coming at the expense of Americans' rate of saving, which was just 4 percent of after-tax income in September. The low savings rate, she said, means that further employment and income growth are even more critical than usual to sustaining consumer spending.
During the recession and after, consumers reduced their borrowing and sought to pay off old debts. But, encouraged by low interest rates, they have been less hesitant about taking on new debt in the last year.
September marked the 11th increase in 12 months. Borrowing also increased strongly in August and July, both at annual rates of 8 percent.
By category, auto loans increased $2.28 billion, or a 10.2 percent annual rate, to $271.1 billion outstanding.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CONSUMER LENDING (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



133 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 3; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Q & A

BYLINE: By Leonard Sloane

 BODY:

Consolidating Student Loans
 
Q What is the best way to consolidate my educational loans, which vary in interest rate from 5 percent to 10 percent?
 
MARY ANN T. BANEZ, Baltimore
A Once a Federal student loan is in the repayment period, it can be consolidated with one loan servicer at one interest rate. Information about agencies that consolidate these loans is available at most college financial aid offices. 
By choosing a longer repayment period, the monthly payment can be reduced. But "the cost of the loan can increase significantly," warned Laurie Schaffler, associate director of educational financing of Columbia University. "The longer the repayment period extends, the more interest is charged on the loan."
If you want to pay off a loan ahead of schedule, though, there are no prepayment penalties.
 
Lower Refinancing Costs
Q What does no-cost refinancing mean?
 
IVAN SHORE, New Rochelle, N.Y.
A Some lenders may be willing to waive certain expenses -- like those for the application, appraisal and credit report -- and make a so-called no-cost mortgage loan. But in exchange for waiving these up-front closing costs, which might average $1,500 on a $100,000 mortgage, these lenders usually raise the interest rate on the mortgage by approximately 3/8 of a percentage point. This extra interest can amount to a substantial sum over the life of a 30-year loan.
However, "there are always costs associated with refinancing a mortgage which must be paid by the borrower," said Richard N. Cohen, a real estate lawyer at Shereff, Friedman, Hoffman & Goodman. "Such costs could easily exceed $1,000 for a typical closing."
Among the expenses that banks will not normally waive, he said, are the satisfaction fee in connection with the borrower's existing mortgage, short-term interest owed and tax and hazard-insurance escrow payments.
 
Early Bond Redemptions
 
Q Are there any exceptions to the general rule that an owner must redeem a bond when it is called by the issuer?
 
LUCILLE DOVE, Washington
A No. Whenever a bond is called, the owner must submit it to the bond issuer for redemption. Otherwise the owner will not receive payment for the bond's value or interest payments.
In the current low-rate environment, a large number of municipal and corporate issuers are exercising the call provisions on high-yielding securities. "Many investors are surprised when their bonds are called," said Richard F. Grabish, a vice president of A. G. Edwards & Sons. "It is very important for investors to study offering circulars and confirmation notices, so they will know whether the bonds being purchased contain call provisions."
Some bond owners, however, are confused about the difference between a call and a put. If a bond contains a call feature, the issuer has the right to demand redemption before the scheduled maturity date. On the other hand, a put provision entitles the owner to redeem the bond under predetermined conditions before maturity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (88%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: SHEREFF FRIEDMAN HOFFMAN & GOODMAN LLP (66%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); MARYLAND, USA (88%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STUDENT LOANS (93%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); BOND ISSUES (75%); CALLABLE SECURITIES (72%); CORPORATE BONDS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



134 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: FUNDS WATCH;
Low Interest Rates Lift the Bond Group

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
Most bond fund returns over the last three years have been extraordinary, thanks to a substantial drop in interest rates. Long-term rates have hit 25-year lows and short-term rates 30-year lows.
Investors should not delude themselves into thinking that this market behavior is the norm. "It's not at all in the cards that we'll have a similar decline from today's levels that would provide anywhere near the kind of strength in the bond markets which produced those returns in the last three years," said H. Bradlee Perry, senior partner at David L. Babson & Company, Cambridge, Mass. 
 Even so, he says, bonds are very attractive. Although inflation has returned to its 3 percent long-term average, bond yields have not. Long Treasuries yield 6.2 percent today, compared with their 5 percent historical average.
The most important factor is what will happen to inflation over the next few years. Because of excess capacity worldwide and increased international competition, Mr. Perry said he expected no more than a slight pickup in inflation.

GRAPHIC: Chart shows top five and bottom five bond fund categories, based on 1993 performance. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: DAVID L BABSON & CO INC (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; CORPORATE BONDS BONDS (93%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



135 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Warming Up to Global Warming

 BODY:
President Clinton's new plan to control global warming looks a lot more like something George Bush would dream up than like anything straight from the heart of Al Gore, the environmental conscience of the Administration. The plan relies heavily on voluntary actions, goes light on regulatory actions and remains silent on the enormously difficult problem of what to do to head off a big increase in greenhouse gas emissions after the turn of the century.
Even so, the plan is a reasonable response to a distant crisis whose dimensions are uncertain. This is not an issue on which the President should spend much political or economic capital just yet. 
 There is wide agreement that an accumulation in the atmosphere of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide, will make the world warmer than it would otherwise be. But there's little agreement about the magnitude of the warming and what damage it would cause. And that, in turn, makes it difficult to know how much money and effort to expend now to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
President Bush treated global warming as a secondary issue that required no strong governmental response. He strongly opposed setting any firm targets or timetables for reducing emissions, and almost singlehandedly blocked the setting of mandatory limits in the global climate treaty signed in Rio de Janeiro last year.
The Bush program relied mainly on voluntary actions by industry, most of which were already under way. These efforts, the Bush Administration calculated, would bring the nation within hailing distance of 1990 emission levels by the year 2000, but would not quite reach that goal. Thereafter, the emissions would soar upward again.
President Clinton has now greatly toughened the rhetoric while only moderately toughening the policies. He has called global warming "perhaps the biggest environmental threat to this planet," suggesting that he views the problem more seriously than did Mr. Bush. And he has pledged to bring emission levels in the year 2000 down to 1990 levels, thus imposing a mandate on himself that Mr. Bush declined to impose on the country.
But Mr. Clinton stopped short of proposing the corrective measures recommended by Mr. Gore in his book "Earth in the Balance," namely tougher mileage requirements for all cars and trucks sold in the U.S. and a carbon tax to discourage emissions. He, too, will rely heavily on voluntary actions by industry and individuals. Those would be backed up by new regulatory standards in a few areas, including residential appliances, electric transformers and landfill emissions.
The Clinton program has drawn criticism from disappointed environmental groups. But it is a reasonable response given the uncertain nature of the peril and the strong political opposition to new taxes and tougher mileage standards. Unlike Mr. Bush, Mr. Clinton is putting his own credibility behind the emissions-control effort. He has called for $1.9 billion in government spending, mostly redirected funds, by the year 2000. And his effort to enlist the aid of industry appears far more vigorous than Mr. Bush's.
Administration experts calculate that the program is strong enough to reach the goal for the year 2000. A White House team will monitor progress and ratchet up the effort if necessary. Mr. Clinton still has to tell us how to cope with vehicular emissions and a sharp rise in overall emissions after the turn of the century. But for now he has made a sensible start on an emerging problem that bears close watching.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (54%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; EDITORIALS; FORECASTS; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; WEATHER; CARBON DIOXIDE GLOBAL WARMING (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); METHANE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); NITROGEN OXIDES (76%); NATURAL GAS (76%); LANDFILLS (72%); AIR QUALITY (72%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); AL GORE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



136 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Religion Notes

BYLINE: By Ari L. Goldman

 BODY:

Party by Religion
The breakdown of religious affiliations within each major political party is pretty close to the breakdown of the nation as a whole, according to an analysis released after the elections this week.
 The Democratic Party, often seen as the home of Roman Catholics, is only slightly more Catholic in makeup (28 percent) than the Republican Party (24 percent). Twenty-six percent of those calling themselves independents are Catholic. The Republican Party is roughly even with the Democratic Party in the number of people who identify themselves as "born again" Christians (41 percent to 39 percent). 
 Proportionately, there is greater variation when it comes to the party affiliation of Jews. Among Democrats, 3 percent are Jewish. Among Independents, 2 percent are Jewish and among Republicans, 1 percent are Jewish.
The analysis is based on national voter surveys taken by the Gallup Organization throughout the 1992 Presidential election year. It was released by an affiliate of Gallup, the Princeton Religious Research Center, an affiliate of the Gallup organization. Sample sizes were 40,000 or more. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus 1 percentage point.
It was the first time such an analysis was done.
Among the other findings: Republicans are somewhat more likely to be church members than Democrats (79 percent to 71 percent), and members of both parties were about equal in their agreement with the statement that religion is "very important" in their lives (65 to 63 percent).
Republicans and Democrats had roughly the same number of people who profess no religious belief (6 percent to 7 percent), but independents had the largest proportion, with 13 percent.
Based on the analysis, politicians would be wise to stay away from narrow religious appeals, said the author of the study, Robert Bezilla. "They should not charge that they have the moral high ground and that their opponents are irreligious or nonreligious," he said. "The voters are interested in moral issues, such as abortion, but not on whether a candidate is a Methodist or a Catholic or a 'born again.' To most voters, that is irrelevant."
 
Aptly, in the Queen's Hands
 In London this week, Parliament gave its final approval to a measure that will open the priesthood to women in the Church of England. The House of Lords gave its overwhelming approval on Tuesday after a similar vote last week in the House of Commons.
The measure, which was initiated by the church leadership, requires government approval because it involves the state-sanctioned church. The measure now goes to Queen Elizabeth II, whose approval will make it law. Then the church's General Synod will put the change into effect.
The move to ordain women has prompted strong protests from some church conservatives, who see it as a violation of Scripture and as dividing the Church of England from the Catholic Church, which does not ordain women. Some members of the Church of England have left and joined the Catholic Church, including a former Bishop of London, Graham Leonard. Other members say they will leave after the first women are ordained.
Among the supporters of the ordination of women are the Archbishop of Canterbury, George L. Carey, who said in arguing for passage in the House of Lords: "We have well over 1,000 women deacons who are offering their skills and gifts to the service of Christ and many of them see this legislation as offering the fulfillment of their ministry."
The first women are expected to be ordained into the Church of England in April, after the Easter holiday, since ordinations do not take place in the pre-Easter Lenten season.
 
'Message to Women'
 Women have been ordained in the American branch of the Church of England, known as the Episcopal Church, for more than a decade. Three have been made bishops.
On Monday, one of them, Bishop Mary Adelia McLeod, was installed as the head of the 10,000-member Episcopal Diocese of Vermont. She is the first woman to head a diocese; the others assist diocesan bishops in Massachusetts and Washington.
"Our church really does allow for all of us to have a voice," Bishop McLeod said at her ordination in Burlington.
At her side for much of the two-hour service was her son, the Rev. Harrison McLeod, who was ordained in Alabama on June 5, the same day his mother was chosen by her fellow bishops to serve as Vermont's bishop.
"I think it is really a message to women," Bishop McLeod said of her installation. "It is a sign of hope."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY; GALLUP POLL GALLUP ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY; GALLUP POLL

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGION AND CHURCHES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); RELIGION (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); APPROVALS (84%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); WOMEN (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); BRITISH MONARCHS (65%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (57%); 

PERSON: GOLDMAN, ARI L ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



137 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-5
 
HAITI MILITARY REJECTS TALKS
Efforts to revive talks on the crisis in Haiti collapsed when military leaders failed to attend negotiations on restoring the exiled President. 1 

HOPES ON ISRAEL-JORDAN ACCORD
Reports that King Hussein of Jordan met secretly with Foreign Minister Shimon Peres of Israel intensified speculation that they had moved closer to a peace accord. 1
 
RUSSIA WARNS UKRAINE ON ARMS
Russia's Foreign Minister said Ukraine's nuclear warheads had deteriorated to the point where some of them could lead to an incident worse than the accident at Chernobyl. 5
 
SERBIA ARRESTS 18 IN MILITIA
The Serbian authorities arrested 18 leaders of a Serbian militia, charging them with murder, rape, kidnapping and illegal-arms possession. 5
 
U.S. WARNS LIBYA OF OIL BOYCOTT
After Russia dropped objections to sanctions against Libya, Washington warned Tripoli it could face a global boycott of its oil if it failed to hand over two bombing suspects. 4
 
BONN AIDE DENIES STARTING PANIC
Germany's Health Minister rejected accusations that he had helped fuel a panic by recommending AIDS tests for patients who suspected that they were infected by tainted blood. 5
 
TRADE STRAINS U.S.-FRENCH TIES
The Foreign Minister of France said that disputes over trade with the United States were poisoning their alliance and that differences were persisting over NATO's new role. 5
 
ZULU VENDETTA CLOUDS ELECTIONS
Across the mainly Zulu Natal Province, hate and fear have partitioned regions into one-party fiefs, raising doubts about elections in South Africa and about any governance. 3
 
Mogadishu Journal: G.I.'s try to deal with a hot and isolated outpost. 4
 
National 8-11, 32
 
F.D.A. APPROVES MILK HORMONE
After years of scientific and political debate, the Food and Drug Administration approved a genetically engineered drug that increases milk production in dairy cows. 1
 
STRATEGY BEHIND TRADE DEBATE
The North American Free Trade Agreement is in trouble and can be rescued if the opposition can be closely identified with Ross Perot, the President's advisers said. 1
 
The debate gives Mr. Perot more publicity than he could buy. 10
 
TEST CASE FOR RETRAINING
The experiences of workers who entered retraining programs when a Zenith television factory was relocated to Mexico in 1992 offer a preview of retraining efforts under the free trade agreement. 10
 
MORE JOBS, MORE APPLICANTS
Thousands of once-discouraged job seekers returned to the employment market last month. Although payrolls expanded by 177,000 jobs, the big jump in the labor force pushed the unemployment rate up a tenth of a point, to 6.8 percent. 41
 
THREAT AGAINST TOURISTS IN CUBA
A paramilitary group led by anti-Castro Cuban exiles threatened to harass, rob and even kidnap tourists who visit Cuba. 9
 
DRUG BUSTS AT G.M. PLANTS
Twenty-three General Motors assembly line workers were arrested for dealing cocaine and marijuana in two truck assembly plants, and the police widened investigations at other G.M. factories. 8
 
EASING RULES IN SEX CRIME CASES
Still anxious about the charge that it is insensitive to women, the Senate passed a measure to loosen rules concerning the admissibility of evidence in cases of rape and child molesting. 8
 
KEVORKIAN IS BEHIND BARS
Dr. Jack Kevorkian, jailed for the first time since he embarked three years ago on a campaign of physician-assisted suicide, again threatened to starve himself to death rather than remain behind bars. 8
 
PRIVATIZING THE SCHOOLS CHIEF
Like a corporation hiring a management expert to run its operations, the Minneapolis School Board voted to hire the president of a consulting firm as its new superintendent of schools. 9
 
HOLDING UP A DEFENSE NOMINEE
Morton Halperin was supposed to have spent this year fighting policy battles over Somalia and Bosnia. Instead, he finds himself fighting leftover cold war battles. 11
 
The religious makeup of parties parallels that of the nation. 32
 
Nineteen Time Inc., employees got flu shots with used needles. 8
 
Metro Digest 25
 
NEW EMISSIONS TESTS COMING
To make the air cleaner, the 5.8 million cars and other vehicles in New York City and vicinity will soon have to undergo a new emissions test every two years, at a cost of $25 a test, in addition to the annual safety check. 1
 
SECOND THOUGHTS ON CONTRACTS
Taking his message of reconciliation to areas that voted for his opponent, Rudolph W. Giuliani said he would reconsider his pledge to abolish the Dinkins program that reserves a portion of city contracts for minorities and women. 1
 
SENATOR'S BROTHER SENTENCED
Armand P. D'Amato, who was convicted of mail fraud in connection with payments he received from a military contractor to lobby his brother, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, was sentenced to five months in jail. 1
 
Business Digest 41
 
Arts/Entertainment 13-18, 56
 
Commemorating Monteverdi. 13
 
88 Picassos sold at Sotheby's. 16
 
Film: "The Northerners." 13
 
Ice Skating: "Aladdin." 18
 
Music: Sonny Rollins. 13
 
Sports 33-38
 
Basketball: Knicks win opener. 33
 
Nets drop opener. 34
 
Boxing: Holyfield's mission. 35
 
Columns: Anderson on boxing's heavyweights. 33
 
Araton on pro basketball. 34
 
Football: Giants' war of words. 33
 
Dolphins' defense resolute. 37
 
Wisconsin game secondary 37
 
Obituaries 54
 
Oscar I. Janowsky, ex-professor of history at City College.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 22-23
 
Editorials
 
Warming up to global warming.
 
Back from the nuclear brink.
 
My brother the clone.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: Mostest of the leastest.
 
Arkady G. Bronnikov: Body language.
 
Bridge 18
 
Chronicle 24
 
Crossword 17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ISRAEL (94%); JORDAN (94%); HAITI (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (92%); SOMALIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (79%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UKRAINE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ISRAEL (94%); JORDAN (94%); HAITI (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (92%); SOMALIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (79%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (87%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (85%); EMPLOYMENT (85%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (76%); APPROVALS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (74%); BOYCOTTS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (71%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (71%); RELOCATIONS (71%); US FDA APPROVALS (71%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (70%); CANNABIS (70%); POLITICAL DEBATES (69%); COCAINE (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); TRADE DISPUTES (68%); AIDS & HIV TESTING (66%); LABOR FORCE (65%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (64%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (60%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); MURDER (55%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%); 

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



138 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Opposes Amendment Requiring a Balanced Budget

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5

 BODY:
President Clinton informed Congress today that he opposed a proposed constitutional amendment to require a balanced budget, asserting that "it would promote political gridlock and would endanger our economic recovery." 
 In a letter to the Senate Majority Leader, George J. Mitchell, Mr. Clinton said such an amendment would require a combination of increased taxes on working families, massive cuts in Social Security benefits and major cuts in Medicare and Medicaid. He also said the amendment would be bad economics, suggesting that whenever the economy faltered, it would force Congress to increase taxes to close a deficit, thus worsening recessions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (57%); MEDICARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (57%); MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CONSTITUTIONS; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS BUDGETS (92%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); BUDGET CUTS (88%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); SOCIAL SECURITY (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); FAMILY (85%); TAX INCREASES (84%); MEDICAID (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



139 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1757 words

HEADLINE: After the Jobs Went South: A Town Finds Pitfalls in a Retraining Effort

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, Mo.

 BODY:
Bill Beeman thought maybe it was not so bad when the Zenith television factory here sent his job to Mexico. The Federal Government, after all, was offering a lifeline to workers hurt by foreign competition -- money to train for a new line of work.
"When I signed up," said Mr. Beeman, who is 42 and had worked at the plant for 23 years, "they said there would be enough funds there to get you through two years of school." 
 That was in May 1992. His books, tuition and a $170 weekly benefit check assured, Mr. Beeman, who tested television sets at Zenith, enrolled in the Ozarks Technical Community College to study electronics and to plan a career in computer operation. He has been rolling along, too, and in nine more months would theoretically be ready for a new job.
 
Lower-Paying Jobs, or None
 But there are a couple of problems with this rosy story. One is that Mr. Beeman's weekly benefit money has run out, for reasons that baffle a lot of program trainees. Another is that the jobs that Mr. Beeman and hundreds of former Zenith workers have been training for often pay much less than their former jobs, or simply do not exist.
The adjustments and headaches that Zenith's cast-offs are facing make Springfield a test case for the nation's ability to retrain workers who lose their jobs when companies relocate to foreign countries.
The Clinton Administration is eager to reassure workers anxious about the possible dislocations of the North American Free Trade Agreement. If the agreement is approved, the Administration would set aside $90 million to assist workers who might lose their jobs because of trade with Mexico. And the Labor Department plans to overhaul Federal unemployment assistance and training services for all Americans who have lost their jobs.
But there is widespread doubt about the utility of retraining programs. Last month, the Labor Department's own inspector general published a report critical of the Trade Adjustment Assistance program, which is intended to help workers like Mr. Beeman. The program succeeds in steering just one in five workers into jobs paying at least 80 percent of what their old jobs paid.
Springfield's experience suggests that retraining often helps displaced workers find better jobs than they might get otherwise, but that the new jobs are often much lower paid and less secure than Zenith's jobs.
Since the 1970's, the Zenith Electronics Corporation has reduced its work force here to 450 from 4,500. Zenith now employs 18,000 workers in Mexico and 6,000 in the United States, a company spokesman said.
Mr. Beeman and other former Zenith workers are luckier than most unemployed Americans. Because they are among the 30,000 people whose jobs are deemed to have been lost to imports, they qualify for the trade adjustment program, which pays them weekly benefits for up to a year and a half and tuition for up to two years of training. By contrast, most unemployed workers receive benefits for 26 weeks, sometimes with extensions.
 
Watching Benefits Dry Up
 Like many former Zenith workers, Mr. Beeman chose to train in a field that the Government had determined would produce good jobs, computers.
But on Oct. 13, the Missouri Division of Employment Security sent Mr. Beeman a letter telling him his weekly benefits had run out -- five months before he thought they would. The Federal Government begins counting workers' eligibility for the allowance from the date of their first layoff, whether temporary or not. Mr. Beeman and most other workers were laid off for a week in January 1992. He was then recalled and not let go permanently until May.
That meant his eligibility had begun running down in January, even though he did not start collecting an allowance until five months later. Mr. Beeman and others who are losing their allowances for the same reason may have to drop out of school.
Proponents of retraining, including Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich, urge training programs of up to two years, because they say the longer training leads to better jobs. But here, as in most communities, the Labor Department and state employment services tend to discourage workers from enrolling in longer programs. They think the workers will drop out of the programs when the living allowance is cut off after the maximum 18 months.
So they often encourage workers to take less training, and, as a result, less skilled, lower-paid jobs.
Stanley Seaman, a supervisor at the state employment service here, said he asks the former Zenith workers: " 'How are you going to support yourself while you're in training?' " They have to tell me how they are going to do that, or we can't approve their training. That's why we opt for the least amount of training possible."
Unlike many workers, those let go here can find jobs of some sort. Springfield, with a tourism industry fueled by the booming country music town of Branson, 35 miles away, has an unemployment rate of only 4.6 percent. But many new jobs pay little more than the minimum wage of $4.25 an hour.
Zenith's average wage is $8.02, low by national standards for factory jobs, but company-paid health and other benefits bring it close to $12.
Of the 673 former Zenith workers who registered for training or job-seeking help with a program here run by the Job Council of the Ozarks, 266 reported they had found jobs by mid-October. They reported receiving an average wage of $7.15 to $7.25 an hour -- less than $15,000 a year. Most of them either receive no health benefits or have to share the cost with their employers.
Seventy-two of the 266, including some who received job retraining, earn less than $6 an hour working as nurses' aides, janitors, file clerks, motel maids and cashiers at Wal-Mart.
 
Frustration and Low Wages
 Here is a look at the changes in the lives of some former Zenith workers who received training assistance.
Berny and Debbie Ihrig had both worked at Zenith on the same shift. Mr. Ihrig, 38, had worked there for 20 years; Mrs. Ihrig, 37, for 10 years. Each earned $8.50 an hour, for a total of about $35,000 a year, without overtime. Each has been retrained, but their combined income is now a little more than $20,000.
Two years ago, Zenith laid off Mrs. Ihrig (pronounced EYE-rig), and last year, Mr. Ihrig. Mrs. Ihrig took six weeks of training that led to a nurse's aide job paying $4.98 an hour. And after a nine-month course at Ozark Technical Community College, Mr. Ihrig became a surgical technician for $7.50 an hour.
But both were working nights. "We couldn't afford the day care," Mr. Ihrig said. So his wife quit her job and is now working for $4.35 an hour as an aide at their children's day care center, where she gets a break on the fees. The Ihrigs have to pay $100 a month for health insurance through his employer -- it had been free when he was at Zenith.
The Ihrigs, who have two children, 3 and 4, live on an 80-acre farm with 16 cows and 11 calves 38 miles northwest of Springfield. But the farm and cattle are up for sale.
"I'll sell the cows and the farm and move to town," Mr. Ihrig said.
Margaret Claspill, by contrast, shows how greater training to learn higher skills pays off and why it is beyond the reach of many workers. She is nearing the end of a two-year program at St. John's Hospital to become a registered nurse there, a job that will pay about $12.50 an hour.
Ms. Claspill, 49, who is divorced and has two children in their 20's, lost her job in December 1991 after 23 years as a technician at Zenith, where she was paid $10 an hour.
Knowing she would probably lose her job, she visited a state employment counselor a year beforehand and had been encouraged to continue working toward the nursing degree for which she had started training part time. The counselor warned Mrs. Claspill that she would run out of income before her two-year training program ended.
"She asked me, Was there a way I could foot this bill myself then? So I started working all the overtime I could," Mrs. Claspill said. "I worked double shifts to get the money.
"I think it's wonderful for anyone to try to do what I did. But it's not realistic."
Many older workers say they are stunned to find how little the job market values their experience at Zenith.
Judy Brickner, 51, was laid off in May 1992 after 25 years at Zenith, where she earned $8 an hour. When she left Zenith, her husband, Gerald, was just getting started as a self-employed photographer.
Mrs. Brickner, who has two grown children, took courses in mathematics, English and computers. She dropped out after seven months. "I did it until I got tired," she said.
She has been looking for a full-time job for more than a year. The mortgage on the Brickners' house is paid off, and they have no other debts. But they are now stuck with a $300 monthly bill for their own health insurance that Zenith once covered.
Looking for a job, she said, was a little demeaning. "The kind of work I'm finding is minimum-wage or part-time," she said. "If you look in the paper, you see ads for cooks, waitresses and motel maids."
Mrs. Brickner has just taken a job at Wal-Mart. It pays $4.50 an hour, 25 cents more then the minimum wage.
The Beemans had already retrenched by the time he was laid off. In 1987, after Zenith cut the pay of workers by 8 percent, Mr. Beeman and his wife, Latrisia, 41, a $6.50-an-hour office manager, sold the house they had just bought for what they had paid, about $47,000. The couple and their 13-year-old son are now renting.
One morning before classes, Mr. Beeman, in a gray pin-stripe suit, returned from interviews for part-time jobs at Radio Shack and Service Merchandise. To make up for the benefit check he had lost, he would have to work 40 hours a week at the minimum wage.
"I worked all the way from assembler to technician," he said. "I took all the schooling that Zenith offered. But when I left, their certificates were worth nothing. Now here I am trying to better my education and be a more productive human being. Why can't they just say, 'This person is trying. Let's help him.' "
Days later, he accepted a sales job at Service Merchandise at $5 an hour, just over half his Zenith pay of $9.76. So far the store has needed him only six hours a week, so he is looking for another job.
Mr. Beeman recently wrote a letter of complaint to President Clinton. "It's hard," he wrote, "not to question both your commitment and the Federal Government's commitment to retraining displaced workers."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I took all the schooling that Zenith offered," said Bill Beeman, after the company moved his job to Mexico. "But when I left, their certificates were worth nothing. Now here I am trying to better my education and be a more productive human being." He attends the Ozarks Technical Community College in Springfield, Mo., where he studies electronics and plans a career in computer operation. (Ted Reisinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ZE (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (91%); 

CITY: SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ZENITH ELECTRONICS CORP ZENITH ELECTRONICS CORP (61%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZENITH ELECTRONICS CORP NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; SPRINGFIELD (MO) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (91%); SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; LAYOFFS (LABOR); RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; FEDERAL AID (US) ; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; WAGES AND SALARIES EMPLOYMENT (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (86%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (75%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (70%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (64%); RELOCATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: BEEMAN, BILL ; KILBORN, PETER T HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



140 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Serbia Arrests 18 Leaders Of Opposition Party Militia

BYLINE: By CHUCK SUDETIC, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Yugoslavia, Nov. 5

 BODY:
The Serbian authorities have arrested 18 leaders of a Serbian militia, charging them with murder, rape, kidnapping and illegal arms possession, the republic's Police Ministry announced late Thursday.
Those arrested were members of the Chetnik Movement, the paramilitary wing of the militant nationalist Serbian Radical Party. The party, led by Vojislav Seselj, has gained enough popularity over the last two years to challenge the Serbian Socialist Party of President Slobodan Milosevic. 
 Last week Mr. Milosevic dissolved Parliament after the Radicals moved for a vote of no confidence that would have toppled the Socialists, and the arrests this week were seen as a further attempt by the Serbian President to silence the Radicals' criticism.
International human-rights watchdogs and the United States have labeled Mr. Seselj and individual Chetniks war criminals in connection with killings of civilians during "ethnic cleansing" operations in Croatia in 1991 and in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1992 and 1993. Leaders of Croats and Hungarians in Serbia have also charged for over a year that the Chetniks have terrorized members of those minority groups in an effort to drive them from their homes.
 
Crimes in Serbia Charged
 The arrests were all on charges related to acts committed in Serbia itself, a Police Ministry statement said.
Mr. Seselj, a lanky former Communist who once called on his partisans to "scoop out the eyes of Croats with rusty spoons," was described by Mr. Milosevic last year as his "favorite" opposition politician. But in September Mr. Milosevic turned on Mr. Seselj, calling him a war criminal.
Today, Mr. Seselj condemned the arrests and called them part of a campaign to defame the Radicals, who had 73 seats in the 250-member Parliament to the Socialists' 102. When he dissolved Parliament on Oct. 20, Mr. Milosevic called new elections for Dec. 19.
"The goal is to discredit the Serbian Radical Party using the mass media," Mr. Seselj said. "This is a component part of their election campaign. This campaign will end with the political crushing of Slobodan Milosevic."
But polls over the last week indicate that the Socialists will reclaim a majority in Parliament in the coming vote.
The Radicals accuse the Socialists of plunging Serbia into economic chaos and of betraying the Serbs' national interests by supporting a "compromise" peace plan aimed at ending the war in Bosnia.
Mr. Milosevic attacked Mr. Seselj in an interview televised on Wednesday, in which he ruled out any Serbian participation in international talks aimed at ending the Bosnian war until the United Nations lifts the economic sanctions that have crippled Serbia, which with Montenegro is part of the remaining Yugoslav federation.
"Arrogant, wealthy and armed people will not be a model to be followed in Serbia for much longer," Mr. Milosevic said in a thinly veiled reference to Mr. Seselj. "I do not want to specify which parties I would cooperate with, but it is certainly with all democratic forces, and most certainly not with the forces of darkness, fascism and crime."
The arrested Radicals included Branislav Vakic, a deputy in Yugoslavia's federal Parliament. In June Mr. Vakic assaulted an opposition-party deputy, touching off violent Belgrade street demonstrations that led to the death of a police officer and the arrest and beating by the police of Vuk Draskovic, a political enemy of both Mr. Milosevic and Mr. Seselj.
 
Radical Accused of 4 Murders
 The police charged another Radical, Milenko Petric, with murdering four people in Vojvodina, a region of Serbia with a large Hungarian population.
But Western diplomats called the arrests a purely political move.
"This is not a blow against war criminals," a Western diplomat said. "If the regime were serious about arresting war criminals, they could look elsewhere and find a notorious war criminal who is running a national campaign."
The diplomat was alluding to the leader of the new Serbian Unity Party, Zeljko Raznatovic, a Belgrade underworld figure and reputed secret-police assassin. His paramilitary group, the Tigers, has been named by human-rights organizations and the United States in connection with atrocities in Croatia and Bosnia.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
MUSLIMS LOOT SEIZED TOWN
 VARES, Bosnia, Nov. 5 (Reuters) -- Bosnian Army troops and United Nations forces tried to restore order in Vares today as Muslim soldiers continued looting the town.
A day after the Government troops seized Vares, abandoned by Bosnian Croat forces, pillaging was still going on, Bosnian officers and United Nations peacekeepers said.
"The biggest problem has been Bosnian Army units organized from refugees," said Ekrem Mahmutovic, commander of a Bosnian Army unit in Vares. "Those who have lost everything tried to get back what they lost. What they did was wrong."
Swedish peacekeepers trying to halt the looting were reinforced by French troops sent from Sarajevo, about 30 miles to the south.
 
Muslims Control Highway
 Bosnian Army and United Nations officials said that with Vares in hand, Muslim forces had complete control of the highway running north from Visoko through Vares and Milankovici to Tuzla.
The route links Zenica and Tuzla, the two big Muslim strongholds in central Bosnia, opening the way for civilian and military convoys.
A few Muslim and Croat families displaced by nearly two weeks of turmoil leading to the fall of Vares began returning home. But the Croatian radio said 2,000 Croats who fled Vares had arrived in the Serb-held town of Sokolac, east of Sarajevo. Other Croatian civilians were heading for Capljina, near the southern town of Mostar, Croatian radio said.
About 5,000 more Croats, roughly 1,000 of them soldiers, fled to the Croatian stronghold of Kiseljak to the south, United Nations officials in Sarajevo said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The body of an elderly man who was shot to death lay on the bank of a river yesterday in the central Bosnian town of Vares, north of Sarajevo. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Bosnia and Herzegovina showing locations of Belgrade and Vares.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); CROATIA (94%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA; CROATIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); CROATIA (94%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATROCITIES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LIBEL & SLANDER (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); MURDER (58%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); SESELJ, VOJISLAV; SUDETIC, CHUCK SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



141 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Warns Libya of Oil Boycott Unless It Gives Up Bomb Suspects

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 5

 BODY:
The United States warned Libya today that it may face a global boycott of its oil if it does not hand over suspected terrorists. The warning came after Russia, under Western pressure, dropped its objections to a new set of Security Council sanctions against the North African oil-producing country.
American officials said the Administration would press for a total oil boycott if the new limited trade and financial embargo just worked out between the United States, Britain, France and Russia does not prompt Libya to surrender the two suspects indicted in the bombing of Pan American World Airlines Flight 103, which exploded over Scotland five years ago with the loss of 270 lives. 
 Libya would also have to cooperate with a French investigation of the similar destruction of a French airliner over Niger in 1989 and satisfy the Secretary General of the United Nations that it has renounced support for international terrorism.
After trying for several weeks to design a new sanctions package that would force Libya to pay a $4 billion arms debt to Moscow, the Russians gave up the attempt today and settled for a resolution tightening existing sanctions while merely affirming "Libya's duty scrupulously to adhere to all its obligations concerning servicing and repayment of its foreign debt."
 
Debt Settlement Sought
 Russia initially threatened to veto the new sanctions -- which freeze Libya's foreign financial assets, tighten an existing ban on international air links with Libya and cut off exports to Libya of oil refining and pipeline equipment -- unless the Security Council also agreed to give Moscow the frozen financial assets in settlement of the debt.
When the United States and its allies refused, saying this would create a dangerous precedent that could weaken future sanctions against recalcitrant nations, Russia suggested that the other Security Council members advance it a $4 billion interest-free loan instead.
Russia apparently felt that since the proposed new sanctions had been carefully tailored to interfere as little as possible with Western Europe's economic relations with Libya, the Security Council should advance Russian economic interests as well by forcing Libya to pay for the arms it had bought.
The sanctions package would not interfere with the large oil and gas exploration contracts that a number of European companies have recently signed with Libya, including the French oil company Total, E.N.I.-Agip of Italy and Petrofina of Belgium. It also permits Libya to continue exporting the bulk of its oil to Western Europe. Although customers would have to deposit payment in specially designated bank accounts, Tripoli would still have access to these funds.
Moscow finally agreed to the sanctions only after President Clinton and the Prime Ministers of Britain and France wrote personally to President Boris N. Yeltsin this week warning that continued Russian stalling would jeopardize relations with their countries.
 
Council May Vote Next Week
 The new sanctions package, which the Security Council is expected to vote on early next week, will not take effect until a date to be set later this month and until after the Russian parliamentary elections planned for Dec. 12.
The new sanctions close down all foreign offices of Libyan Arab Airlines and require all countries to downgrade Libyan diplomatic missions in addition to freezing overseas financial assets and banning sales of equipment for oil refineries and pipelines.
American officials say the asset freeze would prevent Libya from receiving income and dividends from the extensive investments it has made in refineries, gas stations and other industrial undertakings in Western Europe. But the Tripoli Government has been given plenty of time to try to hide any cash deposits in overseas banks.
American officials argue that the new measures will increase the economic pressure to hand over the suspects for trial in Britain or the United States.
And there is evidence that the debate over whether to surrender them has deepened divisions in Libya and weakened support for its leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, in his armed forces. Earlier this month there were reports that Colonel Qaddafi had been forced to call in the air force to quell an insurrection at an army barracks near Tripoli.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
LIBYA DENIES ARMS PROJECT
 CAIRO, Nov. 5 (AP) -- Libya denied today that it was either producing chemical weapons or that it had hired Thai workers to help in such an effort.
Washington has accused Libya of building a chemical weapons plant near Tripoli and of contracting with Thai companies to work on it.
The official Libyan news agency, JANA, said Tripoli had repeatedly declared that it had no plans to produce chemical weapons and that it had called for an international agreement to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction.
The agency said the allegations were part of a United States campaign to discredit Libya. The Thais, the agency said, are working on a huge pipeline project to cultivate barren land.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TTA (LSE) (51%); TOT (NYSE) (51%); TOT (BIT) (51%); FP (PAR) (51%); FP (BRU) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (51%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); FRANCE (93%); SCOTLAND (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); NIGER (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BELGIUM (77%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

COMPANY: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC ; UNITED NATIONS (UN) PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (58%); TOTAL SA (51%); PETROFINA SA (51%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC ; UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA; LIBYA; SCOTLAND; GREAT BRITAIN ; FRANCE; NIGER UNITED STATES (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); FRANCE (93%); SCOTLAND (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); NIGER (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BELGIUM (77%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; TERRORISM; EXPLOSIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (84%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); VETO (77%); AIRLINES (75%); OIL EXPLORATION (73%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); INDICTMENTS (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); EXTERNAL DEBT (67%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: ;LEWIS, PAUL BILL CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



142 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Impasse Over World Trade Pact Poisons Ties to U.S., France Says

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 5

 BODY:
In an unusually somber assessment of relations between France and the United States, Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said today that disagreements in world trade talks were poisoning the alliance between the two countries while sharp differences also persisted over the new role of NATO.
With just over a month remaining until the deadline set by all parties to conclude long-stalled General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade talks, Mr. Juppe said, "I am not in the least optimistic because the United States is not negotiating at the moment." 
 "It won't be any use for Washington to present us with a cherry-topped cake 24 hours before the deadline and then expect us to agree," he said.
 
Eager to Improve Ties
 Mr. Juppe, a 48-year-old Gaullist who took office in March, told a small group of foreign correspondents that he had been eager to improve the strained ties with Washington that marked the tenure of his predecessor, the Socialist Roland Dumas. But he said his efforts had foundered .
"How can you expect French relations to be good with the United States when we have this conflict over GATT?" he asked. "The trade talks are a formidable cactus and they have made the establishment of a good climate impossible."
Trans-Atlantic differences over agricultural trade, French support and protection of its movie industry, textiles and other issues have long plagued the trade talks to the point that the word GATT has become synonymous in France with marauding American commercial and cultural imperialism.
 
'United States Must Negotiate'
 Mr. Juppe said it was necessary to combat protectionist tendencies at a time of sharply rising unemployment in Europe, but warned: "If we want to have a GATT accord by Dec. 15, the United States must negotiate. If there are no concessions, we will not sign."
France wants revisions in an agreement reached last year between the European Community and the United States calling for a 21 percent cut over six years in the volume of Europe's subsidized grain and other food exports. The United States has said there is no question of renegotiating the accord and has also balked at French demands that its movie industry be afforded continued protection in any new world trade deal.
Mr. Juppe's statement was made as the European Community's chief trade negotiatior, Sir Leon Brittan, issued a report in Brussels also criticizing Washington for blocking progress on the GATT talks and retreating from commitments to reduce customs tariffs made at the meeting of the Group of Seven industrialized nations in Tokyo in July.
The report said the Community was deeply disappointed that Washington had not respected the Tokyo accord's call for a 50 percent cut in the highest tariffs, many of which apply to textiles.
An American official who follows the GATT talks closely said that there was no question that the top priority in Washington now was securing Congressional support for the North American Free Trade Agreement with Canada and Mexico, and that attention had therefore been diverted from GATT.
But the official, who insisted on anonymity, added that the Clinton Administration remained determined to reach an accord in talks that economists have estimated could add $213 billion to world income by 2002.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (79%); JAPAN (65%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%); TOKYO, JAPAN (65%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) AMERICAN COMMERCIAL VEHICLES (54%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (92%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (92%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FRANCE FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (79%); JAPAN (65%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%); TOKYO, JAPAN (65%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FRANCE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (71%); AGRICULTURE (69%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (65%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (65%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (65%); 

PERSON: JUPPE, ALAIN (MIN); COHEN, ROGER ROLAND DUMAS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993



143 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 34; Column 3; Education Life Supplement

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Professionals Sent Back to Class

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
IN EDUCATION circles, what's sauce for the goose is sauce for an increasingly old and wise gander. Like secondary-school teachers who must submit to periodic competency testing, a wide variety of professionals, from dentists to financial planners, are being pressed to recertify their skills.
A nationwide movement is growing among state legislatures, prodded by the public, to compel professionals back to school to keep up with developments in their fields, in order to retain their licenses. Even occupations that are self-regulating, like estate appraisers, are conducting similar programs.
 
Demonstrating Rigor
 The movement, which began with the health-related professions, like doctors and nurses, has spread to lawyers and occupations that provide a wide spectrum of services to the public, such as real estate agents, accountants and social workers. "Professions of every stripe are trying to demonstrate rigor," said Robert S. Lapiner, dean of continuing education at U.C.L.A. Extension, the largest continuing-education school in the country, a division of the University of California at Los Angeles. 
 There are no nationwide statistics on the trend. But Louis Phillips, a consultant who specializes in continuing education for professionals, found in his own nationwide survey that for 13 professions out of 15 between 1982 and 1992, more states were requiring mandatory education. The two exceptions were architects and engineers.
The most successful courses are thought to be those that provide specific, practical information, such as the ones conducted by certified public accountants for each other -- courses along the lines of "How C.P.A.'s Can Profit From the 1992 Cable-Television Law."
Continuing education for professionals is not without its flaws, however: most courses require only attendance for a student to pass. Fewer still require active participation.
Some of those taking recertification courses have not seen the inside of a classroom for years and resent being there. There is a name for their attitude: "The Reluctant Learner Syndrome." "Sometimes they're even worse than reluctant," Mr. Phillips said. "They just don't want to be there. They can be downright disruptive." Most, however, just sit in their chairs to get the credit. But he puts these reluctant learners at a small fraction, and he estimates that 70 percent in any given profession will take courses out of a sense of duty.
Continuing education is also seen by some as a vehicle for tax-deductible vacations, though sunglasses and swimming pools have become more the exception than the rule.
Many states have made continuing education mandatory, requiring courses at a university or some other form of instruction after a professional is established in the workplace. It is an approach designed to guarantee basic competence by denying the renewal of a license unless a minimum number of courses are taken.
The courses also tend to calm the anxiety over the sluggish economic recovery. "When the economy is bad, there is a surge in enrollment," said Pat K. Thaler, chairwoman of the Council for Continuing Education in the Professions and the Liberal Arts, a coordinating group in Washington D.C. "People believe, and rightly so, that the better the skills and the greater the education, the more likely they'll hold onto their job or move up in their job."
Last year, 27 states required continuing education for psychologists, up from 11 in 1982; 28 states had requirements for dentists, up from 10; 31 states recertified social workers, up from 15. Of 15 selected professions in the states studied by Mr. Phillips, Delaware, Nevada and Florida had the most requirements; Connecticut, Hawaii and New York the least.
 
Many Approaches
 Even in New York, where he found that only three of his selected professions (accountants, nursing-home administrators and real estate agents) had to undergo continuing-education requirements, there are a variety of approaches.
New York University, for example, offers 24 accounting-related courses, including fraud investigation (10 100-minute sessions for $380) and cash-flow forecasting ($150 for one eight-hour seminar). It offers more than 40 real estate-related courses.
Appraisers, who assign value to land, watches, paintings and furniture, among other things, for use in insurance valuations and estate sales, carry no New York State obligation to recertify. Yet they can become embroiled in divorce cases if one side disputes the valuation of an asset. And an appraiser can be the object of a malpractice lawsuit if he or she, for example, appraises a painting too low, and the piece fails to recoup its true value at auction.
The Appraisers Association of America, based in New York City, was founded in 1949 by a group of New York State appraisers concerned about such issues and about the growing number of appraisers and the lack of self-policing. Appraisers become members by offering three references and three written appraisals, and by submitting to peer review by an eight-member committee and an eight-hour certification test.
The association requires 100 certification points over five years to become recertified. A university course is 15 points. But an appraiser could earn all 100 points by simply attending five of the association's annual conventions (worth 20 points and costing $395), which many elect to do. And the many seminars on Faberge eggs and picture frames offered by the association can be taken without tests. "We assume that if people are going to spend the money, they'll be in attendance and get something out of it," said Victor Wiener, executive director of the association.
Even the association's minimal certification requirements touch only a small fraction of the nation's appraisers. Mr. Wiener's organization has about 1,000 members, but there may be up to 150,000 uncertified appraisers in the country.
Professionals who object to taking courses for a grade argue that recertifying does nothing to prevent professionals from harming the public. Few lawyers, doctors or other professionals are sanctioned by peer review boards for technical incompetence but rather for civil or even criminal lapses.
Moreover, many who have made a contribution to their field may have specialties so narrow that their general expertise is difficult to test in a meaningful way. There are few real specialists who can devise tests for other specialists. In addition, it is difficult to prove whether continuing education affects job performance.
For these and other reasons, some professions have tried to block recertification. Only Iowa, for example, requires architects to take recertification courses, which represents no change from 1982.
Still, the mandatory continuing education movement is gaining in strength, if cumbersomely. "There is a crying need for greater coordination at the national level," Mr. Phillips said. "Let's say I want to practice real estate in Georgia, Alabama, South Carolina -- I have to conform to three different sets of regulations."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PROFESSIONS ACCOUNTING (90%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PROFESSIONAL CONTINUING EDUCATION (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); TRENDS (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); NURSES & NURSING (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (54%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



144 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

NAME: Allard K. Lowenstein

SECTION: Section 7; Page 3; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 2928 words

HEADLINE: One Person Made a Difference

BYLINE: By David Oshinsky; David Oshinsky, a professor of 20th-century history at Rutgers University, is the author of "A Conspiracy So Immense: The World of Joe McCarthy" and a forthcoming book on race and punishment in the South.

 BODY:

NEVER STOP RUNNING
Allard Lowenstein and the Struggle
to Save American Liberalism.
By William H. Chafe.
Illustrated. 556 pp. New York:
Basic Books. $28. 
 IN the chaotic 1960's, against a backdrop of violent protests, racial strife and televised assassinations, a new kind of politics emerged from a rather novel source. It was a politics of impatience and idealism, propelled by elite college students who had come of age in the prosperous baby-boom years following World War II. And it was molded, in large measure, by a rumpled, frenetic tactician named Allard K. Lowen stein, whose radical strategies sometimes masked his throughly mainstream political beliefs.
The title of William H. Chafe's book "Never Stop Running" perfectly captures the manic crusading, the rootlessness and the fear of personal relationships that made Lowenstein unique. "How we behave in our public lives inevitably reflects values, attitudes and experiences embedded in our private lives, and vice versa," writes Mr. Chafe, a professor of history at Duke University. In pursuing this vital link between the personal and the political, he has interviewed dozens of people and mined every scrap of paper -- including private correspondence and diaries -- from a subject who seemed to throw nothing away. The result is both a superb biography of Lowenstein and a gripping history of liberal protest and reform in an increasingly conservative age.
Politics came naturally to Lowenstein. His immigrant father preached the virtues of socialism while slicing roast beef at the family's bustling cafeteria in Manhattan. Born in 1929, Allard was, at age 7, handing out campaign leaflets for President Franklin D. Roosevelt; at 9, he was raising money for the anti-Franco forces in the Spanish Civil War. His idea of fun in these years was to chart obscure elections and to argue politics with adults. "In almost all these ventures," Mr. Chafe writes, "Lowenstein defended the underdog, the outcast, the less established cause."
This was hardly surprising. As a child of the Great Depression, Lowenstein admired the New Deal's spirit of liberal reform. And he saw that fundamental change could occur within the political process, even in the most perilous of times. That, Lowenstein believed, was what separated the United States from totalitarian regimes. Americans used the strengths of their system to remedy its faults.
As a brilliant graduate of Horace Mann, an elite private school in New York City, Lowenstein had his pick of colleges. Yet he chose to enter the University of North Carolina in 1945 -- a decision that brought his family to tears. Why would a liberal Jewish New Yorker go to Chapel Hill, a sleepy Christian town known to its residents as "the southern side of heaven"? Lowenstein's explanation was simple: he went there, he said, to fight racial segregation at its source.
There was some truth to this. As a 16-year-old freshman, Lowenstein caught the eye of U.N.C.'s president, Frank Porter Graham, a prominent Southern liberal, who quickly became his role model and his friend. With Graham's quiet encouragement, Lowen stein led a crusade to integrate the university a full decade before civil rights became a consuming national cause. His successes were modest; the roots of Jim Crow ran deep. But even then, a classmate observed, he "was able to move people with a power that is all but earthly."
Lowenstein also went South to escape his ethnic roots. Short and stocky, with thick glasses, thinning hair and a large nose, he felt a powerful sense of inferiority about his looks and his Jewish identity. At Chapel Hill, he sang in a Presbyterian church, dated only Christian women and tried without success to pledge a fraternity that openly excluded Jews. Years later, Lowenstein told a friend that he had chosen North Carolina in order to erase "any aspect of Jewishness that would keep
other people from getting close to him." He wanted, more than anything else, to be a "normal American." He eventually married Jennifer Lyman, an upper-class Protestant Bostonian, in 1966.
As Mr. Chafe makes clear, however, Lowenstein was incapable of closeness on any serious level. His ethnic insecurities were compounded by a sexual ambivalence that he never fully resolved. Deeply attracted to young men -- mostly "blond, blue-eyed, 6 foot 3 inch" types, a friend recalled -- Lowenstein spent a lifetime acting on the margin of his desires. He dared not acknowledge his homosexual feelings in an era when same-sex relationships were taboo. "One of the only solutions to this dilemma was to avoid intimacy," Mr. Chafe writes. "It was for that reason that Al had so many acquaintances, and for the most part insisted on being with them in groups."
By the time he left Chapel Hill in 1949, Lowenstein's social patterns were deeply ingrained. As a founder of the National Student Association, a liberal, anti-Communist group that would later be exposed as a re cipient of secret financing from the C.I.A., he aggressively courted older public figures like Eleanor Roosevelt, who added luster to his reputation as a man with impeccable connections. (Lowenstein denied any knowledge of the C.I.A. financing, and no hard evidence has been produced to undermine his claim.) At the same time, he became a mentor to dozens of student leaders he met on his cross-country jaunts for the organization. What was missing -- what always seemed to be missing in Lowenstein's life -- were meaningful relationships with men and women his own age, those most likely to demand an intimacy he could not easily provide.
Lowenstein never had a "real" career. His modest needs and substantial inheritance allowed him to operate, in Mr. Chafe's apt description, as an "itinerant director of various crusades for freedom." After earning a law degree at Yale, and receiving a mock award as "the student who graduated . . . having attended the fewest classes," Lowenstein took a series of teaching and administrative jobs at elite universities like Stanford, where he rallied young disciples to his side.
It was Allard Lowenstein, more than anyone else, who awakened white college students to the evils of South African apartheid and recruited hundreds of them for the civil rights struggle in Mississippi in the early 1960's. And it was Lowenstein who later channeled their seething antiwar sentiments into a political movement that unseated a President. But it was also Lowenstein who grabbed full credit for everything he touched, regardless of the contributions of others. "He was sort of what Alice Roosevelt Longworth said about her father, Teddy," a friend of Lowenstein's recalled. "He wanted to be the bride at every wedding, and the corpse at every funeral."
During the Mississippi campaign, he seemed to be everywhere at once, rushing madly from a voter registration drive in Jackson, Miss., to a liberal fund-raiser on Central Park West. Arrested late one night in the Mississippi Delta -- a civil rights worker's worst nightmare -- Lowenstein identified himself as a lawyer, demanded a telephone and loudly placed a collect call to Franklin D. Roosevelt 3d, spelling out the name letter by letter. "Although Roosevelt was barely awake," Mr. Chafe notes, "Lowenstein acted as though he were intensely engaged, telling him, 'No, don't call President Kennedy tonight, wait until tomorrow.' " The police quickly let him go.
Lowenstein's recruits did not fare nearly as well. Their own lives of privilege and security had not prepared them for the overwhelming violence and poverty of everyday black life in Mississippi. Some were traumatized by the experience; others were radicalized. And many grew tired of Lowenstein's claim to leadership, his love of the spotlight and, above all, his philosophy of working within a political system that seemed hopelessly repressive and corrupt.
Lowenstein felt betrayed by his young recruits. He lashed back, charging that the civil rights movement had been captured by left-wing radicals who preached violence and revolutionary change. There was an element of truth to these allegations, though the larger issue seemed to be Lowenstein's loss of stature and control. His relationship with students had always been a one-way street. He expected them to serve, not to question; to follow, not to doubt. When that relationship eroded, he sadly walked away.
But not for long. If the lessons of Mississippi were lost on Lowenstein, his thirst for mainstream politics remained very much alive. A new protest was stirring in the mid-1960's against American military involvement in Vietnam. As it engulfed one college campus after another, Lowenstein answered the call. His goal, as always, was to make liberal democracy work by directing the enormous energy and idealism of the young within the political system. And his plan was to "dump" President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1968 by mobilizing college students to campaign against his re-election in key primary states. "No one wants him out there," Lowenstein claimed, "and all that we have to do is have someone say it. Like, 'the emperor has no clothes.' "
THE problem, as Mr. Chafe makes clear, is that the someone who said it first, Senator Eugene J. McCarthy of Minnesota, did not seem up to the job. Lowenstein came to view Mr. McCarthy as lazy, erratic and uninspiring. He supported him only because his personal choice, Senator Robert F. Kennedy of New York, a man he truly admired, wavered for months before entering the Presidential race. In the meantime, Lowenstein returned to his old haunts -- the college campuses -- to recruit an army of well-scrubbed volunteers ("be clean for Gene") for Mr. McCarthy's New Hampshire primary campaign. "We were there because Al had brought us there," a student recalled. "He had asked an awful lot of kids to . . . abandon the craziness and fringe stuff and jump into electoral politics."
Mr. McCarthy's strong showing against long odds in New Hampshire led to the President's retirement. Mr. Chafe is largely correct in describing Lowenstein as the "genius" behind "one of the most remarkable political achievements of contemporary American history." But Lowenstein soiled that achievement, in the eyes of many antiwar Democrats, by continuing to support Gene McCarthy in public while working behind the scenes to secure the Presidential nomination for Bobby Kennedy, a more electable candidate. Even worse, perhaps, was the "almost ghoulish" attempt by Lowenstein to draft Senator Edward M. Kennedy for President following Robert Kennedy's assassination in June 1968. ("Uh, uh," fumed the civil rights leader Charles Evers, "you're not going to do it to that family a third time.") Once again, Mr. Chafe maintains, a Lowenstein crusade had combined "principled advocacy" with "manipulation."
Lowenstein eventually endorsed the Democratic nominee, Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey, despite an earlier vow to oppose Humphrey at all costs. As a political pragmatist, Lowenstein clearly viewed the Vice President as the lesser of two evils in a campaign where the Republican candidate was Richard Nixon. And more important, he needed the support of a united Democratic Party in his own bid for a Congressional seat in a largely Republican district on Long Island. When Lowenstein won that race, he became an elected public official for the first and only time in his life.
It proved a difficult fit. The House of Representatives has its own folkways based on courtesy, compromise, deference and team play. These were not the strong suits of a brash, fast-talking individualist like Lowenstein, who thrived on quick action and the glow of center stage. As hard as he tried, the new Congressman had trouble focusing on the immediate needs of his district. What mattered more to humanity, the jet noise at Kennedy International Airport or the famine in Biafra? Why waste time on the garbage problem in Great Neck when the war was still raging in Vietnam?
Lowenstein was defeated for re-election after one term, partly because the Republican-controlled New York State Legislature had gerrymandered his district away from him. He responded, almost reflexively, by promising another crusade to register the millions of young people recently enfranchised under the 26th Amendment, which lowered the voting age to 18. If properly mobilized, said Lowenstein, their ballots could forge a progressive landslide that would end the Vietnam War, bring social justice to minorities and force Richard Nixon from the White House in 1972.
The crusade flopped. As he traveled about the country, Lowenstein discovered a painful truth: most young people did not resemble the well-bred, idealistic students he had sent to do battle in Mississippi and New Hampshire. They had little interest in politics, even less in a decidedly liberal agenda. What concerned them was the deteriorating economy, the explosion of violent crime and the "unfairness" of affirmative action programs designed to aid minorities. As a result, the young people who registered to vote were more likely to cast a ballot for Richard Nixon than for his liberal opponent. Dumping this President would require far more than Allard Lowenstein could ever deliver, as the 1972 Nixon landslide victory over George McGovern made embarrassingly clear.
The 1970's were a nightmare for him. His repeated campaigns for Congress -- five successive defeats in three different districts -- made him look like Harold Stassen in liberal garb. His wife left him in 1976, unable to take the endless political grind. Worst of all, perhaps, was the demise of Lowenstein's once optimistic vision of the United States, a vision now clouded by notions of conspiracy and foul play.
Convinced that the truth behind Robert Kennedy's assassination had been covered up by sinister forces, he linked that killing, in his less lucid moments, to a larger plot involving the murders of John F. Kennedy and the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. And the more he brooded over his own election defeats, the more he began to see himself as a victim of the same conspiracy to rob the country of its liberal dreams. It became an obsession with Lowenstein, a friend recalled, and "people who had known him for a long period of time sort of shook their heads."
By 1980, Lowenstein seemed as marginal as the liberalism he had so passionately espoused. He drifted from one job to another, working at the United Nations, at a law firm in Manhattan and as a consultant to the moribund Presidential campaign of Edward Kennedy. Though Mr. Chafe says that Lowenstein finally had begun to face his personal demons -- "he may have been almost ready to stop running" -- the evidence is very thin. Indeed, Lowenstein's recurring fear at this time was of a violent death at the hands of an assassin. He even began to write out detailed instructions for his funeral.
As fate would have it, Lowenstein's last act on earth was a charitable one, an attempt to help a troubled former disciple named Dennis Sweeney, who in 1963 had left Stanford at Lowenstein's urging to join the civil rights struggle in Mississippi. Like so many northern students, Mr. Sweeney had been badly scarred by the experience. He returned home in a state of depressed exhaustion, completely burned out.
"According to psychiatrists," Mr. Chafe writes, "Sweeney was the victim of adult-onset schizophrenia, a disease that strikes an individual entering his 20's." He attached himself to political fringe groups, plunged deeply into the drug culture and began hearing strange sounds and voices deep inside his head. Convinced that a C.I.A. dentist had planted transmitters in his mouth, Mr. Sweeney filed down his crowns and fillings to nubs. When the voices continued, he blamed Lowenstein and begged him to stop.
On a bleak March afternoon in 1980, Dennis Sweeney came to Lowenstein's law office in New York. Old movement people had already abandoned this frightening man, but Lowenstein refused to turn him away. He felt compassion for Mr. Sweeney -- and perhaps some responsibility for his awful plight. Their meeting lasted less than two minutes. Then Mr. Sweeney pulled out a gun and fired seven shots at the person whose voice kept echoing in his head. Allard Lowenstein died later that day, at the age of 51. "He was killed," wrote his good friend and political opposite William F. Buckley Jr., "by one of his children."
But the Lowenstein brood is very large. In Congress today, the list of his disciples includes Senators Tom Harkin of Iowa, Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, Paul Wellstone of Minnesota, Joe Lieberman of Connecticut and Bill Bradley of New Jersey, and Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, to name a few. All of them are helping to forge a new liberal agenda, and their debt to Allard Lowenstein is truly immense. At his best, he taught them that injustice must be confronted, that one person can make a difference, that meaningful reform demands serious sacrifice and that the political process really does work.
"As you go along," Lowenstein said in 1966, "you build a life . . . in which you do many different kinds of things. But it all has a common denominator that gives it some sense, some direction -- the sense that your total activity is going to make a better situation for people to live in. . . . The question should be, is it worth trying to do, not can it be done? . . . You don't just set goals and when you reach them, find that they equal happiness. . . . Within the quest itself, much of the fullness of life exists."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Allard K. Lowenstein in his Brooklyn election headquarters in 1972, during one of his five unsuccessful campaigns for Congress. (WILLIAM E. SAURO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 3); Allard K. Lowenstein in 1969. (GEORGE TAMES/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Review

TITLE: NEVER STOP RUNNING (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CONSERVATISM (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); RACE & RACISM (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); WORLD WAR II (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); HISTORY (76%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); CIVIL WAR (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); 

PERSON: OSHINSKY, DAVID; CHAFE, WILLIAM H

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



145 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 11; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Bushwhacked

BYLINE: By Joe Queenan; Joe Queenan is the author of "Imperial Caddy: The Rise of Dan Quayle in America and the Decline and Fall of Practically Everything Else."

 BODY:

HELL OF A RIDE
Backstage at the White House Follies, 1989-1993.
By John Podhoretz.
249 pp. New York:
Simon & Schuster. $21. 
 EVERY year, after a team from the National Football Conference massacres an opponent from the American Football Conference, publishers blitz the nation with a bunch of snap autobiographies written by the winners' head coach, quarterback and outside linebackers. But publishers usually refrain from blitzing the nation with books written by the losers because, frankly, Americans don't think there's a whole lot to be learned from losers.
This is where politics differs from football. Losers, ranging from Richard Nixon to Gary Hart to Jimmy Carter, have been known to churn out reams of material after their careers came to an abrupt end, and occasionally the books are surprisingly informative, even readable. A case in point is John Podhoretz's "Hell of a Ride: Backstage at the White House Follies, 1989-1993." The book has a deceptive title; Mr. Podhoretz -- a conservative journalist who is the son of Norman Podhoretz, the editor of Commentary magazine and a founding father of neoconservatism, and Midge Decter, the writer, editor and founding mother of neoconservatism -- worked at the White House for only the last few months of the Reagan Administration and the first few months of the Bush Administration. So, technically speaking, his behind-the-scenes account of the fall of George Bush is the equivalent of the memoir of a second-string cornerback who retired from the team in 1989 but stayed in touch with the boys after he left. Yet Mr. Podhoretz's furiously sarcastic account of the way he thinks Ronald Reagan's revolution was betrayed by George Bush may well be the most interesting book to come out of Washington recently. Of course, when your main competition is Vice President Al Gore, this is not saying a whole lot.
Cleverly, Mr. Podhoretz has chosen to depict the collapse of the Bush Presidency not from the point of view of such high-and-mighty usual suspects as Richard Darman and James Baker, but from the perspective of the psychologically devastated, middle-level neocon intellectuals who occupied the White House for 12 years. Career opportunities for unemployed, anonymous neocon intellectuals may be hard to come by in Washington for the next few years. "Hell of a Ride" is thus the tale of Young Republicans Facing the Soup Line for the first time in their lives, a group for which many Americans will feel a tad less empathy than the author.
"Hell of a Ride" has one major objective: to put to rest the notion that the Republican Party is a monolithic conservative force and, in the process, to smash the equally foolish notion that the repudiation of George Bush by the American people constituted a repudiation of Ronald Reagan. With its savage attacks on Mr. Darman, whom Mr. Podhoretz calls "a worm," Nicholas Brady ("a dimwit"), Mr. Baker, John Sununu, Samuel Skinner and the outgoing President himself, the book perfectly captures the fury that young conservatives feel toward Mr. Bush, whom they view as a bumbler, a dissembler and a traitor to the cause.
Not surprisingly, Mr. Podhoretz loathes all of the white-shoe Republicans and contends that Mr. Bush could have won the 1992 election had he not reneged on his no-new-taxes promise of 1988, or had he ever given the American people the slightest reassurance that he cared about, or even understood, their problems. As presented by Mr. Podhoretz, one White House staffer explains:
"Somebody -- you heard it was Marlin Fitzwater -- came up with the notion that the President could bolster consumer confidence by going to a J. C. Penney near Camp David and buying some socks. You knew the President didn't even carry money with him and hadn't for years; his personal assistant must have handed it to him in the car. The whole event had a Marie Antoinette, 'Let them buy socks' quality to it."
From Mr. Podhoretz's perspective, 1992 was a fluke, and far from believing that the Republicans should swing to the center to woo back the voting public, he argues that it should swing farther to the right. In his view, the Reagan revolution has merely been interrupted by an "unearned political opportunity" handed to the Democrats by the ineffectual Mr. Bush.
"Hell of a Ride" is not without its faults: Mr. Podhoretz's wisecracks are nowhere near as funny as he thinks they are, and his unmodulated tone of sneering condescension can become wearing. The writing is heavy on neocon malarkey like "hubris" and "Gnomish Gnostic" -- Bill Buckley Lite -- punctuated with cutting-edge inner-city patois like "dissing" that clearly has no place in a book written by a Republican. Moreover, in a book that is largely about networking on the Titanic, the author shows himself to be a major networker himself, actually going out of his way to praise the cerebrally challenged Dan Quayle for his campaigning.
Nevertheless, Mr. Podhoretz's you-are-there diary of an Administration coming apart at the seams works quite well, and has an oddly bipartisan appeal (liberals will be enthralled by details of the self-destructive tendencies of the Bush White House). But the book also issues a warning: that young Reaganites view themselves as cheated rather than defeated, as if the Buffalo Bills had lost the last three Super Bowls because their kinder, gentler quarterback went into the tank. The Bills, it should be noted, keep coming back. So will the Reaganites.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HELL OF A RIDE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); ATHLETES (72%); JOURNALISM (72%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (67%); 

PERSON: QUEENAN, JOE; PODHORETZ, JOHN RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); AL GORE (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



146 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 6; Page 66; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: FORBIDDEN SUN, AND SIN, COMMUNIST STYLE

BYLINE: By Peter Passell; Peter Passell writes about economics for The Times.

 BODY:
The house Champagne is Moet, the lobby Muzak has a vaguely disco beat, and the topless blonde at the pool is reading Danielle Steele in German. The scene might be in Sardinia, the Costa Brava or a Club Med in the Seychelles.
But the Spanish-operated Hotel Melia is either much closer to home or much farther, depending on how you look at it. For this is the glitziest of resorts in Varadero, Cuba's trendiest of beach towns. It's just a stone's throw from Key West -- yet off limits to American pleasure travelers under what Congress solemnly calls the Trading With the Enemy Act. 
 Canadians, Europeans and Latin Americans bearing precious dollars arrive on charters by the tens of thousands each year. American journalists like me, along with academic researchers, artists and Cuban-Americans with relatives in the old country, take Marazul Tours' thrice-weekly shuttle from Miami to Havana. No assigned seats or pineapple drinks with maraschino cherries, but it's just 45 minutes by jet.
Fidel welcomes American tourists, too, even if they have to come through a third country (Toronto, Montreal and Cancun are the most convenient jumping-off spots). Spending money for fun or profit in Cuba is against United States law. But unless you flaunt a "Che Lives" T-shirt while going through customs, the chance of getting caught is roughly equal to the risk of being abducted by aliens.
The primary lure, typically, is the idea of spending a luxurious week by the surf for less than the price of the HoJo in Bakersfield. But once you arrive, there's a far more surreal attraction: seeing this hard-currency chic layered over 1990's Cuba, a socialist workers' paradise that is itself layered over what was once the sin and sun capital of the hemisphere.
Varadero had been a weekend getaway for rich Havanans and the du Pont family (which bought most of the land in the 1930's). This peninsula some two hours east of Havana features blue-blue waters, nice, if a bit rocky, beaches, even a golf course left over from when Cuba had a leisure class. What's more, the taxis are air-conditioned, the tube carries HBO (pirated from the satellite), and the waiters deliver the pepperoni pizza with flair.
Visitors not inclined to take cha-cha lessons alongside an artificial waterfall or to rent a microskirted companion for the night will no doubt prefer Cayo Largo, Cuba's bid for a more adventurous class of snowbird. Getting there from Havana requires a half-hour flight by Cubana Airlines Yak-40, a vehicle with all the amenities of a Murmansk city bus. But it's worth the trip: this sliver of coral in the Caribbean features human-scale accommodations, iguanas that wait patiently for handouts and 15 miles of the prettiest, emptiest, talcum beaches on the planet.
Cayo Largo is catching on: there's a nonstop charter each week from Milan. And the reefs just a mile offshore are drawing rave reviews from scuba divers jaded by the Cayman Islands and Cozumel. But limited development (only 300 rooms now, another 300 in the works) should keep this little jewel of a resort unpolished a while longer.
Beach charms notwithstanding, to me the indisputable numero uno attraction in Cuba is Havana, where, as Irving Berlin wrote, "Dark-eyed Stellas light their feller's panatellas." Havana was a fortress colonial town that burst beyond its walls when Washington was still a swamp. In the 1950's, it looked more like a cross between Buenos Aires and Miami than the capital of a Caribbean backwater. Now, with a population of two million, it still does.
The heavily wooded estates of Little Lake and the suburban sprawl of the Vedado district are intact, though the buildings are now largely in the hands of diplomats, Government agencies and dollar-only shops selling Bausch & Lomb contact lenses, Swatch watches and Cohiba cigars (Cuba's best). And at least from a distance, the high-rise hotels that once lured hedonists from the tamer pleasure domes of Miami Beach seem unchanged.
Casa Marina, the brothel that in the carnal days of Fulgencio Batista specialized in 13-year-olds from the countryside, has long since closed. So have the casinos, hushed temples to high-stakes gambling controlled by businessman Meyer Lansky with a little help from his friend and partner, Batista. But it doesn't require much imagination to recapture the sense of the bad old city.
The Hotel Nacional, which by no coincidence closely resembles the Breakers in Palm Beach, has been restored to its 1955 opulence -- the year Pan American Airlines took over the management and Eartha Kitt headlined the floor show. The Hotel Riviera, the mob's last and most ambitious attempt to eclipse Las Vegas in glorious excess, still features acres of marble, plate glass and Naugahyde -- not to mention an army of ladies of the night camped on the steps. Lansky's 20th-floor suite at the Riviera (stripped, alas, of memorabilia) is available, for $200 a night.
What's more, the Floridita, the handsome bar in Old Havana where Ernest Hemingway got pickled each night on a dozen daiquiris, still beckons. The daiquiris, incidentally, are primo. It is a mystery, though, how anyone, even a Nobel Prize-winning boozer, could down that much sugar in a sitting.
The biggest blast from the past is to be found at the Tropicana, a gigantic open-air nightclub in the suburbs with a floor show that hasn't changed much since the 1940's: Girls! Girls! Girls! in fantastic feathers and frills, the musical extravaganza is good, clean PG-rated sex. Big spenders -- said to be mostly Mexicans and Venezuelans -- can even take home snapshots of themselves leering at the string bikinis.
HOW DOES ALL THIS PLEASURE-seeking-as-usual square with Fidel's self-proclaimed role as the last true prophet of Marx? Better than you might expect.
Judging by the smiles Cubans give strangers on the street, and the ease with which couples neck openly along Havana's seafront boulevard, the dictatorship of the proletariat that transformed Eastern Europe into perpetual Sunday school never made much headway against Cubans' sensuality and grace. And while Castro rules absolutely, he is no Kim Il Sung. Indeed, Fidel must be the world's only Dear Leader whose portrait is nowhere in evidence.
"Socialism or Death" slogans may still be plastered over the entrances to neighborhood bodegas, and the Museum of the Revolution (cleverly housed in Batista's former palace) may still feature the T-34 Russian tank that Castro claims to have personally commanded at the Bay of Pigs. But the rhetoric of the Ministry of Revolutionary Orientation seems as inspired by John Lennon as by V. I. Lenin: across from the "Resist, Fight and Win" billboard is one proclaiming that "Only Love Builds."
Cuba's economic distress is obvious from the collapsing buildings, rolling blackouts and endless lines at bus stops. But here there are no Jeeps loaded with teen-agers prowling for human prey. Nor, in this revolution where literacy, medical care and full bellies got high priority, is there a sense of overwhelming, grinding poverty.
In fact, the harsh realities of street life tugged far less at my conscience than in, say, Rio or Mexico City. And the shortage of everything sold for pesos even offers certain advantages: Havana is surely the only great metropolis without rush hour traffic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CU (PAR) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (58%); 

COUNTRY: CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SEYCHELLES (91%); GERMANY (88%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CANADA (76%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (71%); QUEBEC, CANADA (71%); 

CITY: KEY WEST, FL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (73%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (71%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (71%); 

COMPANY: CLUB MEDITERRANEE SA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SEYCHELLES (91%); GERMANY (88%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CANADA (76%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (71%); QUEBEC, CANADA (71%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (73%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (71%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (71%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); LOBBYING (78%); BEACHES (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); GOLF (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); AIRLINES (67%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



147 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 22; Column 3; Education Life Supplement

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: Hail the Instant Coursepack!

BYLINE: By JOSHUA MILLS

 BODY:
SOMEWHERE on the academic continuum between lugging thick tomes to class and using a notebook computer to tap into electronic library collections, a new era of textbooks has taken hold: the coursepack.
Where many professors once relied on a principal textbook, hefty, hard-covered and selling for more than $50, more and more now rely on "custom-published" compilations of material that are churned out by the campus print shop, nearby copy shops and sometimes even by a traditional textbook publisher. These coursepacks, or course packets, as they are called on many campuses, are simply collections of essays, speeches, newspaper and magazine articles and chapters or excerpts from formal textbooks, clipped together or spiral-bound under a flimsy cover.
 
Average Cost Is $20
 Lighter than a hard-cover text, and generally lighter on a student's wallet as well, these bundles average about $20 in cost. But their greatest virtue is the diversity of voices and the immediate relevance that they add to course readings. 
 Students of modern European history, for example, who rely on a textbook are not likely to find a discussion this fall of the recent stumbling toward the Maastricht treaty on European unity. But a teacher who prepared a coursepack could have included recent press coverage, speeches and analyses from European leaders, as well as recent election results in France and Germany.
"You can have more focused readings," said Prof. Michael Emery of California State University at Northridge, whose textbook "Readings in Mass Communication" (co-edited by Ted Curtis Smythe, published by William C. Brown in 1972) allows a teacher to design a coursepack from among more than 150 articles. "In late July," Professor Emery said, "I was putting together the menu of articles we had available, and I read an article in the July/August issue of Mother Jones. Within a week it was included in our menu and available for the fall semester."
Stan Stoga, executive editor of the publisher Brown & Benchmark, said that in a custom-designed book the readings could be arranged in whatever order the instructor wanted and the book could be in a campus bookstore within six weeks after it was ordered. The company charges 55 an article, so a collection of 15 articles would cost $8.25.
Even more ambitious custom publishing comes from McGraw-Hill's Primis operation, which assembles and delivers custom-designed textbooks drawn from electronic libraries in more than 20 disciplines, from literature to criminal justice to corporate finance. A paper catalogue is available, and all the selections can also be found electronically through the Internet computer network. Robert D. Lynch, the vice president of Primis, said these custom-designed textbooks were being used on more than 800 campuses in the United States, Canada and Australia.
 
Most Sell Coursepacks
 Some university bookstores say custom publishing accounts for 20 percent of course material, which includes textbook sales. The National Association of College Stores, a trade group based in Oberlin, Ohio, said a majority of its 3,000 members sold coursepacks, and at least a third of all college students had used them in at least one class.
For as long as there has been photocopying, students have brought home copies of reading materials, after pumping coins into a machine in the library. As copying became more widespread, with departments installing machines and copy shops opening near campuses, faculty members began assembling their own "books."
Now the coursepack has become institutionalized. At many campuses the bookstore circulates forms, asking faculty members for reading materials they would like to use. They then contact the publishers to obtain permission to copy the materials -- in return for a
royalty -- and assemble the "books."
"The principle of asking for permission is now widely accepted by bookstores and copy shops," said Carol Risher, vice president for copyrights at the Association of American Publishers.
In suits over illegal copying and copyright violations over the years, the association has bludgeoned professors, university administrators and copy shops into compliance with copyright law. In a 1991 case in Federal District Court in Manhattan, for instance, Kinko's copy shops were ordered to pay $1.875 million in damages and costs for violating copyrights; in an earlier case against New York University and eight faculty members there, the university administration agreed to accept responsibility for educating professors about copyright and copying procedures.
If students generally like the more personalized and diverse readings of the coursepack, as well as the lower price, and if teachers welcome the opportunity to shape their materials, publishers surely have mixed feelings. Even when royalties are paid, the packets cut directly into textbook sales.
 
'Their Own Appeal'
 "The build-your-own-textbook phenomenon is here to stay," said Michael V. Needham, president of the college division at McGraw-Hill. "There will always be people who want to use textbooks, but coursepacks have their own appeal."
If coursepacks cut into textbook sales, they are nonetheless a great deal better, from publishers' and authors' point of view, than the sale of used books. New developments and staying competitive with rival books are important factors in publishing, but the driving force behind the regularly scheduled new editions of many textbooks is to make used copies obsolete.
"Used books are a big business," said Mitchell Stephens, whose "Broadcast News," the best-selling textbook in its field since publication in 1980, was recently published in a third edition by Harcourt Brace Jovanovich. Sales of used texts account for more than $500 million a year, roughly a fifth of the textbook market. And every one of those dollars is lost to the new-textbook market.
No wonder, said Professor Stephens, chairman of the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication at N.Y.U., that "with a reasonably successful book, publishers like a new edition every three or four years."
The long-distance champion of multi-edition books may be "Accounting Principles" (South-Western Publishing), by Philip Fess and Carl Warren, in its 17th edition with more than eight million copies sold domestically. The book began life in 1903 as a pamphlet by James Oscar McKinsey, an accounting professor. In 1935 it became a proper textbook. In its latest incarnation, "Accounting Principles" costs $60 and is 1,000 pages long. The publisher is pleased to sell 96 different supplemental teaching materials, including computer software, a CD-ROM disk for multimedia computers and conventional worksheets.
 
'We're Only Half Done'
 "When I first started there was just a textbook, an instructor's manual and another manual for testing," Professor Fess said in a recent interview. "Now we provide instructors with guides as well as solution manuals, to help with lectures; with an annotated edition, with notes in the margins including real-world examples; with accounting problems on computer software problems, and we have study guides for students. When we're done with revising the textbook, we're only half done."
Second is the redoubtable "Economics," by Paul Samuelson (McGraw-Hill), first published in 1948 and now in its 14th edition; more than six and a half million copies have been sold in the United States.
In recent years, however, it has been surpassed as the economics best seller by "Economics: Principles, Problems and Policies," by Campbell R. McConnell (McGraw-Hill), in its 12th edition with five million copies sold domestically; 500,000 more have been sold in Russia, McGraw-Hill says.
Whether these behemoths will ever be challenged has a lot to do with the evolution of electronic media and their acceptance. Will "students find their way, sodas in hand, to comfortable chairs at electronic ordering stations from which they will select the already electronically bundled materials for each course?" asked James Lichtenberg, a vice president of the Association of American Publishers, last year in Change magazine. "These may be downloaded onto computer disks, printed on paper, or sent directly to their dorm-room computers, with payment automatically deducted from their student debit card."
Or will books -- tactile, satisfying embodiments of knowledge -- always have a place on campus? "The current changes are already breaking the back of the book, cracking its binding," mused Professor Stephens. "Do these rigidly linear arrangements of words represent the best way to transmit information? Or will something better emerge?"

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (90%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (55%); GERMANY (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (55%); GERMANY (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES TEXTBOOKS (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); BOOKSTORES (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); HISTORY (78%); LIBRARIES (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: MILLS, JOSHUA ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



148 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 5; Page 4; Column 5; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
Stiff Premium To Travel Alone

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE

 BODY:
DIANA L. DIAMOND of Palo Alto, Calif., a hospital administrator, signed up with Globus Tours for a trip to India last summer. The price of the 19-day trip, with air fare and land arrangements, was $3,530. This, as is typical of tour operators' offerings, was the price for one person based on the traveler's sharing a room with a companion. For Ms. Diamond to make the trip by herself, she would have to pay $1,026 additional as a "single supplement."
Although a premium of 29 percent seems stiff, it is not unusual. Sometimes, as in this case, it is that percentage of the air and land charges; other times it applies to land arrangements only. 
 Exceptions to the single supplement do occur, particularly where people expect to be housed dormitory-style or in other situations lacking privacy, as on an adventure trip. Underlying the premium is the charge tour operators must pay to hotels for putting one person into a room that two people might use, who would add to the hotel's revenue by ordering drinks for two and other extras and tipping more.
Some tour operators and organizations, Club Med among them, will double up single travelers at random to enable them to avoid the extra charge, and that is what Ms. Diamond decided was a solution. She asked her travel agent to have Globus find another single traveler with whom she might share a room. She said she had done that with other companies, Orient Flexi Pax, for instance. The agent responded that Globus would not find her a roommate, and when she called the company directly, it understandably would not divulge the names of others who would be on the trip so Ms. Diamond could make inquiries.
However, the Globus agent said that if Ms. Diamond were traveling with Globus's sister organization, Cosmos Tourama, which offers less expensive tours, it would find a roommate. But since Cosmos did not offer a parallel trip, she paid the extra charge under protest and took the trip to India, which she said she greatly enjoyed.
John Martinen, president of Globus and Cosmos, with headquarters in Littleton, Colo., said Globus at one time also paired up single travelers of the same sex, but stopped eight or nine years ago "because so often people did not like their roommates and we had to find single accommodations for them during the tour."
"It was not practical at the first-class level," he said. By contrast, he said, at Cosmos's budget level, "they are willing to live with the rooommate." The matching is done by the company, based on gender only, without regard to smoking or other tastes. If Cosmos cannot find a roommate as requested, it will waive the single supplement, Mr. Martinen said.
 
Finding Roommates
 Tours under the two company names differ in hotel quality, by numbers of meals offered and in other respects, he said. For a price comparison, he cited 19-day tours of Europe in the 1994 catalogue. With Globus, the land arrangements would cost $1,858 a person in double occupancy, with a $483 single supplement, about 26 percent; with Cosmos, the cost would be $1,313 in double occupancy, with a $300 single supplement, about 23 percent.
Mr. Martinen said that his companies' single supplement consisted only of the extra amount the company had to pay the hotel to put one person in a room, plus the travel agent's commission on this amount. The trip Ms. Diamond took shows a high single supplement on a percentage basis because the hotels used in India, Bangkok and Hong Kong were luxurious and less competitively priced than those in Europe, Mr. Martinen said.
Eli Milbaur, managing director of Orient Flexi Pax Tours in New York, confirmed that his company would seek roommates of the same sex if asked. He estimated that they succeeded 80 percent of the time but if the search failed by the time the trip drew near, the company would give a full refund of the tour price to the client. Orient Flexi Pax sends 10,000 clients a year to China, the Orient, Australia, New Zealand and Fiji. For a two-week trip to China, he said, the land arrangements in a deluxe hotel would cost $1,599 for a traveler in double occupancy; the single supplement would be $499, or 31 percent.
Another example, Funway Holidays Funjet in Milwaukee, a tour and charter operator that has 800,000 passengers a year, always charges a single supplement, according to Stephanie Hart, a spokeswoman, and does not seek roommates on request. Ms. Hart gave as a price example a London-Paris trip of seven nights. For airfare and a first-class hotel, one person in double occupancy would pay $1,210; one person in a room alone could pay $1,540, or 27 percent more.
Ms. Hart said the price for the single-room ticket included the operator's markup as well as the hotel's extra charge.
 
A Bargain for Two?
 Of course, a simple change in marketing could disguise Ms. Diamond's 29 percent premium. The tour could be sold on the basis of the price for a single person. "The price for this tour is $4,556," this approach would say. "A second person in the room will pay only $2,509." The total for a couple would be the same, as would the price for one person, but the phrase "single supplement," which begets so much hostility, would disappear.
Bill Hanley, executive vice president for sales and marketing for Forte Hotel chain, said he believed the tour industry had always predicated its pricing on double occupancy and theorized that it stemmed from the days when trips to Europe were made by ship and two to a cabin was the usual arrangement.
In contrast, he and other hotel officials said, hotels work in terms of single occupancy: What they need to earn from the room to provide for the mortgage, the heat and electricity, the taxes, the staff, profit and so forth. Then an amount is added on that represents the cost for bedlinens for a second bed, extra towels, more shampoo. This may be $10 on a $90 room.
Rooms in the Forte Travelodge motels cost $5 or so above the base price when two people use them. For 1993 so far, Mr. Hanley said, the average rate paid in his company's Travelodge motels is $44; for a single occupancy it averages $39 and for a couple $46, which includes surcharges for such things as a rollaway bed. Like other hotel officials interviewed for this article, he contended that people traveling together got a bargain, not that people traveling alone paid disproportionately. But if the two people traveling together have separate travel budgets, the cost comes out to $23 each.
However, Mr. Hanley said, despite the tough economic times, the incidence of business travelers from the same company who double up to save has "hardly budged" from the zero point.
The social mores for business travel are thus different than for leisure travel, he said, although both groups are "buying down" to a less expensive category to save money.
One result of this that can perhaps work to the benefit of single travelers is that hotels at the high end of the range are offering more and more special deals, and nothing prevents a solo traveler from bargaining a better rate -- say, perhaps, a singles rate.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CU (PAR) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (55%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (55%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (55%); NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (52%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (52%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); COLORADO, USA (67%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CLUB MEDITERRANEE SA (55%); GLOBUS & COSMOS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); COLORADO, USA (67%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL; SINGLE PERSONS; RATES TOUR OPERATORS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BUDGETS (67%); 

PERSON: WADE, BETSY

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



149 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2479 words

HEADLINE: DANCE;
Dancing on a High Wire Of Inspired Lunacy

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
Leonardo and his Mona Lisa argue endlessly, bound together in querulous domesticity over the years he takes to paint her portrait. A crooner named Orfeo sings "I'll See You Again" to the housemaid who is his Eurydice. A graffiti artist escapes over the Berlin wall, a man with a stuffed chicken finds that you can go home again, and a Greek-American contralto named Dagmar Onassis, the illegitimate daughter of Maria Callas and Aristotle Onassis, reduces a spellbound audience to simultaneous tears and laughter.
Welcome to some of the many worlds of John Kelly, actor, singer, director, designer -- and performance artist-turned-star. This week, Mr. Kelly will perform on the largest and most formal stage of his New York career in his "Light Shall Lift Them," which will run for four performances starting Wednesday at the Majestic Theater of the Brooklyn Academy of Music. The new multimedia work, which is subtitled "The Parallel Lives of Jean Cocteau and Barbette" and is part of BAM's Next Wave festival, chronicles the life of Vander Clyde, a young American who, performing as a transvestite aerialist named Barbette, became the toast of Paris in the 1920's and an inspiration to Jean Cocteau. 
 Performance art has become an established part of the New York theater scene in the decade or so since the 39-year-old Mr. Kelly began to perform in the small clubs on the Lower East Side where the unruly heir to the traditions of Dadaist theater and 1960's Happenings was born. He is now poised to claim his place among established performers like Eric Bogosian, Reno and Blue Man Group. But for many he continues to personify the peculiar, scruffy magic of performance, as the genre is sometimes called.
Mr. Kelly does not portray characters like Egon Schiele, around whom he built an award-winning production called "Pass the Blutwurst, Bitte" in 1986. He also does not play himself. At his best, Mr. Kelly exists in the moment of pure imaginative creativity midway between the two realities of the everyday and the life of the theater. Describing Mr. Kelly's "odd, tenuous magic" in The Washington Post, the critic Alan M. Kriegsman wrote, "No sooner does he take the stage than one senses his comfort with it and us, and his feeling that this is his world, which we are invited to share."
In the role of Dagmar, resplendent in an emerald-green gown and overweening beehive, the pale, slightly built Mr. Kelly both captures and comments on the essence of performing, giving himself up to the character with the abandon of those who lose their natural timidity only on the stage. Dagmar, who is modeled on Maria Callas, one of Mr. Kelly's heroes, is a foolish mortal whose singing of Bellini, Mahler and Weill, never wholly beautiful or ridiculous, brings her and her audience a brush with the gods.
"It's the lie that tells the truth," Mr. Kelly said, quoting Cocteau, another hero, during a recent conversation in his Manhattan loft. The space might have been a set for one of his pieces; it is a dimly lighted palace of shabby Baroque splendor filled with artifacts left behind by a previous tenant. "I think there's a lot to that. It's all about looking at the same stuff in a different way.
"If somebody is really in touch with the way that they are going to say something, then it's like it's being said for the first time. I think that should be every artist's goal. To get rid of the extraneous stuff, you must get as much to your essential feeling about something as possible and then find a way of saying it clearly. Sometimes that's by doing it on the oblique."
Mr. Kelly's latest piece addresses, by indirection, reality, illusion and the loneliness of the artist. A small-town boy born in Round Rock, Tex., Vander Clyde became Barbette, for Cocteau the personification of art. Mr. Kelly plays both roles in the piece, which has a score by Bill Obrecht and also stars Robert LaFosse, a principal dancer with the New York City Ballet, and Mary Elizabeth Poore, a soprano.
The 90-minute work begins with Vander's Texas childhood and takes him through his first circus performances -- as part of a trio of aerialist sisters -- and on to Paris, fame and finally an embittered, arthritic old age. With his usual economy of means and with the help of 16-millimeter films by Anthony Chase, Mr. Kelly provides a multitude of settings, including the backyard where Vander does his first high-wire walking on his mother's galvanized clothesline, an ocean liner and the Paris theater where Barbette performs. Throughout, the piece incorporates images from Cocteau films and Man Ray's photographs of Barbette.
Mr. Kelly's own youthful awakening to the theater occurred when he was a child growing up in Jersey City, N.J., with a chance viewing of Galina Ulanova performing "The Dying Swan" on "The Ed Sullivan Show." Soon after, he saw a film of "Romeo and Juliet" with Margot Fonteyn and Rudolf Nureyev on television. On the radio, he had discovered classical music. His adolescence was also illuminated by the singing of Joni Mitchell and performances by members of the Cockettes, a San Francisco drag troupe he had seen with a high school friend in New York City.
ONE OF FIVE CHILDREN BORN to an insurance salesman and his wife, Mr. Kelly was a solitary child who was good at drawing and who loved the quiet of treetops and closets. He thinks he always knew he was gay.
"There was pressure to play sports, to be a 'guy,' to be aggressive," he said. "All that stuff didn't seem particularly interesting to me. I was told certain things about myself before I even knew what they were, by -- well, I wouldn't call them friends, in school. I think the way that young men are raised in America is kind of rotten and limiting."
After high school he went to New York to study ballet and performed with the all-male Original Trockadero Gloxinia Ballet Company, whose founder, Larry Ree, he has cited as an early influence. But Mr. Kelly was too old to master ballet technique. A long-building rage overtook him and found its expression in drag performing. "Then, it was a really nasty kind of thing to do," he recalled. "But it was also beautiful.
"And it was just about creating illusion. It wasn't about life style. It was kind of punk. Dagmar now is more elegant, but early on it was torn slips and stockings and teased-out wigs. Dark eye sockets."
Mr. Kelly left dance, with a finality he now regrets, enrolled in the Parsons School of Design and got the first of many waiter jobs in Greenwich Village restaurants. After two years he quit Parsons and worked on his art by himself, painting and drawing in his studio apartment to "wild orchestral music."
It was during a job sketching at a gay bar called the Anvil that he found himself as an artist. "This guy in drag, Tanya Ransom, was lip-synching Nina Hagen. But it was not girly-girl. He was like a banshee or siren. And Nina Hagen is pretty intense music, so it seemed like the music was coming out of his body. It was a total physical thing. I just said, 'My God, that's where I need to go.'
"I started doing that with Callas. Then one night in 1980 -- can I say this? I guess I can -- I was tripping, and I lip-synched a Callas aria in front of the mirror in my apartment and totally mesmerized myself because it was so perfect."
As he worked on it, the routine became almost choreographed. "I would orchestrate the breathing so it would register as if the sound was coming out of my body." So began his "inhabiting" of Callas, as later he would inhabit Schiele and would understand instinctively how completely Barbette took hold of Cocteau's imagination.
Mr. Kelly had long been drawn to the work of the flamboyant French writer and film maker. His introduction to Schiele occurred in art school. Inhabiting the Viennese Expressionist artist was not about being enticed into the mirror and self-portraiture. Instead, using characteristic poses and imagery, he "was grasping definitive or telling moments and giving them two-dimensional life via the accumulated recording of detail, like a puzzle," Mr. Kelly wrote in the Movement Research Performance Journal.
"And this 'visual diary' was highly active. I would find a pose and, to robust orchestral or meandering solo instrumental music, go on a journey of self-confrontation and exploration. Internal combustion with a residue. Egon Schiele, as my hero, pointed the way -- I attempted to go through his open door but to emerge into a place of my own."
Mark Russell, director of Performance Space 122, remembers an early Kelly act at that Lower East Side theater as "blowing everybody away. His choices were so right."
P.S. 122 has been a center for performance art. "Outlaws, renegades and the disenfranchised end up in this indefinable little category called performance," Mr. Russell says. "Performance allows them to define their work on their own terms. If John had come up through theater, he would have been told, 'You have to write things down, honey.' Or that he needed a director. Or that you could be a performer but you couldn't write.
"Performance allows the rules to be defined on the artist's own terms, with a slow process of building up craft to make it work. And as performance developed and people understood more of what was being said, artists got accepted back into the world from which they had been shut out. I consider John as making theater pieces now."
Many of Mr. Kelly's earliest performances were on the tiny back-room stage of Bobby Bradley's Pyramid Club in the East Village, a proving ground for many of today's best-known performance artists. His audiences were not always mesmerized, however, and one night he had to fight off a patron enraged by his lip-synching of "Sempre Libera" by jabbing at him with a plastic lightning bolt he had pulled from the ceiling decorations.
"People were there to dance and drink," Mr. Kelly said. "But when you grabbed the audience, it was incredible. The energy was so high, and it was such a point of communication. They should teach club performance at Sarah Lawrence and N.Y.U."
Nearly all of Mr. Kelly's later pieces grew out of 10-minute versions done at the Pyramid. Anything seemed possible. Anthony Chase, a longtime collaborator who created the film segments for "Light Shall Lift Them," began to work with Mr. Kelly there in 1983. "There was something very seductive about his way with the audience," Mr. Chase said. "He was so charming."
One of their first efforts was "The Onassis Story," an 8-millimeter black-and-white film in which Mr. Kelly played Dagmar, a loyal young fan, an elegant Callas and, by winding socks around his ankles and donning several pairs of gloves, Callas before her thinner and more glamorous days.
Mr. Kelly had been creating his own sets, painting backdrops on rolls of seamless photographer's paper. In 1984 he began a long collaboration with the late Huck Snyder, a gifted scenic designer whose work complemented and drove Mr. Kelly's vision. It was Mr. Snyder whose nerve helped the inarticulate performer move up the performance-art ladder into more mainstream theaters like P.S. 122 and, eventually, Dance Theater Workshop. It was there Mr. Kelly presented his signature piece, "Pass the Blutwurst, Bitte," an impressionistic analysis of Schiele and his work.
"Way back, John, Huck and I sat down and worked on the pieces together," Mr. Chase recalls. He and Mr. Kelly were fascinated with early silent and German Expressionist films, particularly by the lighting. "We'd explore how film would work textually, for example, how to weave that difficult, obtrusive medium into the performance. But as John grew, the work became his own conception."
As Mr. Kelly incorporated language into his increasingly complex pieces, he became even more specific about what he wanted, to the point of laying out scenes and the placement of props, sets and performers like movie storyboards.
He also made conscious decisions to stretch artistically, moving from short pieces to long ones, commissioning scores and challenging his physical skills by crawling along a rope strung high across the stage. For a performance at St. Mark's Church in the East Village, he created the 1983 "Long Live the Knife," a piece about castrati in which he tested his untutored countertenor and vocal technique.
Life experiences often helped to build a piece. "Love of a Poet," an acclaimed 1990 staging in the Romantic-era style of Schumann's "Dichterliebe," grew out of a suicide attempt in 1978, after a failed love affair, when at the last moment Mr. Kelly decided not to stab himself with a pair of scissors but to cut his hair.
"I'd get an idea for a piece and then I'd get ideas for -- well, here would be a great place to have a simultaneous close-up on film with a live action. I'd have these inner stirrings and urges, and I would find the best outlet for them, either in an existing character or a character that I would invent. And I would proceed from there. There would obviously be a certain kind of style. A certain kind of pacing. What dilemma is this character going through? Is there a rite of passage? Do the characters survive? Do they die? Are there other people in the piece that they react against? And each time I would do something new I would try to make a major leap."
THOSE LEAPS HAVE NOT brought Mr. Kelly enough money to live comfortably or to stage and revive his work with the consistency he yearns for. Few theaters bridge the gap between spaces like the clubs or P.S. 122 and the Brooklyn Academy of Music. And financing is always a problem. Mr. Kelly's company will be on an artistic hiatus for at least a year, he said, while it heals from the "hemorrhaging" caused by the expenses of producing "Light Shall Lift Them," which cost $175,000.
The climax of the ambitious piece is an aerial act performed by Mr. Kelly himself. It approximates Barbette's routine as described by a reviewer in the 1927 article in Theater Arts Monthly that provided Mr. Kelly with his title. It is a description that might apply to the frail but seductive art of performance itself.
"Like a coil of caught lightning, a spiral of steel is unwinding its way from one black point to another across the barren stage," the reviewer wrote of Barbette's tightrope, "a statement slung between two mysteries. . . . Narrow and nervous shines the stem that is she, as the leaves of her skirt are blown back by the wind that awakes from the weight of her walk."
Barbette is, in the moments following her act, a Kellyesque creature caught between the worlds that performance art invokes. "With a bow the figure, suddenly seeming very lonely, doffs the golden wig as though saluting something, and uncovers a head the shape of an egg, crowned with a skullcap of short black hair. Barbette is a boy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mr. Kelly as the artist Egon Schiele. Mr. Kelly's Mona Lisa nags Leonardo over how long it takes to paint her portrait. His Dagmar Onassis is modeled on Maria Callas. (Photographs by Tom Brazil); Mr. Kelly -- "Each time I do something new I try to make a major leap." (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: LIGHT SHALL LIFT THEM (PERFORMANCE ART WORK)

TICKER: EMG (LSE) (53%); WPO (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (73%); 

COMPANY: MAN GROUP PLC (53%); WASHINGTON POST CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (73%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; NEW WAVE FESTIVAL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); DANCE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); THEATER (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); MUSIC (75%); 

PERSON: DUNNING, JENNIFER; KELLY, JOHN (PERFORMANCE ARTIST) JOHN E KELLY (92%); ARISTOTLE SOCRATES ONASSIS (57%); MARIA CALLAS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



150 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 2; Page 22; Column 5; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: '20 BUCKS';
The First Antecedent

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As a film scholar, I am moved to comment on Lauren David Peden's article, " '20 Bucks,' a Film 58 Years Aborning" [Oct. 17]. Ms. Peden mentions that the screenplay, written in 1935 by the Hungarian producer Endre Bohem, is now being made by the screenwriter's son, Les. The premise of the script involves the peregrinations of a $20 bill as it passes from one hand to another. 
 Although Ms. Peden alludes to some cinematic antecedents ("If I Had a Million" in 1932, "Tales of Manhattan" in 1942 and "The Yellow Rolls-Royce" in 1965), she fails to mention the first film in which this plot was used: the 1925 silent "Adventures of a 10-Mark Note." This film, which predates the script for "20 Bucks" by a decade, was produced by Karl Freund, directed by Berthold Viertel and written by another Hungarian screenwriter, Bela Belazs. Belazs called his episodic script a "cross section"; it followed the random travels of a 10-mark note as it changed hands in inflation-ridden Berlin.
The film is often cited as an early instance of the Neue Sachlichkeit (New Objectivity) films.
 
FRANK P. TOMASULO
Atlanta, Ga.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: 20 BUCKS (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (50%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); GEORGIA, USA (50%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES FILM (91%); WRITERS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); 

PERSON: PEDEN, LAUREN DAVID

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



151 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 8; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: An Aging Midtown Hotel That Will Not Go Gently

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
NOW clad in a spindly web of scaffolding that heralds its imminent demise, the Hotel Diplomat in mid-Manhattan earns a place in civic annals not so much for its eccentric life as for its protracted death.
It has been nearly four years since the owners, the Durst Organization, filed a demolition application for the decrepit single-room-occupancy hotel at 108 West 43d Street. To create a home for the 31 residents they were displacing, the Dursts renovated Rosoff's Hotel across the street. Then they had to prod state housing officials to action, sometimes through court orders. They had to demonstrate that it made economic sense to replace a 13-story building with a one-story commercial "taxpayer" (so called because it pays the property-tax bills). 
 And they had to deal with two tenacious holdout tenants who, for eight months or so, were the only occupants of the 13-story building. One was a writer who says she was harassed by hotel employees and is suing for $108 million. The other was an elderly man who simply refused to go -- and not, apparently, out of financial desperation. A court-appointed guardian found that he controlled substantial bank accounts.
Douglas Durst, vice president of the family real-estate concern, said it was a "tragedy that taxpayers' money is wasted on this process," when demolition was the "only reasonable and logical outcome."
But was the system abusing the landlord? Or was the landlord abusing the system?
"I don't think the rent stabilization law was intended to empty a building with 160 affordable-housing units," said Leonidas B. Bell, a lawyer at the West Side S.R.O. Law Project, which represented all but one of the tenants who were at the Diplomat in 1990.
"Rather than provide a larger development," Mr. Bell said, "which arguably could be considered an improvement in the general real-estate situation in the City of New York, they're tearing down 160 affordable-housing units, which they had kept off the market as part of this speculative position, and replacing them with a one-story 'taxpayer,' of which there are plenty in the city."
Mr. Durst takes a different view. "Rent stabilization is not a preservation law," he said. "We did create 50 new housing units at Rosoff's without having any requirement to do so. The units at the Diplomat were certainly not habitable and it would have taken a huge investment to make them so. The building we're replacing it with will probably be assessed for around $1 million, and the city will get the benefit of those taxes."
The Diplomat did not begin its life 82 years ago as a hotel but as the Mother Lodge of the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks. It was turned into a hotel after a foreclosure in 1934. The Dursts bought it in 1969 but did not take over operations until 1985. The Diplomat was primarily transient but there were residents who had been living there since the 1940's, placing them under rent control.
At the time, the Dursts were actively assembling parcels west of the Avenue of the Americas, between 42d and 47th Streets, envisioning a kind of latter-day Rockefeller Center. In 1971, they also acquired the 49-room Rosoff's Hotel, 147 West 43d Street.
During the 1970's, the Diplomat was the site of Le Jardin discotheque and, in Room 1015, the cocaine arrest that began Abbie Hoffman's six-year underground odyssey.
By 1985, Mr. Durst said, the number of permanent residents had grown to about 100, while there were only 50 to 60 transients.
As long as the rent-controlled tenants remained, it was practically impossible to get a demolition permit, said the Dursts' lawyer, Gary M. Rosenberg, of Rosenberg & Estis.
Moreover, Local Law 9 of 1987 prohibited the demolition, alteration or conversion of single-room-occupancy hotels. Two years later, however, the New York State Court of Appeals ruled that the law amounted to an unconstitutional taking of property.
Also in mid-1989, the Dursts began talking with Chemical Bank about building a new headquarters on the west side of the Avenue of the Americas, between 42d and 43d Streets, the site that includes the Hotel Diplomat. Chemical needed large floor sizes. But the Dursts could not raze the Diplomat. So they moved the remaining occupants to the front of the building with the idea of demolishing the rear 70 feet of the structure, thereby creating space for Chemical. Eventually, negotiations with the bank collapsed.
The last tenant covered by the rent-control laws -- rather than the less-stringent rent-stabilization laws -- moved to a nursing home in January 1990. Within weeks, the Dursts filed for demolition. "We had to overcome the issue of, 'Why are you demolishing a 13-story building to build something smaller?' " Mr. Rosenberg said. "We were losing $500,000 a year, based on occupancy, maintaining staff, heating and everything else. It would take $14 million to $21 million to bring it up to the level of a second-class hotel. With 70 percent occupancy rates, we'd have a building that would make up the cash-flow loss but not make any return on investment. With a one-story 'taxpayer,' we could generate a 12 percent return on investment, but the investment would only be $2 million to $3 million."
Mr. Bell, the tenants' lawyer, said he thought the Dursts brought on their own woes. "The bottom line," he said, "is that they made a business decision to go for this big development project. They withheld units from the market and didn't do any upkeep. And then they came before the state and said, 'Hey, we can't make a go of this.' In my opinion, it was an abuse of the whole process."
The first relocation settlements were reached in June 1991. Tenants were offered their choice of rooms in the newly renovated Rosoff's, at the rents they were paying for their old rooms, about $200 to $400 a month. They were also offered $3,000 stipends, later raised to $5,000. Fourteen tenants accepted, Mr. Durst said, two moved into other Durst properties and two simply left.
IN March 1992, prodded by a court order to decide the matter, the state Division of Housing and Community Renewal approved the demolition application. In April, the Dursts applied to relocate the remaining 13 tenants to Rosoff's. After further prodding, state officials approved that application in October.
By November, only two tenants remained: Clement Gaines, who had lived there since the 1960's and Susan Baba, a writer who had lived there since 1981. They were evicted in June after Ms. Baba, representing herself, put up a strenuous fight at the Appellate Division of state Supreme Court.
"I feel my blood comes from that building -- that much I'm attached to it," she said, adding that it was a landmark on a par with the nearby Town Hall and Algonquin Hotel.
Although city housing officials found there had been no harassment by the Diplomat, Ms. Baba said she suffered "so much harassment." She said she was virtually "choked to death" by a hotel employee during an argument in the lobby in 1987. She said her phone had been tapped and her mail withheld, destroyed or thrown at her. And she is continuing her legal fight.
Mr. Rosenberg described her as a "pro se litigant who is playing the system," using the legal term for self-representation.
Mr. Gaines took the position that he would stay until ordered out. Even after an accidental fire gutted his room on New Year's Eve -- "the only thing to survive were the cockroaches under the books," Mr. Rosenberg said -- Mr. Gaines did not want to leave.
Although Mr. Gaines lived in squalor, Mr. Rosenberg said it was clear he had the means to take care of himself. In the course of a competency proceeding, Mr. Gaines showed a bank statement to his temporary court-appointed guardian with "far more than $100,000 in more than one account," according to the transcript.
Besides Ms. Baba, tenants "did not raise any issues of harassment," Mr. Bell said.
"I will not say that the Durst people harassed anybody," Mr. Bell said. "In fact, some of our tenants felt they were reasonable landlords. The dispute wasn't that they were doing anything illegal and hounding people out of the building. The dispute was the broader policy issue."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Hotel Diplomat on 43d Street west of the Avenue of the Americas in finally being torn down. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DURST ORGANIZATION; DIPLOMAT HOTEL (HOLLYWOOD, FLA) CHEMICAL BANK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DURST ORGANIZATION; DIPLOMAT HOTEL (HOLLYWOOD, FLA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; SINGLE-ROOM OCCUPANCY; DEMOLITION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE REAL ESTATE (91%); LITIGATION (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (87%); FAMILY (77%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); HOTEL STAFF (73%); LAWYERS (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); WRITERS (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



152 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2548 words

HEADLINE: Swords to Plowshares on Brooklyn Piers

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
BENJAMIN HAMALIAN was fed up. Pantrac, his company, was in a storefront space in East New York, a rather downtrodden section of Brooklyn. He had been robbed four times in eight years, and enough was enough.
Mr. Hamalian looked around Brooklyn, but all he found were expensive storefronts in unsafe neighborhoods. Then he moved Pantrac, which exports trucks and tractors, into 1,700 square feet of upstairs space at the Brooklyn Navy Yard. 
 Though the yard is bordered by Fort Greene, Williamsburg and Bedford-Stuyvesant, areas with considerable amounts of crime, security at the yard makes Mr. Hamalian comfortable. And, even including the use of a 5,000-square-foot outdoor lot, he is paying only $1,200 a month. Now he is talking about expanding into some warehouse space and hiring three local mechanics to work on parts.
"It's cheaper here and finally I feel safe," he said.
Edgar Berebi never felt unsafe in his Coney Island costume jewelry factory. But others did, and he had a terrible time getting people to work for him or store buyers to visit.
So four years ago he started looking for space. Rhode Island, Connecticut and New Jersey wooed him and his 200 manufacturing jobs with incentives, but he balked at training a new work force. Then one day, on a whim, he drove to the Brooklyn Army Terminal, now a city-run industrial complex.
"I'd been avoiding them because who wants to deal with a city bureaucracy?" Mr. Berebi said. "But I saw the posh lobby, the elevators, the benches under the trees where my workers could eat lunch, and I was hooked." Four weeks later he moved into 33,900 square feet at the terminal.
"About the only drawback is this place has attracted so many manufacturers that we have to compete for labor a little more," he said.
That is exactly the kind of complaint city officials love to hear. At a time when manufacturing jobs are leaving the city, and loft space continues to beg for tenants, city officials say the Brooklyn Navy Yard is 93 percent occupied and the newer Army Terminal's occupancy is up to 85 percent. Another 400,000 square feet of renovated space will be available at the Army Terminal in January, and management says there's a good chance that much of the space will have been leased by the time it is ready for occupancy.
CITY officials say that employers at the Navy Yard account for nearly 2,900 permanent jobs, about two-thirds from the local area. When ships are in for repair -- and some 17 ships will have been in dry dock this year alone -- 500 to 600 more people can find work there. Similarly, officials say that about half of the 2,600 people who work at the Army Terminal live nearby.
"We're trying very hard to reach out to minorities and local businesses," said Lee J. Benedict, a vice president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, which runs the terminal.
The employment figures are no coincidence. Although the Navy Yard is managed by a quasi-independent corporation, the city takes 10 percent of its rental income. And, since the city manages the Army Terminal itself, it keeps all the rent there. But revenues are not the reason for the projects. Indeed, because both yards are exempt from real estate taxes, and the city is responsible for losses they may incur, revenues are at best a wash with those generated by private commercial properties.
That point does not go unnoticed by real estate brokers.
"They can offer concessions that a regular loft building just can't give, and they are really hurting the private sector," said John Maltz, a director of Greiner-Maltz, an industrial real-estate company in Queens. "You've got the Army Terminal expanding at a time when loft buildings can't get $3 a foot, and from a tax standpoint, that's just not good for the city."
But city officials shrug off such criticisms. Both projects have mandates to be self-sufficient and provide jobs. As far as the city is concerned, the second mandate is paramount.
"We're a lot more flexible on rent with companies that are labor-intensive," said Stephen A. Berrang, an assistant vice president of the economic development corporation who handles the terminal's leasing.
Albert C. Wiltshire, the yard's chief executive, echoed that theme. "We could have this place 100 percent occupied overnight if we would rent good space to warehouses," Mr. Wiltshire said. "But our priority is manufacturers and others that create a lot of jobs."
Tenants document those claims.
J. Abouchar & Sons, which employs about 200 people to sew decorations onto towels, moved from Hoboken, N.J., into 55,900 square feet at the terminal about five years ago.
"The city gave us such a great deal that it's cheaper for us to operate here than it was in New Jersey," said Douglas S. Weigler, the company's general manager.
Until two months ago, when it fell victim to budget cuts, a New York State employment office operated rent-free at the Navy Yard, and tenants were required to notify the office whenever they had jobs available. Many did, and many grew.
MR. WILTSHIRE rattled off the names of tenants -- Agger Trading, a seafood company; All Ways Natural, which makes consumer grooming products; Ares Printing and In-Press Marketing, two printing and packaging companies -- that started small and that together employ a total of 180 people and rent a total of 120,000 square feet of space.
"We are an incubator, a place where infant businesses are nurtured and can grow," Mr. Wiltshire said.
The Army Terminal and the Navy Yard have similarities beyond the emphasis on jobs. Both offer ironclad security systems, access to a large pool of relatively skilled, low-wage labor and ample parking.
But the similarities end there. The terminal is a vertical industrial park, home to businesses that can afford extra amenities like a fancy lobby, a restaurant and, as of last month, a day-care center. Chase Manhattan has a new bank branch on the premises. The terminal has $25 million in state and city money earmarked for remodeling one of its piers for a high-speed ferry service linking Brooklyn and Manhattan.
The terminal, with rents at about $5 to $7 a foot, has wooed Wall Street operations as well as manufacturers. Last spring Salomon Brothers moved 120 back-office jobs into 32,000 square feet at the terminal from Manhattan. In July, Smith Barney Shearson contracted to put its printing and distribution operations into 250,000 square feet at the terminal, where it will employ about 250 people.
If the Army Terminal is the Four Seasons Hotel, then the Navy Yard is Motel 6. It is a serviceable but no-frills place catering heavily to start-up businesses.
"We are perfect for people who go out to see their clients," said Daniel Conlon, the yard's chief financial officer.
Even the yard's amenities are more practical than luxurious. It operates one building as a foreign trade zone in which tenants can import materials or parts and not pay duty until they ship the finished product. It has installed its own steam production system, which enables it to provide low-cost energy to tenants. Its rents rarely top $8 a square foot for the smallest spaces, and go as low as $3 for spaces larger than 10,000 square feet.
The differences between the terminal and yard arise as much from their histories as from physical variations.
The Navy Yard -- formerly and formally the New York Naval Shipyard at Brooklyn -- has an illustrious past. The Adams, America's first homebuilt warship, was built there in 1798; the Fulton, the first steam-powered warship, was launched there in 1837; the Monitor, the country's first metal-skinned ship, got its iron cladding there in 1861. During World War II the yard employed about 71,000 people to build, repair and outfit ships. When it was decommissioned in 1966, it had six working drydocks and about 270 buildings -- a total of 4.3 million square feet of rentable commercial space sprawled over more than 260 acres.
At that point the yard's past became checkered. In the early 1970's, New York City bought the yard from the Federal Government for $24 million. And it gave the Commerce, Labor, and Industry Corporation of Kings, a nonprofit corporation usually known as CLICK, the authority to operate the yard on a 99-year lease. CLICK started leasing space to large tenants.
The problem was that the tenants were not all solvent, and the officials were not all honest. In 1980 Mayor Edward I. Koch replaced the CLICK board after an audit turned up what it called "widespread fraud and mismanagement."
THE Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation, formed in 1981 to replace CLICK, inherited an operation that had fallen into disrepair. Five years later Coastal Dry Dock and Repair, the yard's largest tenant, went bankrupt, returning 1.5 million square feet of space, six drydocks and five piers to the pool of empty space. Real estate brokers, many of whom had not been paid their commissions under CLICK, would not even bring tenants in to look at the space.
"We were so broke we didn't even have the money to clean up the debris that Coastal left," recalled Thomas Montvel-Cohen, the yard's chief administrative officer.
Much like Scarlett O'Hara, the Navy Yard officials vowed that they'd never be hungry again. Although most of the tenants had come to the yard through word of mouth, the yard's leasing people reached out to real-estate brokers. The hope was that the brokers would bring in lots of little tenants, each of which would probably pay more per foot than larger tenants, and none of which could drag the yard down with it should it fail.
"We asked brokers to bring us their tired, their hungry, their poor, and not only would we rent to them, we'd pay full commissions," said William J. Hirschman, a director of the Cushman & Wakefield real-estate concern who is vice chairman of the Navy Yard board.
Clearly, the effort has paid off. In 1985, the year before Coastal's demise, the yard had 40 tenants, occupying an average of 73,000 square feet each, and accounting for $4.7 million in annual rental revenues. Today it has 201 tenants, more than half of which rent less than 5,000 square feet. This year the yard should collect $9.1 million in annual rental revenue.
The rule of thumb in the yard today is that no tenant should account for more than 5 percent of revenues. But it is not a hard-and-fast rule. "They will always be amenable to large tenants if space is available," said Dudley Maddern, an industrial broker with Crosstown Realty who has over the years put several large tenants in the Navy Yard.
Indeed, some of their most loyal tenants are behemoths by the yard's standards. St. Joe Distributing, which distributes books and occupies 200,000 square feet, was one of the yard's first tenants and thus has a miniscule rent of about $1.75 a square foot. It employs about 50 people, almost all from the neighborhood.
"I've had offers from New Jersey for space at $1 a foot, and that's without a 6 percent commercial tax, but I don't want to even think of moving," said Joal Savino, St. Joe's president. "Here, if I need new workers, I just ask my own people to send in their friends. And it's still a lot easier for publishers to get to Brooklyn than to New Jersey."
Still, the yard's focus remains on smaller tenants, and its management is increasingly providing the kind of services that small companies need. It started a newsletter and a series of tenant breakfasts in part to encourage tenants to do business with one another.
The yard also holds seminars and luncheons on topics like business insurance and training. It invites suppliers to give presentations; Citibank did four in the last two years. Since the mid-1980's it has more than doubled the security staff, to 55 guards, and quadrupled the security costs, to $1.6 million.
IT is also paying more attention to infrastructure. In the last few years the yard has refurbished many of its elevators, stepped up cleaning and painting, put in new roads, street lights and windows. This summer it spent more than $200,000 on a new heating system.
"When you're in expansion mode, you spend on vacant space," Mr. Conlon said. "In retention mode, you spruce up what is already occupied."
Still, the Navy Yard's main draws remain safety and economy. About a year ago Susan Griffith and her family started Bimshire Shippers to export American-made consumer products to the Caribbean.
Like most start-ups, Bimshire was a shoestring operation, and the rents Ms. Griffith was quoted -- $1,200 to $1,600 a month for storefront space in the shoddiest parts of town -- were more than she could handle. Then a friend told her about the Brooklyn Navy Yard, where she could get 1,300 square feet -- four times the amount of space she had been looking at -- for $650 a month.
"I can afford the space, and I'm not afraid of a stick-up here," Ms. Griffith said. Bimshire, which has since changed its name to Crystals Shippers & Movers, is nearing $150,000 in annual revenues, and Ms. Griffith is talking about doubling her space and adding an import side to her export business.
There would be no place for a tiny operation like Crystals at the Army Terminal. Everything there is on a grand scale.
Indeed, when the 97-acre terminal opened in September 1919, it was the largest of five supply bases rushed into construction to supply forces during World War I. But even then, the architect Cass Gilbert -- the designer of the Woolworth Building and the Custom House in Manhattan, as well as of the United States Supreme Court Building -- was told to create a complex that would be convertible into manufacturing buildings.
That was not as easy as the Government had hoped. The Army began vacating the terminal in 1966. The Navy and the Post Office occupied about a tenth of the space for a while, but by 1975 they, too, were gone.
The city bought the empty site in 1981. It tried to push the terminal as a center for the printing industry, only to discover that the ceilings and columns could not accommodate modern printing presses.
A PLAN to turn the terminal into a retail mall also failed when the city government decided that a mall would draw too much traffic from local businesses. Talk of turning it into a garment center hub or residential condominiums waxed and waned.
By the mid 1980's, the terminal was back to square one. It had four piers, many of them eaten away by marine borers. It had two huge buildings, each 980 feet long.
The larger building, 2.2 million square feet, has been subdivided into units of 18,000 to 34,000 square feet. The smaller has 1.8 million square feet, part of which is being carved into spaces of 5,400 to 9,200 square feet "to accommodate all the requests we've had for smaller spaces," Mr. Benedict said. It also has some warehouse spaces, many of which Mr. Benedict hopes existing tenants will use as they grow.
In a sense, the terminal has its own version of an incubator mentality. "Our dream is to create a place where a small manufacturer starts in 5,000 feet, moves to larger space, and then even uses a warehouse spot," said Mr. Berrang of the economic development corporation. "Sure, the more tenants, the more problems, but we are committed to helping businesses provide jobs."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Brooklyn Navy Yard, where each has leased space, are, from the left: Joal Savino, president of St. Joe Distributing, which ships books; Benjamin Hamalian of Pantrac, truck and tractor exporter; Susan Griffith of Crystals Shippers & Movers, exporter of goods to the Caribbean. (pg. 1); At the Brooklyn Army Terminal, from the left: Edgar Berebi, costume jewelry maker; Arthur S. Brody of Salomon Brothers; Douglas S. Weigler, general manager of a concern that sews designs on towels. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 11)
 
Map of Brooklyn showing locations of the Brooklyn Navy Yard and the Brooklyn Army Terminal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN NAVY YARD (NYC); BROOKLYN (NYC) UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; BROOKLYN ARMY TERMINAL (NYC); RENTING AND LEASING MILITARY BASES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); NAVIES (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); CITIES (86%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); SHIPBUILDING (76%); RELOCATIONS (76%); TRENDS (73%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (72%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (71%); LABOR FORCE (71%); COSTUME JEWELRY MFG (67%); BUILDING RENOVATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



153 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
Bridgeport Hopes a Dowdy Mall Can Spur Rebirth

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
LINED up along Broad Street in downtown Bridgeport are three sites, two to be developed, one already developed, that the city is betting will form the nucleus of its rebirth.
The centerpiece is the mostly empty, 450,000-square-foot Hi-Ho Mall, on 12 acres between Lafayette Boulevard and Broad Street. It was chosen by the state as the site for a $40 million project that will include a new Housatonic Community-Technical College, a state police barracks and offices for several state agencies that are scattered around Bridgeport in rented space. 
 Two blocks from the mall, at the corner of John Street, is the vacant Read's Department Store, a 68-year-old landmark under contract to Jonathan Bryer of Greenwich. His development company, Certified Historic Properties Inc., plans to convert the 165,000-square-foot building into 152 studio, one- and two-bedroom apartments renting for $600 to $1,300 a month, with a health club, pool, and shops at street level.
Mr. Bryer has until next August to arrange the financing before his contract expires. "Bridgeport has been a real estate disaster and everyone advised against this, but I enjoy a challenge," he said.
Between the two projects is a square block with 250,000 square feet of space, handsomely renovated a few years ago by the failed Citytrust Bank. It is 90 percent rented by the Chase Manhattan Bank and the Consolidated Asset Recovery Corporation, an arm of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and, until recently, the owner in foreclosure. It was sold earlier this year for $1 million to a group of Portuguese investors.
James Fagan, a vice president of CB Commercial Realtors in Stamford who represented the seller, said, "In the early 80's Citytrust probably had the property on its books for around $15 million."
The undistinguished architecture of the mall stands in stark contrast to the elegance of the bank building, but for most of its 25-year history the mall did well. Not until Gimbels moved out in the mid-1980's did the property's troubles begin. A hemorrhaging of departures followed, linked to the economic recession and including the strongest remaining retailers: Lerner's, Wallach's, Walgreen's and, in 1991, Sears.
Early in 1992 the state advertised for sites to relocate the Housatonic Community-Technical College, now in temporary quarters in 110,000 square feet of an industrial building in Bridgeport. One proposal came jointly from D'Addario Industries, the owner of the mall, and the City of Bridgeport, which owns the parking structure next to the mall.
News of the potential sale dealt the mall a death blow, rendering it unmarketable.
Only a dozen shops are still open. "We only get busy on the first and the 16th of the month, when the welfare checks come," said Sandra Hernandez, a saleswoman at J. Silver, one of a chain of 20 low-priced women's clothing stores. Its employees said they worried about the day it, too, would close.
"There is no industry left in Bridgeport so there are no working people to shop," said John Cerreta, the president of J. Silver,which is based in Norwalk. "Pilferage is high and safety is a factor."
Added Michael Freimuth, the director of economic development for Bridgeport: "Urban malls are dying all over the country. Having the school downtown is important for the city's rehabilitation."
Founded in 1966, Housatonic Community-Technical College, part of a state system, has an enrollment of 2,700 students, which is expected to rise to 4,500 in its new 170,000-square-foot building.
"We anticipate bringing in students from outside Bridgeport, via some 25 city and suburban bus routes," said Thomas K. Anderes, the deputy commissioner for finance and facilities at the State Department of Higher Education.
The cost of constructing the school building is estimated at $18 million. The rest of the $40 million will be spent on parking, landscaping and renovations of the Sears store for the state police and other state offices.
Last month the State Department of Public Works issued requests for development proposals, to be submitted by Jan. 21, 1994.
"Our target for completion of the project is July of 1996," said Richard J. Tedder, the director of management services for the Department of Public Works.
Complex three-way negotiations for the acquisition of the mall by the state are under way involving D'Addario Industries, the state and the city. "They should be concluded by the end of this year," Mr. Freimuth said.
Negotiations hinge in part on the mall's $2.5 million delinquent tax bill. In 1992 the city held a tax lien sale to try to collect, but there were no buyers. When he heard of the impending sale, David D'Addario, the president of the mall, sued the city in State Appellate Court, seeking an injunction to prevent it, but his request was denied. He then filed for a permanent injunction, questioning the constitutionality of the state statute governing tax lien sales.
"IT'S too Draconian," said Mr. D'Addario's lawyer, Stanton Lesser of Lesser and Sobel in Bridgeport, "depriving property owners of their equity without a hearing, when a simple foreclosure could be handled by the court in a fairer, participatory and more equitable manner."
Last May the City Council agreed not to take title to the mall, and an arrangement was reached whereby Mr. D'Addario would pay the back taxes and the state would go forward with the negotiations to buy the mall from him. The property was appraised at $6.8 million.
"I regard this as corporate welfare," said Dale Radcliffe, a Republican State Representative from the Bridgeport suburb of Trumbull. "D'Addario will pay the taxes out of proceeds from the sale, when the city could have taken the property in foreclosure for the taxes due and sold it to the state for less than the current price. It's not the obligation of the taxpayers to bail out a developer."
Joining him in dissent during the state legislature's consideration of bonding for the project was Senator George Gunther, a Republican from Stratford. "We were a distinct minority," Mr. Radcliffe said.
"If there was a realistic expectation that the state would have waited a year for a foreclosure proceeding to be concluded, when other sites were available, I would have pursued it," said Joseph Ganim, the Mayor of Bridgeport. "Out of five potential sites, this one does the most for the city and the college, and the state recognized that."
He added: "As for tax lien sales, we will continue to use that device, as we have done in many cases, reducing by several million dollars the $13 million in back taxes that I was faced with when I took office two years ago."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chase Manhattan Bank across from Hi-Ho mall in Bridgeport. Read's Department Store on John Street is to be converted to apartments. (David Carl Labianca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WAG (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (66%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (66%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (51%); SIC1611 HIGHWAY & STREET CONSTRUCTION, EXCEPT ELEVATED HIGHWAYS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (66%); D'ADDARIO INDUSTRIES INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRIDGEPORT (CONN) UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RETAILERS (88%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); FORECLOSURE (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); TRENDS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); BANK FAILURES (70%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); RECESSION (69%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (68%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



154 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: For Condo and Co-op Owners;
Two Conferences, Myriad Topics

 BODY:
People may bemoan the state of the New York co-op and condominium market, but that doesn't mean there's not a lot going on. Indeed, there are enough new developments -- and enough confusion about old ones -- to warrant two conferences on the subject, a couple of weeks apart.
The first, the Council of New York Cooperatives' 13th Annual Cooperative Housing Conference, will be held next Sunday. It will offer 85 workshops on a potpourri of topics, from refinancing a mortgage to current legal issues to dealing with graffiti (the "visual virus," as the brochure colorfully calls it). 
 For $60 for residents of member buildings (ask your board president) and $150 for others, attendees can pick two or three workshops, depending on workshop length. They can also visit a concurrent trade show, where insurance companies, lenders, interior designers, even washing-machine companies, will hawk their wares.
In a not-unexpected sign of the economic times, preregistration has been particularly heavy for the financial workshops, lower for the fun-but-not-essential ones.
"We may even have to cancel one on repairing stained glass, and that's a personal favorite of mine," said Mary Ann Rothman, the council's executive director. "Today, people look to financial ways to improve the quality of life."
The conference, which goes from 8:15 A.M. to 5:30 P.M., will be at Hunter College's West Building, on 68th Street and Lexington Avenue. For more information, call the council at (212) 496-7400.
If this conference whets rather than slakes your thirst for data, try the Federation of New York Housing Cooperative's 37th Annual Seminar & Trade Show for Housing Cooperatives & Condos, at Queens College's College Union Building in Flushing. This one, on Sunday, Dec. 5, is from 8:15 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. and deals almost entirely with legal and financial issues. Fees are $70 for Federation members, $100 for others. For more information, call the Federation at (718) 353-5080.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CO-OP ULM KONSUMGENOSSENSCHAFT EG (90%); CO-OP CHEMICAL CO LTD (90%); CO-OP '82 UA (90%); CO-OP ATLANTIC (90%); CO-OP SERVICES CREDIT UNION (90%); CO-OP STAR RT (90%); CO-OP ZAFON HYPERSHUK MARKETING CHAINS LTD (90%); CO-OP JERUSALEM AGUDA ZARCHANIT SHITUFIT LTD (90%); CO-OP BUILDING CONSULTANTS (90%); CO-OP MORAVA SRO (90%); CO-OP GRAIN & SUPPLY CO (90%); CO-OP COUNTRY FARMERS ELEVATOR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COOPERATIVES; CONDOMINIUMS RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (93%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INSURANCE (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (68%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (55%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%); INTERIOR DECORATING (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



155 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: O'Rourke Savors His Victory, While Awaiting Recount

BYLINE: By JAMES FERON

 BODY:
ANDREW P. O'ROURKE, a narrow winner in his bid for four more years as the county executive, said last week that he was fortunate to have avoided the fate of most other incumbents in the New York City area and claimed that "questionable tactics" by his opponent opened the way for his victory.
"Most of the undecided votes went to the challengers, but Richard's personal attacks," he said, referring to the six-term Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, his Democratic opponent, "never did him a bit of good, largely because he wasn't well known enough." 
 Mr. Brodsky, who lost by 1.6 percentage points, or about 3,400 votes of 211,000 cast, focused on what he saw as Mr. O'Rourke's ethical lapses, including recommending his live-in companion for a job with the county medical insurer and seeking other county-related jobs for family members.
"People looked at him and said, 'What kind of person makes these attacks?' Mr. O'Rourke said. "He wasn't well known enough. If you are going to attack someone, the first thing you do is build up your own positive value so that you are known. Richard never had the name recognition to make an attack and make it stick."
Peter W. Delaney, the former General Services Administrator who quit to run Mr. O'Rourke's campaign, as he did in 1989 when Mr. Brodsky was also the challenger, said, "We asked our pollsters to question people about the corruption issue, and the overwhelming answer was that it was having no impact."
 
'The Issue of Change'
 Mr. Delaney added: "The biggest message that was coming through, and this concerned us far more than the ethics issue, was the issue of change. Andy was in office a long time, 11 years, and maybe voters felt it was time for a change. That feeling pervaded all the incumbent races around the country, and the proof of that is what happened in New Jersey, New York City, Rockland and Orange Counties."
Mr. Delaney was referring to the narrow losses by Gov. Jim Florio to Christine Todd Whitman in New Jersey, by Mayor David N. Dinkins to Rudolph W. Giuliani in New York City, by the Rockland County Executive, John T. Grant, to Scott Vanderhoef and by the Orange County Executive, Mary M. McPhillips, to Joseph G. Rampe. All the winners were Republicans, the losers Democrats.
Mr. O'Rourke piled up a 6,000-vote lead in Yonkers, gaining 22,800 votes to 16,000 for Mr. Brodsky, more than compensating for Mr. Brodsky's best showing, in his hometown of Greenburgh, where he polled 14,000 votes to Mr. O'Rourke's 9,400.
 
Half of Absentee Ballots Counted
 Mr. Brodsky demanded a recount, which will be completed next week, probably by Tuesday. Absentee ballots will also be counted, although roughly half of the estimated 8,000 ballots were counted last week and included in Tuesday's totals.
The re-canvas will also produce results in 31 districts missing from the election night count, but Mr. Delaney said that the outcome of the race will not be changed, "because eight of the missing districts are in Eastchester, where Republicans hold an 855-vote plurality."
Other missing districts, including two in Rye Town, two in Mount Pleasant and one each in Pelham and Cortlandt, contain 1,600 more registered Republicans than Democrats. Democrats outnumber Republicans in four missing Yonkers districts and six White Plains districts, for a Democratic plurality of 350 votes.
 
'The Power of the Incumbency'
 Mr. Brodsky dismissed the notion that the ethics issue did not interest voters. "Our polls showed that it was important to voters," he said. "What you had were messages canceling each other out; he had taxes, and we had ethics and economic growth." The reference to taxes referred to Mr. O'Rourke's campaign to link Mr. Brodsky with "tax-and-spend liberals" in Albany.
"In the end, it was the power of the incumbency that did it; he wrapped himself in it," Mr. Brodsky said. He also observed that his campaign "had to deal with a nationwide Republican surge" as well as a shortage of funds caused by the money spent fighting the primary against Andrew J. Spano.
In other contests:
*Jeanine Ferris Pirro, a former assistant district attorney who resigned as County Court judge to run for district attorney, won easily over Michael G. Cherkasky, a former prosecutor in the office of the Manhattan District Attorney. Mrs. Pirro, a Republican, succeeds Carl A. Vergari, who is retiring after 25 years. Mrs. Pirro won 56 percent of the vote to Mr. Cherkasky's 41 percent.
*Leonard N. Spano, a longtime Republican member of the Board of Legislators, won the post of county clerk, replacing Andrew P. Spano, no relation, a Democrat who gave up the post to run for county executive. He lost in a primary to Mr. Brodsky. Leonard Spano won the clerk post, defeating James P. Doody, the Eastchester Supervisor, with a vote of 51 percent to 46 percent.
*Sy J. Schulman, a first-term Common Council member and a Democrat, won a three-way race for mayor in White Plains. Mr. Schulman, who served for many years as president of the Westchester County Association, which represents major employers in the county, received 42 percent of the vote, and his two opponents split most of the rest of the vote. The incumbent, Alfred Del Vecchio, ran on the Conservative line after losing the Republican primary to Councilman Michael A. Coffey. Mr. Del Vecchio took 29.5 percent of the vote, Mr. Coffey 25 percent.
 
Board Still Republican
 The Board of Legislators remains in Republican hands, although how tightly will not be known until votes in the Fourth District in northern Westchester are recounted. Andrew J. Donovan, a Republican-Conservative, appeared to have narrowly won over the incumbent Democrat, Judith A. Shepard, by 49 votes out of 15,075 cast.
In another apparent upset, a Republican-Conservative, Paul J. Noto, the five-term Mayor of Mamaroneck, unseated a two-term Democratic Legislator, Martin L. Rogowsky, a lawyer. Mr. Noto got 50 percent of the vote to Mr. Rogowsky's 47 percent.
Two former Democratic seats on the Board, filled with Republicans by the Republican-controlled legislature after the incumbents won election to the State Assembly, were returned to the Democratic column.
One was the Eighth District, redesigned by the Board in May as a minority district stretching through parts of White Plains, Scarsdale, Greenburgh and New Rochelle. Pearl C. Quarles, a Republican who was appointed to replace Assemblywoman Audrey Hochberg, lost to Lois T. Bronz, a former member of the Greenburgh Town Board. Mrs. Bronz garnered 55 percent of the vote to Mrs. Quarles's 34 percent.
In the Ninth District, covering New Castle, Ossining and Briarcliff, the seat once held by Assemblywoman Sandra R. Galef now goes to the Democrat Richard G. Wishnie, who beat Barbara C. Fratianni, 55 percent to 43 percent. Both are former Ossining town Supervisors. The Republican incumbent, Mark S. Tulis, appointed to replace Mrs. Galef, did not run.
Another newcomer to the Board, although with a familiar name, is Michael J. Spano, a Yonkers Republican, who won election to the seat that had been held for 22 years by his father, the new County Clerk. Michael Spano beat Bernice Sprechman, a former Yonkers City Council member. Another brother, Nicholas A. Spano, is a State Senator.
The process of filling vacancies on the Board of Legislators by appointment, long fought by the minority Democrats as undemocratic, came to an end on Election Day with overwhelming approval by voters of a proposition requiring special elections to fill vacancies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS; COUNTY EXECUTIVES COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); ETHICS (73%); BALLOTS (72%); CORRUPTION (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (53%); 

PERSON: O'ROURKE, ANDREW P (COUNTY EXEC); BRODSKY, RICHARD L (ASSEMBLYMAN); FERON, JAMES RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



156 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 22; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: WESTCHESTER GUIDE

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:

PERSIAN POETRY
Works by the 13th-century Persian poet Jela Luddin Rumi will be read in English translation by the American poet Coleman Barks on Monday at 8 P.M. in the Academic Arts Theater at Westchester Community College in Valhalla. Mr. Barks will be accompanied by Paul Halley, Eugene Friesen and Glen Velez, an improvisational piano-cello-percussion trio from the Paul Winter Consort, which has performed with him at the Manhattan Theater Club and elsewhere. 
 Mr. Barks has spent the last 14 years translating the Rumi works, which are laced with the mysticism of the Sufi branch of Islam. To date 12 volumes of the poems have been translated and published by his own company, Maypop Books in Athens, Ga., Threshold Books in Putney, Vt., and various other publishers. A selection of the poems will be included in the Norton Anthology of World Masterpieces, to be published later this year. Mr. Barks undertook the translations with a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts in 1979. His own book of poems, called "The Juice," was published in 1971 by Harper & Row in New York, and a new volume titled, "Gourd Seed," is due out by the end of this year, under his own banner.
The college is at 75 Grasslands Road; and admission to the reading is free. The number to call for more information is 785-6600.
 
CARAMOOR OPERA BENEFIT
 Four years ago Will Crutchfield forsook his position as a music critic and turned to music itself as a principal vocation. Since then he has conducted at Lincoln Center, Wolf Trap, the Sarasota Opera, the Brooklyn Academy of Music and Mannes College in Manhattan. He is now on the faculties of Mannes College and the Juilliard School, and he continues to write about music for a variety of publications.
On Saturday at 8 P.M. he will conduct a benefit performance of Rossini's "Barber of Seville" at Caramoor in Katonah, providing a narration in English between scenes. The cast, wearing costumes by Cynthia Dumont, will be accompanied by a chamber orchestra in a version of the work that falls between a concert performance and full staging.
Keith Spencer has the role of Figaro. Marguerite Krull is Rosina, and Dan Montez portrays Count Almaviva. Rubin Wilcox is Fiorello. David Shapero plays Doctor Bartolo, and Hyung-Il Moon is Don Basilio.
Tickets at $100 include a champagne reception at intermission. They may be reserved by calling 232-3681. Proceeds will benefit the center's music and art programs.
 
HOMOSEXUALITY SEMINAR
 A colloquium on "Homosexuality: Concerns and Dilemmas," sponsored by the Graduate Department of Pastoral and Family Counseling at Iona College, will be held in Joyce Auditorium at Murphy Center on the New Rochelle campus on Saturday. Registration begins at 9:00 A.M. with Continental breakfast, and the program will continue through mid-afternoon. The fee will be $22 at the door or $20 in advance.
"This colloquium has been organized around the notion that homosexuality is not necessarily fixed in the psyche," said one of the panelists, Dr. E. Mark Stern, professor of graduate pastoral and family counseling at the college.
"Abstinence for the Homosexual" will be discussed by the Rev. John Harvey, professor emeritus at Catholic University of America in Washington, and "Multi-Causations of Homosexuality" is the topic chosen by Dr. Maria Valdes, a New Jersey psychologist. "Homosexuality in the Light of Jewish Tradition" will be examined by Dr. Arnold Zucker, a faculty member at Iona, And the title of a talk by Elizabeth Moberly, a graduate of Cambridge University in England and currently a therapist in Pennsylvania, is "Can Homosexuals Choose to Change?"
Other topics include "Some Moral Observations on the Homosexual Lifestyle" and "Sadomasochism and Idolatry," to be discussed, respectively, by Msgr. William Smith of St. Joseph's Seminary in Dunwoodie, N. Y., and by Dr. Stern.
Iona is at 715 North Avenue, and the phone numbers for more information or advance reservations are 633-2418 or 636-6623.
 
EXHIBITION OF STELES
 Stephen J. Ostrander creates his sculptured and polychromed wood steles from found wood stumps, embellished with paint, shells, bone, seeds and other natural objects. They are inspired by ancient Anasazi, Maya and Assyrian civilizations. "Artists should treat the future as sensitively as the past," he said, believing, as many ancient cultures did, that past, present and future are an uninterrupted circle.
An exhibition of his work, which includes a collection of his photographs, opens at the Sleepy Hollow Gallery, at 231 1/2 South Highland Avenue in Briarcliff Manor on Saturday and remains through Dec. 2.
The photographs, shot in France, the American West, Middle West and New York, depict landscapes, wildlife and abstract subjects. Prices for the steles, which run from six inches to eight feet tall, start around $25 and rise to $600. The photographs are $25 to $200. Hours are Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. For more information, the number to call is 762-2910.
 
MURAL TO BE UNVEILED
 Students from the Museum School of the Arts and Sciences, School 25 in Yonkers, have created a mural that will be installed in the Yonkers Metro-North station on Wednesday. Ceremonies will begin at 10 A.M., open to the public free of charge.
The magnet school, with its special arts and science orientation, maintains an ongoing relationship with the Hudson River Museum in Yonkers, where the mural was executed. Twelve boys and girls participated in its design and painting, guided by Sone Tower, an artist from Ossining. The work was begun when the students were fourth graders in April and was completed on Oct. 15 when they had become fifth graders.
Selected for their artistic ability, and working under the supervision of their teachers, the children researched the project by making preliminary drawings of flora and fauna in the Hudson River region and by studying the social and political history of the Yonkers area.
The irregularly shaped mural, which measures 16 feet long by 11 feet high, will be placed on an interior wall of the 1911 Beaux Arts station, designed by the firm of Whitney Warren and Charles Wetmore of Manhattan.
 
KESSLER RETROSPECTIVE
 George Edward Kessler, a pioneering landscape architect and city planner who died at the age of 61 in 1923, will be the subject of a retrospective exhibition at Wave Hill in the Bronx, opening today and running through Jan. 2. Organized by the Cincinnati Historical Society, the collection of drawings, postcards, photographs and other documentation of his life and commissions will be on display in the Glyndor Gallery in the Riverdale estate.
The opening will be marked today with a slide-talk by Kurt Culbertson, an authority on Kessler's work and a member of the Design Workshop, a landscape and city-planning firm in Aspen, Colo.
Kessler, German by birth, came to the United States as a child, returned to Germany for his professional training and came back to America in 1882, when he began work on a Kansas train station and park. His approach was interdisciplinary, combining transportation, housing, economic development and open parkland. His vision, emulating the designed cities of Europe, was well received in the Middle West, where a taste for urban European elegance had developed.
Among his commissions were the Louisiana Purchase Exposition of 1904, the city plan for Dallas, which became a landmark in its field, and numerous parks and boulevard systems in Kansas City, Cincinnati and other Middle Western municipalities.
Wave Hill, at West 249th Street, is open Tuesdays through Sundays from 9 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. There is no charge for admission on weekdays. Admission today and all weekends and holidays is $4, $2 for people 65 and older and students. For more information, the number to call is (212) 549-3200.
 
McCULLOUGH ON TRUMAN
 The historian David McCullough, narrator of the PBS series "The Civil War" and author of such highly praised works as "Truman" and "The Great Bridge," will give a free lecture on Tuesday at 8 P.M. at Sarah Lawrence College in Yonkers. The talk, titled "Harry S. Truman and the Ideal of Public Service," celebrates the newly created Joanne Woodward Chair in Public Policy.
The chair, established through the Newman Foundation in honor of Ms. Woodward -- who graduated recently in the class of 1990 and who has been a trustee from 1986 to 1993 -- will help underscore the college's efforts to integrate liberal arts courses with major public-policy issues. The talk in Reisinger Auditorium will be followed by a reception in the Performing Arts Center. The number for more information is 395-2220. ELEANOR CHARLES

GRAPHIC: Photo: One of Stephen J. Ostrander's works at the Sleepy Hollow Gallery in Briarcliff Manor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ATHENS, GA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (56%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (56%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ATHENS, GA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POETRY (92%); PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); THEATER (89%); OPERA (89%); MUSIC (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); ENDOWMENTS (77%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (76%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); CHARITIES (72%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (70%); RELIGION (70%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (69%); MUSIC REVIEWS (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (62%); 

PERSON: PAUL THEODORE WINTER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



157 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Watch What They Pay, Not What They Say

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
RISING interest rates threw a bucket of cold water on Wall Street last week, but didn't come close to extinguishing the speculative fires.
These days, the fastest way to get a small stock moving is to tell a bullish story on television, especially cable television. Quote an unnamed money manager or two about how a company has excellent prospects, and the stock will leap. An hour later, a report will note that the stock is moving, and refer to the earlier report, bringing in more buyers and provoking more reports. This can go on for days. 
 Consider the wonderful case of Bowmar Instruments. The older folks in the audience will remember when Bowmar briefly dominated the pocket calculator market. Since then, it has become a small military contractor making semiconductors that are supposed to withstand harsh environments. It is marginally profitable.
On Monday, CNBC broadcast a bullish report on Bowmar, making up in optimism what it lacked in specifics. Bowmar has a float of about 4.5 million shares in public hands, and more than half of them traded last week, pushing the price from $2.375 to $5.625. It slipped back to $4.50 when the company said the only news it was aware of was the CNBC report and later reports on the report.
Atari, the one-time video game leader, has also benefited from enthusiastic broadcast reports. There, the optimism is about the company's new Jaguar game system, which will go on sale this month in New York and San Francisco.
Atari may or may not prove to be an example of a company returning from the dead. But it does provide a textbook case of how information can be manipulated to affect how investors perceive a company.
Sam Tramiel, the president of Atari, now recalls the excitement he felt in March, when tests showed the final version of Jaguar worked as expected.
But there was no hint of Mr. Tramiel's excitement in April, when the company reported more losses, or in May, when the board proposed a one-for-ten reverse stock split. Such a split appeared to indicate the stock was unlikely to rally.
A few days later, Mr. Tramiel bought 4 million shares, at 94 cents each, the market price. The seller was his father, the company's chairman, so the transaction looks more like estate planning than insider trading. In June, the company called off the reverse split and announced "the phenomenal Jaguar."
At Atari's current price of $11.375 per share, it has a market capitalization of $650 million, or almost nine times pre-Jaguar annual revenues. That might be justified, if Jaguar is able to knock off Sega and Nintendo and once again dominate the market. But that is uncertain, to say the least. Jaguar has better graphics, but fewer games and a much higher price.
Under securities law, Mr. Tramiel may legally sell Atari stock later this month. Will he do so, or will he wait until Jaguar's success or failure is apparent?
"Anything is possible," he said, adding that diversifying his own portfolio "might be a good idea."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: Graphs showing the dow for the past week, Atari daily closing prices from may to Nov. and Bowmar daily closes from Oct. to Nov.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BOWMAR INSTRUMENTS; ATARI CORP NINTENDO CO LTD (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOWMAR INSTRUMENTS; ATARI CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; TELEVISION TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK SPLITS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); BONDS (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); TOYS & GAMES (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INSIDER TRADING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); COMPUTER GAMES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (63%); SECURITIES LAW (63%); PERSONAL FINANCE (63%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD SAM TRAMIEL (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



158 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
Ties to China Lift Hong Kong Index

BYLINE: By Barbara Basler

DATELINE: HONG KONG

 BODY:
THE stock market here has soared to a series of record highs recently, largely because of this colony's tantalizing connections to mainland China.
Clive Weedon, head of research at the Nomura Research Institute, said the Hong Kong index -- which has grown more than 70 percent in 1993 -- "will probably end the year as the best performing market in the world." 
 Fund managers from the United States, Europe and Japan have been competing frantically for Hong Kong local blue chip stocks, as a way to "play" mainland China, and that money is the moving force behind the market's phenomenal rise.
"The Hong Kong market is a proxy for the mainland; it's really the only way to play the Chinese economy," said Peter Churchouse, Morgan Stanley's research director for the Asia-Pacific market.
This British colony reverts to mainland control in 1997, but for years its economy has been inextricably bound to China's economy, and both are booming now. Moreover, the Hong Kong stock market not only lists many local companies that do business with China, it even lists a handful of companies wholly owned by the People's Republic of China.
"I think the whole speculation fever here really began about this time last year, when mainland companies started to seek listings on the Hong Kong exchange," said Robert Broadfoot, director of the Political and Economic Risk Consultancy Ltd.
As China has continued to open its economy and encourage more homegrown capitalism, foreign brokerage houses, especially American firms, have been expanding here in order to be close to the mainland action.
Now this tiny colony is awash in foreign investment funds, and many believe the torrent of new cash will carry the Hang Seng index to a permanent new level, where its stocks will be routinely traded at a higher-than-ever price-to-earnings ratio. But the Hang Seng is notoriously volatile, and even brokers who believe the upward trend will continue for the next six months warn that the market will move in fits and starts.
With institutional investors bidding fiercely for shares, prices have risen with dizzying speed. The Hang Seng index, which began the year at 5,512, gained more than 1,500 points in October alone as the rush of foreign money pushed up the index from 7,622 to 9,329 -- its biggest leap ever.
On Oct. 29 it rose 318 points. "It was a case of close your eyes and buy," one dealer said.
Last Monday, foreign investors continued their buying, and the index gained another 300 points to close at a record 9,629.
The atmosphere around the stock exchange has been so heady, the Financial Secretary recently warned excited local investors that this market "is not something for widows and orphans."
After the market rose 13 points on Tuesday, to 9,642.91, profit taking began and the index fell, closing out the week at 8,996.93. One dealer said he thought the index would soon "hit 10,000 or 11,000, but not in an unbroken line." Mr. Weedon said the index is likely to remain high because no other world market currently offers Hong Kong's combination of high growth and minimal currency risks (the Hong Kong dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar).
"The Japanese institutions began to come into the Hong Kong market over the past two weeks," Mr. Churchouse said. "They could become major players here.
"That's one reason why I don't think Hong Kong will tumble off its high perch yet," he added. "The Japanese have just arrived and they are not yet ready to go home."
Brokers here said fund managers are re-evaluating the acceptable price-to-earnings ratio of Hong Kong shares. After the killing of pro-Democracy students in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in 1989, Hong Kong's stock market plummeted, and foreign investors dumped their shares.
But as China continued to open its economy, Hong Kong's market recovered, and institutional investors took a more favorable view of its shares.
"Today, at 13.5 times earnings, Hong Kong shares are seen as a bargain," Mr. Churchouse said, adding, "I think they could even trade up to 18 times earnings and still be sought after."
Stocks had already been moving up this year when, half a world away in New York, Morgan Stanley's chief investment strategist, Barton Biggs, declared he was "maximum bullish" on China and Hong Kong -- and the Hang Seng soared.
Asked how much of the last two weeks' bull market was attributable to Mr. Biggs, Mr. Churchouse said, "We played a role, but only perhaps by focusing attention on China and Hong Kong."
Brokers said the Hang Seng index, which used to rise and fall whenever Britain and China squabbled over Hong Kong, now tends to ignore politics. Even the latest battle over more democracy in Hong Kong, which reached a heated pitch of name calling and accusations last spring, has been viewed as "a sideshow," one analyst said.
According to Mr. Weedon, "It's what's happening in the Chinese economy that counts."
But Mr. Broadfoot, the consultant, said that while brokers may be discounting politics, "in China, the economy is always second to politics. And right now there are huge political risks hanging over China.
"There is the question of what political price the party will pay to control inflation, and how far will market reforms go before they spark political unrest?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (83%); 4307 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (83%); NOMURA RESEARCH INSTITUTE LTD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HONG KONG; CHINA CHINA (97%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MUTUAL FUNDS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); BONDS (73%); TRENDS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (63%); 

PERSON: BASLER, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



159 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1634 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary, October 31 - November 5

BYLINE: By Hubert B. Herring

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
Wall Street's Long Party Gets a Rude Interruption
Long rallies in the stock and bond markets survived an often-nasty October, but the first week of November was something else. Things were going fine as long as the economy was growing steadily and slowly. But suddenly in the middle of last week the growth seemed perkier, and the alarms went off. Interest rates, which had been dozing way down below 6 percent, headed straight up, and investors suddenly remembered that there was life -- and possibly better returns -- beyond stocks. Or, the way these things work, they figured everyone else would think that way. In any case, the Dow industrials, after notching new records early in the week, did an about-face, losing 73 points in two days. The Dow steadied on Friday, but most of the market kept retreating. And it was a busy week, with Big Board volume the second-highest ever. The only busier week? The week of the October 1987 crash. 

Home Sales Rise (but Not Alone)
The economic numbers did spill out last week, one after another pointing upward. One surprisingly big gain was for new-home sales, up 20.8 percent in September. But that strong signal had plenty of company: third-quarter productivity up at a 3.9 percent rate, late-October car sales up 10.3 percent, September factory orders up 0.7 percent . . . and on and on. The rise in home sales was the biggest since 1986, back when it still seemed you could never go wrong in real estate. So if interest rates keep heading up, all those people who bought houses in September may have timed it just right, catching mortgage rates at rock-bottom. But, clearly, people are doing a lot more than buying houses.
 
Back Into the Work Force
One of last week's rising numbers would not seem welcome -- the unemployment rate. But a close look shows that it's a good sign, too. The rate did go to 6.8 percent in October from 6.7 percent. But apparently it rose because some once-discouraged people started pounding the pavement again. In fact, 177,000 jobs were added to payrolls. But the bad news is that 40 percent of those jobs were at temp agencies -- hardly the stuff of new careers.
 
Debating 10 Seconds At a Time
It's the American way. Thoughtful debate degenerates into slogans easily gulped by the couch potato crowd. And so it was with health care, as insurers rolled out ads with phrases to catch the restless ear: The plan will "take away choice." When spending hits a limit, "That's it!" "There has got to be a better way." Last week, Hillary Clinton joined the fray, lashing out at the ads. Insisting that the plan "enhances choice," Mrs. Clinton slammed insurers as "the very industry that has brought us to the brink of bankruptcy." Mr. Clinton pitched in, too, blaming the "overcomplicated, burdensome, bureaucratic" rules of insurers. It must feel good for the Clintons to vent their frustration in plain English after the endless meetings, the reams of reports.
 
Is the Health Plan Bulletproof?
The last thing the Clintons need is another enemy of the health plan, especially one like the gun lobby. But Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan moved to put the plan right in their sights last week. He decided, quite reasonably, that when people get shot, they've got a health problem. So, saying that "guns don't kill people, bullets do," he suggested that if a box of especially nasty bullets cost thousands of dollars, not $24, sales might taper off. To that end, he proposed that a 10,000 percent tax on certain bullets be tacked on to the health bill. And as head of the Finance Committee, he might do it. So don't be surprised if you see a copy of that bill used for target practice.
 
An Instant Philanthropic Giant
How do you exist when you're worth $1 billion? It's de rigueur to have numerous homes -- Doris Duke, who just died, had them all over -- so you've got to keep moving constantly. But where do you keep your toothbrush, your favorite slippers, that novel you just set aside? Miss Duke, the heiress whose family gave Duke University its name, kindly did not impose such a life on anyone, putting most of her fortune to the public good. Her will, filed last week, instantly created one of the nation's biggest philanthropies. Other gifts, from the loose change, included $10 million to the Metropolitan Museum.
 
A Radical Welfare Test
On President Clinton's long list, "Things to Change," is welfare. So when Wisconsin asked for a Federal blessing on a two-year limit on benefits, the Administration granted it, not wanting to shy from such a test. But this test could be harsher than Mr. Clinton envisioned: after two years, you're out unless you get an exemption. There's no community-service option if you haven't found a job. But a Children's Defense Fund official was quick to say, "Children shouldn't be punished when parents can't find jobs."
 
COMPANIES
 
At I.B.M., a Lowly Milestone
Remember when the thought of I.B.M. stock sinking below $100 was like glimpsing the end of civilization? Could anyone have imagined the day when it was newsworthy for it to go above $50? Well, last week it did. Why? For one thing, the chairman, Louis V. Gerstner Jr., insisted that "I.B.M. is on the right track." One number seemed to back him up -- a smaller-than-expected quarterly loss -- and a key analyst gave the thumbs-up. So eager investors bid the stock higher, though by Friday it had slipped back to $49.875. But is it a bargain? Some have doubts, saying that scorched-earth cost-cutting -- Mr. Gerstner's apparent approach -- just doesn't compute here. What's needed, they say, is a top-to-bottom, chip-to-mainframe reinventing of I.B.M.
 
The Latest Fad: TV Networks
These days, you rarely see the word "television" without "cable." One might almost forget that the dinosaurs called networks once ruled the screen. But now, suddenly, everyone wants to start a network. Paramount recently made its plans, and last week Warner Brothers got into the act, saying it intended to create a network called WB, built on six independent stations. Trouble is, there may not be enough stations up for grabs.
 
I Shop, Therefore I Drop
To live is to shop. The mall's always open, and at home you can browse on shopping channels or flip through those 97 catalogues that attack your mailbox daily. But wait. Against all odds, one corner of this busy, busy land has clung to the quaint notion of a day of peace. Even as New Jersey voters were throwing out their Governor last week, Bergen County upheld its ban on Sunday retailing. So all those malls in Paramus, which are just aching to keep their wares flowing, will have to keep watching tearfully as the credit-card-wielding hordes head across the county line to get their shopping fix. . . . Some, by the way, argue that for sanity's sake, all shoppers should skip a day [Page 11]. Maybe then you'd be reading this on Sunday, not Monday.
 
Lost in the Paramount Maze
The business pages should get a lot less confusing if anyone defies the odds and actually buys Paramount. For now, one only hopes all those people are keeping their alliances, and their decimal points, straight. Take a deep breath and sort out the latest: Last week BellSouth, which had weighed its own Paramount bid, seemed poised to chip in $2 billion to help QVC's offer. But follow the maze: Bell Atlantic, a BellSouth rival, is buying Liberty Media, and Liberty Media, yes, owns 22 percent of QVC. So because BellSouth didn't want to be partners with a rival, part of its investment would go to buy out Liberty Media's stake. But to spice things up a bit more, this week Paramount may try to buy Macmillan, the publishing house. Had enough?
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
New Heights for Italy's Scandal
Italy's bribery scandal reached the penthouse last week: Carlo De Benedetti, head of Olivetti and one of the nation's richest people, was arrested and interrogated. But even though a Rome judge said of the arrest that "the law is the same for everybody," Mr. De Benedetti, who is accused of authorizing more than $7 million in bribes, did not exactly languish behind bars. Within hours, he was released. Mr. De Benedetti's defense has been, basically, that everybody did it. Considering the thousands of business executives and politicians implicated, that's probably not an exaggeration.
 
Squeezing Haiti's Drug Trade
In its effort to return Jean-Bertrand Aristide to power in Haiti, the United States has been pinning its hopes on a trade embargo. But the embargo may have a potent side effect. Illegal drugs are said to have provided some military leaders with a tidy sideline, but drug traffickers want none of the hassles of dealing with Haiti right now. So more and more, Haiti's military stands alone.
 
In Germany, Deadly Profits
In the business world, there are misdeeds and there are misdeeds. If apple juice is stretched with sugared water, or if that 10-ounce box holds 9 ounces of cereal, the consumer is cheated slightly. An unthinkable crime, though, would be to sell H.I.V.-infected blood. But that's what a German company is accused of doing, either knowingly or through lax testing. The company, UB Plasma, has been shut down, its manager and others arrested. And last week the anxiety flowed across Europe, as Italy, France, Switzerland, Austria and Sweden halted the sale of the company's blood. An estimated two million Germans received the blood at hospitals. Has the profit motive run amok?
 
Can't Fight 'em? Debate 'em
Ross Perot is back. In the next week or so, he'll lug his graphs and one-liners to prime time to debate Al Gore on the North American Free Trade Agreement. Bill Clinton offered to send his second into the jaws of stand-up politics, and Mr. Perot accepted.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carlo De Benedetti
 
Graphs: Graph showing dialy closes at I.B.M. For Oct. and Nov. (Source: Datastream); Graph showing yeild on a 30-year bond and the Dow Jones industrial average. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WORK FORCE ARCHITECT (53%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY REAL ESTATE (91%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); INSURANCE (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (70%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (67%); PRODUCTIVITY (65%); FACTORY ORDERS (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



160 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1862 words

HEADLINE: Does Industrial Policy Work? Lessons From Sematech

BYLINE: By KATIE HAFNER; Katie Hafner, a writer living in Austin, Tex., is a co-author of "Cyberpunk: Outlaws and Hackers on the Computer Frontier."

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex.

 BODY:
THE world has changed for Sematech, the Government-subsidized consortium of semiconductor manufacturers formed amid much criticism in 1987 to rescue an industry faltering against Japan.
When its president and chief executive, William J. Spencer, goes to Washington these days, it is not so much to ask as to bask. Politicians of many stripes give Sematech a lot of the credit for the recent turnaround in the United States chip industry. President Clinton last February called Sematech "a model for Federal consortiums funded to advance other critical technologies." A Congressional hearing on the consortium last summer was more love feast than inquiry: Everyone from Gov. Ann Richards of Texas to the House majority leader, Richard A. Gephardt, heaped praise on Sematech. 
 Other industries now hold up Sematech as an example for American industry. The aerospace industry, increasingly threatened by Europe's Airbus consortium, would benefit from proposed legislation that would create and help finance a consortium called Aerotech. American textile manufacturers have created a consortium called Amtex that receives Government assistance. And the Big Three auto companies recently announced a Government-backed partnership to design a fuel-efficient "super car."
All that euphoria aside, however, Sematech's value is still a matter of much debate. Seven years and $1.4 billion into the Sematech experiment, industry experts and leaders still disagree over how much the consortium really had to do with the industry's recovery and whether it should continue to receive Federal financing.
There are no clear answers to these questions. But as an experiment in industrial policy without precedent in the United States, Sematech has produced valuable lessons:
* It has shown that the Government should leave the management of such a consortium to the industry. By contrast, two Government-led efforts were disappointments.
* It has offered proof that, particularly in its early stages, a consortium needs a leader with a lot of credibility in the industry.
* It has not produced leaps in semiconductor-manufacturing technology. But it has helped improve existing equipment. And one way it has accomplished this is merely to force the chip manufacturers to sit down with their equipment suppliers.
* It has learned the hard way that a consortium should avoid throwing money at a troubled company, even an important supplier.
Sematech was born of desperation, the brainchild of archrivals in the semiconductor industry who saw a need to work together to recapture a market being lost to Japan.
Saving the semiconductor industry actually meant saving the equipment suppliers, the small companies that make the machines that make semiconductors. They too had once dominated the world market, but by the 1980's they were producing equipment that was far less reliable than Japanese counterparts. A further weakening of the American equipment industry would increase the chip makers' dependence on Japanese equipment, which Japan routinely held from the open market for as long as a year. If the chip industry faltered as a result, it would weaken the nation's entire electronics industry.
Sematech, based in Austin, was to be a manufacturing test bed aimed at improving the quality of American equipment.
Some in the Reagan Administration objected. But the Defense Department, concerned about its growing dependence on foreign-supplied components for advanced weaponry, supported the consortium. In 1987, Congress agreed to pay $100 million a year for Sematech, with the 14 consortium members, all semiconductor manufacturers, to contribute the same. The money would go toward building and running a chip plant, providing research grants to equipment suppliers and buying their equipment for testing.
ONE of the first departures from the traditional mold of the Government-sponsored consortium was the chip industry's insistence on management autonomy. Two Government-led efforts -- President Jimmy Carter's attempt to develop alternatives to petroleum with the Synthetic Fuels Corporation and the Pentagon's billion-dollar quest for superchips -- had both been widely viewed as unsuccessful. "Sematech is a much more sophisticated and useful model," said Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico. "We've kept industry in the management role, and we've made doubly sure they are committed by requiring cost-sharing."
A second early lesson for Sematech was that a consortium benefits from having a champion with a great deal of credibility in the industry. For a year after it was created, Sematech floundered for lack of such a person. Then, in 1988, Robert Noyce, co-inventor of the integrated circuit, agreed to run Sematech. Hundreds of engineers who had dismissed the venture as a fringe experiment jumped at the chance to work for him.
But even with Dr. Noyce as the glue, the consortium's members were hard to hold together. Cultural differences sometimes seemed insurmountable among the 250 people assigned to work at Sematech by their companies (450 others are permanent Sematech employees). I.B.M. employees, the "White Shirts," were put off by the more informal Californians from Advanced Micro Devices. A.T.& T. people were conspicuous for their secretiveness and reluctance to speak up. People from Intel were too blunt.
Finally, Dr. Noyce called in Bill Daniels, a meetings specialist from Mill Valley, Calif. Mr. Daniels employed psychological tactics to chip away at the rancor. For instance, he frequently reminded everyone that they were engaged in the economic equivalent of war against a common enemy: Japan. The point is driven home by Sematech's headquarters building here, which rivals a United States Olympic Team training camp in its decor of red, white and blue and its photos of a chip with an American flag superimposed.
Slowly, attitudes changed. The disparate work force began to talk, to share information.
After Dr. Noyce died of a heart attack in 1990, the Sematech board recruited Dr. Spencer, the chief technical officer at Xerox. Dr. Spencer, now 63, took over at a tough time. The Bush Administration was even more hostile toward industrial policy than the Reagan Administration had been, regularly trying to cut off Sematech's financing. Three of the 14 member companies quit.
But the increased communication that Dr. Noyce and his meetings consultant had encouraged produced something significant. Sematech members gradually realized that the biggest problem with manufacturing was the way the chip companies had treated their equipment suppliers. "The semiconductor industry looked at the equipment industry like used-car salesmen," said G. Dan Hutcheson, president of VLSI Research Inc., in San Jose, Calif. "The way it usually worked was that a chip maker would pit two equipment vendors against each other. So they'd get the prices down, but there was no incentive to produce reliable equipment."
By inviting in the equipment manufacturers, Sematech provided a place for engineers from both sides to discuss their needs. William Elder, chief executive of Genus Inc., a Sunnyvale, Calif., manufacturer of machines that deposit chemicals onto a chip, added that Sematech's testing plant here provides a common ground for measuring a machine's performance and establishing benchmarks.
The reliability of Mr. Elder's equipment has improved, as has that of other equipment suppliers. And the United States has increased its market share in both equipment and semiconductors.
But better communication did not prevent Sematech's most glaring misstep.
In 1989, Sematech began to pour millions of dollars into improving machines made by the GCA Corporation, a small firm in Andover, Mass., which pioneered the part of the chip-making process in which the pattern of circuitry is burned onto chips. In the 1970's and early 1980's, GCA held most of the world's market for this equipment, known as steppers. But GCA's steppers were eclipsed by superior machines from Nikon and Canon.
GCA did improve its steppers, but Sematech's member companies declared the equipment too late to the market and stayed with Japanese machines. Last May, GCA's parent, General Signal, closed the GCA plant. Analysts estimate Sematech's investment in the failed bailout at $75 million.
GCA provided a conspicuous lesson in the wrongheadedness of throwing money at an ailing, poorly managed equipment company, particularly when there is no support from potential customers. Some of Sematech's critics would go further. They say Sematech's insistence on saving American companies in an increasingly global business is the fundamental problem with Sematech.
"IT was a classic mistake in industrial policy," said George Gilder, who has written on the semiconductor industry. Mr. Gilder said that instead of trying to catch up with old technology, Sematech should have invested its money in companies working on the next generation of steppers.
Determining how much Sematech had to do with the recovery of the American chip industry is not easy. Many other factors played a role. Under a 1986 agreement with Japan, the share of chips sold in Japan by foreign companies has risen from 8 percent to about 19 percent.
THE downturn in the Japanese economy is another reason. Japan is selling fewer consumer electronics products, and therefore fewer chips. Also, American chip companies have made some smart moves. "The Democrats are holding Sematech up as an example of something going right," said Representative Robert S. Walker, Republican of Pennsylvania. "But I don't think that reflects what really happened. We made marginal improvements in our ability to manufacture chips. But in reality it was the aggressive entrepreneurial companies that regained market share."
Others are more generous.
"My sense is there's been a net benefit from the Sematech program," said Daniel L. Klesken, an analyst at Robertson Stephens & Company in San Francisco. "It's increasingly important to have a well thought out set of requirements in order to build the next generation of equipment. Sematech has provided a consistent platform."
The most difficult part of Government support for one industry may be knowing when to stop. "If the industry maintains parity with the Japanese and if it continues to be well positioned in the world market, the U.S. should reduce or eliminate support to Sematech," said Michael Borrus, an industry expert at the University of California.
But Robert W. Galvin, chairman of the executive committee of Motorola Inc. and the Sematech board, defends continued Government support for Sematech. "Here's a case where the private sector has very effectively defined a problem and shown leadership," he said. "We can do it collectively but we'll need some help if we want to do it at the same speed as the Japanese."
With some friends in the White House for a change, what started as a five-year experiment could become an industry fixture. That serves as a final lesson to industries contemplating such a solution: like taxes, industry consortiums may be more difficult to end than begin.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William J. Spencer, chief of Sematech, with technicians scanning an electron microscope for defects in chips. (Zigy Kaluzny for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Regaining ther Lead in Semiconductors" shows sales for semiconductors and semiconductor equiptment from 1981 to 1993. (Source: VLSI Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SMI (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SEMATECH (SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY INSTITUTE) AIRBUS SAS (83%); ASK ASA (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEMATECH (SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY INSTITUTE)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); TEXAS, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CHIPS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ELECTRONICS (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TEXTILE MILLS (73%); FABRIC MILLS (73%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TEXTILE MFG (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); JOINT VENTURES (66%); 

PERSON: HAFNER, KATIE BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



161 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1731 words

HEADLINE: Profile: Laura S. Scher;
She Took One Look At the Age of Greed And Made a Quick Left

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
LAURA S. SCHER graduated from Harvard Business School near the top of her class in 1985, smack in the middle of the Decade of Greed.
Most of her classmates were seduced by the gaudy salaries and vainglorious life style of Wall Street. But not Ms. Scher, who was "put off by the idea of making so much money, by the insane hours, the New York life and the cultishness of it" and whose career goals included "wanting to do something I could believe in." 
 So she took an unpopular path in those "Bonfire of the Vanities" days and signed on as chief executive of what was then a brand new San Francisco-based company, Working Assets Funding Service, whose mission was to do well by doing good.
The company began by offering a donation-linked credit card, thought to be the first of many that followed, and then added a similar long-distance telephone service, which has recently vaulted Working Assets Funding Service and its 34-year-old chief to success.
A spin-off of Working Assets Money Market Fund, although now a separate and thriving entity, Ms. Scher's company is based on the premise that generosity can be painless if it is linked to purchases people are already making and bills they regularly pay.
Thus holders of Working Assets credit cards "donate" a nickel on each purchase to a group of charities, all eco-leftist in outlook, and customers of Working Assets long distance give away 1 percent of each monthly bill, and more than that if they elect to round up their payment to the nearest $5 or $10.
The last two years have marked a breakthrough for Working Assets, which was recently named one of the 500 fastest-growing privately held companies in America by Inc. magazine. Revenue jumped from $2 million in 1991 to $15 million in 1992 and is expected to hit $35 million this year, the bulk of it from long distance, which has seen its subscriber list grow from 5,000 to 130,000.
While these figures hardly put Working Assets in the ranks of telecommunications and banking mega-companies, they are impressive, and a credit to Ms. Scher's ability to translate a simple idea into a complex operation.
"They have a clear mission, an effective game plan and have made more and more money," said Michael A. Levett, president of Businesses for Social Responsibility, a 15-month-old association of companies with similar interests. "They tapped in early to a growing movement to judge corporations by their reputation as well as their product. And there are a growing number of people -- enough to make real profits -- who are saying, 'This is the way we want to spend our money.' "
The reason for Working Assets' recent growth spurt is three-fold, said Ms. Scher, who lives in suburban Tiburon with her husband, Ian Altman, an employee-benefits consultant, and their 3-year-old daughter, Alison. The first is sociological: the changed climate of this decade, when many baby boomers have turned from hectic have-it-all consumers to more sober let's-give-some-of-it-back members of the community.
"We're doing well because of what the 90's are about," said Ms. Scher, seated in her office beneath a wall of posters from the charities that Working Assets supports -- including Planned Parenthood, the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, the Rainforest Action League and the Coalition of the Homeless.
THE other two reasons for Working Assets' newfound success are technical and prompted by sea changes in telecommunications, which allowed Working Assets long distance to switch from being a sales agent for Sprint to being a reseller.
In the first incarnation, from 1988 to late 1990, Working Assets got a tiny marketing fee, about equal to its 1 percent charitable donation. As a reseller, the company buys telephone time in bulk at a deep discount, sells it to its customers at competitive rates and pockets the difference. It also has a discount program similar to MCI's "family and friends" promotion that cuts 25 percent off the cost when one subscriber calls another.
Also, as a reseller, Working Assets controls its own billing and has created a customized document that Ms. Scher said is her company's greatest innovation. "No one else thinks of the bill as a product," said Ms. Scher. "They think of the bill as a transaction. This is the crux of our whole operation, and this is where we have fun."
The bill, produced and processed by EUR Data Center in Mechanicsburg, Pa., allows Working Assets long-distance customers to round up their bills, paying, say, $35 instead of the $32.56 owed. "It's like the penny jar next to the cash register," Ms. Scher said.
Padding the payment this way is not possible with the Working Assets Visa or Mastercards, because they are issued and billed through the Fleet Bank of New York. The only customization with these bills, which carry a 15.4 percent interest rate, are the inserts, among them instructions on how to avoid abusing credit cards. "We'd rather they had the card for 10 years than go bankrupt in two," Ms. Scher said.
The proceeds from the round-ups -- which are tax-deductible for customers -- of the telephone bills, an average of $50,000 a month, are usually added to the charitable pot, which is distributed at year's end to several dozen groups selected by a vote of Working Assets customers and winnowed down by the directors. Since its inception, Working Assets has donated $2.5 million, with $1 million of that raised last year.
Some bill round-ups have focused on specific issues, like one last summer to buy and retire pollution credits. Under the 1990 Clean Air Act, utilities that cut emissions of sulfur dioxide, a component of acid rain, below the federally mandated level can sell the remainder of their allowance. The Working Assets program bought $60,000 worth of credits and took them off the market. That worked out to 600,000 pounds of sulfur dioxide, which Ms. Scher said was "a drop in the bucket" but perhaps "a catalyst for other people to do the same."
The customized phone bill also allows Working Assets to promote timely causes and tell subscribers which corporate and political decision-makers to call or write to have their opinions heard. Those calls are free on the first Monday of each month and discounted the rest of the time.
Leaders contacted this year, at the rate of 25,000 calls and letters a month, include the chief executive of McDonald's (supporting veggie burgers), the chairman of the Federal Reserve (opposing red-lining), the head of the Environmental Protection Agency (opposing toxic-waste incinerators near schools) and the Governor of California (opposing proposals to penalize immigrants).
"Now we have a lobbying tool as opposed to just a fund-raising tool," Ms. Scher said.
Working Assets Funding Service was the brainchild of Peter Barnes, one founder of the Working Assets money market fund. Mr. Barnes was marketing vice president for the fund, which was founded in 1983, when he decided that a product or service linked to charitable donations might be a more popular way for consumers to back what they believe in because people spend more than they save and because many people lack the $1,000 needed to open a money market fund.
He hired Ms. Scher as chief executive of a fledgling company that would launch a donation-linked credit card and then figure out what other avenues to pursue. Then, in 1988, Working Assets Funding Service split from the parent company, eager to use its revenues to market its own products rather than the money market fund, which has about $250 million in assets. In 1991, the money fund was sold to Sophia Collier, founder of Soho Soda, who still uses the name under a licensing agreement with Ms. Scher's company.
"It makes sense for them to be separate," said Mr. Levett. "Their socially responsible component is all that blends them. They're really no more alike than Bear, Stearns and the Baby Bells."
BUT customers drawn to the company are not as a rule comparing prices. "People that would be joining aren't likely to be penny-pinchers," said Daniel Briere, president of TeleChoice, a New Jersey consulting firm.
Working Assets understands exactly who its target customers are. According to a recent survey, more than a quarter are from California and 10 percent from New York, 98 percent vote (most of them for Democrats), 7 of 10 are college-educated (more than a third have graduate degrees), and more of them listen to National Public Radio than watch television.
And the marketing strategy preaches to that choir. Working Assets long distance, for instance, bills itself as the only telephone company that is endorsed by Ralph Nader and Gloria Steinem, the only one to offer a free pint of Ben & Jerry's ice cream to new subscribers, the only one to print its bills on 100 percent post-consumer recycled paper with soy-based ink, the only one to plant 17 trees for each ton of paper used. And the only one with a woman as chief executive.
MS. SCHER, a native of Clifton, N.J., comes to the task naturally, in terms of both business and politics.
Her father owned a small chemical company that is now, after his death, run by her older brother, who says he would rather be rock climbing or cross-country skiing. Her mother is a professor of economics at Montclair State College in New Jersey and a former head of the economics department.
Ms. Scher describes her family, including a younger sister who is a family doctor in the rural reaches of Northern California, as "liberal and concerned" and recalls a childhood of licking stamps for local candidates and celebrating Earth Day on the banks of the Passaic River.
To the extent that she had an epiphany about her own career, Ms. Scher said, it came during recruiting season at Harvard Business School, when the best and brightest at the Wall Street firms came courting the star students.
"I would go to all these dinners with people who told me how much money they made," she said. "It didn't excite me at all."
Ms. Scher will not disclose her pay at Working Assets, a privately held 45-member company. In general, she said, lower-ranked employees make competitive wages while those at the upper echelons pay dearly for their career choice.
"What I earn is lower -- much, much lower -- than anyone at a comparable-sized company," she said. "But there's a lot of job satisfaction other than salary."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Laura Scher, head of Working Assets Funding Service, uses a "penny jar" approach to support liberal causes. Laura Scher with her husband, Ian Altman, and their daughter, Alison. (Photographs by Susan Spann for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: WORKING ASSETS FUNDING SERVICE WORKING ASSETS FUNDING SERVICE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORKING ASSETS FUNDING SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PHILANTHROPY PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); CHARITIES (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (66%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (62%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (52%); 

PERSON: GROSS, JANE; SCHER, LAURA; SCHER, LAURA (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



162 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 13; Page 10; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST NEW YORK;
After a Small Respite, Murders Soar in the 75th

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

 BODY:
On a recent chilly morning, Allan Bouser was keeping warm in his red Toyota Corolla parked at a curb near Alabama and Cozine Avenues when six gunshots rang out. Two bullets shattered the car's rear window and tore through Mr. Bouser's back and left arm. He died a couple of hours later. The motive is unknown, according to the police.
An hour and 15 minutes later, as the same chill hung in the air and not far away, Freddie Furpie was talking to his girlfriend at a pay phone on the corner of Sutter and Crescent Avenues when more gunfire rang out. 
 His voice disappeared as a single bullet ripped through his left shoulder and he fell to the ground mortally wounded. The receiver dangled from its cord above him as his girlfriend screamed his name. The motive is unknown, but he is thought to have been an unintended victim.
These were the 105th and 106th killings in East New York in the first 10 months of this year. The 75th Precinct, which encompasses East New York, leads the city in homicides, and investigators are bracing for a record year.
So far, the killings have surpassed last year's 92 homicides in the precinct.
In 1991, a record 115 people were killed in East New York; that record should fall in about a week, said Lieut. Kevin J. Perham. He said the precinct may even surpass the city record for a precinct, set in the 28th Precinct, in Harlem, in 1976, when 123 people were killed.
The shootings of Mr. Bouser and Mr. Furpie are apparently unrelated, said Lieutenant Perham, who heads the 75th Precinct's detective squad. The killings occurred on Tuesday. Mr. Bouser, 37, of 721 Monroe Street in Bedford-Stuyvesant, was shot at 6:15 A.M., and Mr. Furpie, 26, of 1140 Manor Avenue in Hunts Point, the Bronx, was shot at 7:30 A.M. They both died at 9:30 A.M. at Brookdale Hospital.
Asked why the number of killings in the precinct had risen again after falling considerably last year, the police said they had few answers beyond the thriving drug trade in this community pockmarked by urban decay, unemployment and crowded, ramshackle homes, apartments and classrooms.
"There are a lot of legitimate people here," Lieutenant Perham said. "There are a lot of people who live in nice homes, get up and go to work and school. And there are a lot who stand on corners and sell drugs. The competition for these corners and customers just dictates that people will be shooting each other."
Lieutenant Perham, whose voice dripped with frustration, said it's almost impossible to prevent murders. But, he added, the police try to combat the conditions that lead to homicides, like prostitution and drug dealing.
Six months ago, when the crime rate began to soar in the 75th Precinct, Community Board 5 formed a team to work with the precinct to fight the problem, said Earl Williams, chairman of the board. They meet to talk about problem areas and what can be done. The police assign more officers or squads like Special Narcotics Units to hot spots of prostitution or drug dealing.
Does it help? "It's like proving a negative," Lieutenant Perham said. "How do you know that that prevents homicides?"
Mr. Williams said: "Lord knows we have enough youth programs and everything going on. We're searching hard to find answers." L.H.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Crime Report: 75TH Precinct" lists homicide statistics for East New York for the first 10 months of each year from '88 to '93 (Source: New York Police Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; EAST NEW YORK (NYC) UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; POLICE SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); HOMICIDE (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); MURDER (88%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); FIREARMS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (65%); 

PERSON: HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



163 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 13; Page 12; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: PORT MORRIS/HUNTS POINT;
Resurrecting A Rail Yard: A New Hitch

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
For decades, the Harlem River Rail Yard has been abandoned, a forlorn stretch of rickety tracks in Port Morris that once teemed with freight cars transporting coal, lumber and other cargo. A proposal to resurrect the yard would create jobs and revitalize the sagging neighborhood, supporters say. Critics of the plan say it doesn't go far enough to reduce dependence on trucks.
The State Department of Transportation expects to release its final environmental study next month on a plan to convert 28 acres of the sprawling rail yard into a revitalized hub for transporting freight. 
 If the project is deemed environmentally sound, it will take a major step toward construction. But critics, including merchants, residents and others, say the $250 million project is not the best use of one of the last remaining rail yards in a city that largely relies on trucks for shipping goods. The nearest active rail yards for freight are in New Jersey.
The debate is the latest hitch in the state's effort to reactivate the 98 acres on the waterfront near Yankee Stadium. In the early 1980's, the state considered reactivating 70 acres of the rail yard, but the plan was stalled by budget constraints.
Whatever happens, the dilapidated landscape of Port Morris will probably be changed forever.
Under the latest proposal, at least 40 acres have been set aside for developers who would rely on rail service. Supporters, including planners with the Bronx Borough President's office, say that this aspect would insure the creation of new jobs. The state has signed a 99-year lease with a private developer, the Harlem River Yard Venture Corporation, to carry out the project.
"We want to get the most of that yard as we possibly could get out of it," said Paul Pastecki, the supervisor for the project coordinating section of the State Commercial Transportation Division.
Opponents say that the plan for the yard is not extensive enough to reduce the city's dependency on trucks. They dismiss as unproved the state's contention that the new yard could handle 150,000 trucks a year.
"If we start giving away parts of the rail yard now, there won't be any left when it becomes clear how important it will be for the city in the future," said Alisa Eilenberg, president of the Riverdale Committee for Clean Air, which opposes the plan. "We need to take polluting vehicles off our roads as much as possible."
Nick Unger, the political director for New York's Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union, said that the plan is shortsighted because it surrenders property that could be used to expand the transportation network.
"It's penny-foolish and pound-foolish," he said. "Cutting out the potential for this kind of transportation kills the potential for economic development in New York."
But Mr. Pastecki said many questions have been raised by a preliminary study that was released this summer, including a question about the capacity of the proposed freight transfer point, where trucks would deliver cargoes for transfer to trains.
Mr. Pastecki said the study to be released next month would address concerns about capacity. RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

GRAPHIC: Photo: The State Department of Transportation may convert 28 acres of the Harlem River Rail Yard into a revitalized hub for transporting freight. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times)
 
Map of Harlem River Rail Yard

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (NYS)

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (NYS)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PORT MORRIS (NYC); BRONX (NYC); SOUTH BRONX (NYC); NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; FREIGHT TRAINS (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); BUDGETS (74%); GARMENT WORKERS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (71%); FACTORY WORKERS (62%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



164 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 13; Page 23; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: Price Rises Explain Low Yankee Attendance

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I wonder if all the commentators who talk about the area around Yankee Stadium as unsafe actually buy tickets to see the games. If they did, they would know that the immediate neighborhood is fine. The real reason for declining attendance in the last few years is the price of tickets. That includes general admission, up from $8 in 1989 to $10.50 (which is to say from a price competitive with a movie to one that isn't), and backless bleacher seats, up from $4.50 to $6.50. 
 Most of us would say that anyone raising prices in an economic slump is either a fool or a schemer. The scheme here is using self-induced lower attendance as a rationale for deserving public funds.
 
RICHARD KOSTELANETZ
Manhattan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; PRICES; YANKEE STADIUM (NYC) TICKET SALES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL (88%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); 

PERSON: KOSTELANETZ, RICHARD

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



165 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 13; Page 23; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Poverty Is No Excuse, But It Doesn't Help

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In his Oct. 10 essay, "Alibis for Educational Failure," Michael Meyers criticized the new school performance scale that "allows for social and economic differences among students' families." According to Mr. Meyers, looking at differences among students' families provides a way of "letting teachers off the hook."
Indeed, there is ample evidence to support Mr. Meyers's view that higher teacher expectations and changed learning environments produce improved student outcomes. But there is also ample evidence that other variables have considerable impact. The amount spent per student is just one of these variables; it is reflected in leaky roofs and peeling paint versus well-maintained and cheery buildings, in class size or teacher-student ratio, in availability of guidance counselors and social workers, and in access to computers and books. 
 Both by making direct contributions to their children's schools and by wielding the political power to divert resources inequitably toward these schools, families of higher social and economic status increase the likelihood that their children's schools will be successful in educating whichever children attend them.
Of course, poor children can be educated, and their poverty should not be used as an excuse. But as a psychologist who has worked in the schools, I recognize the need for greater resources than our society has been willing to supply for children who are poorly motivated, angry about lack of nurturing and security, neurologically damaged from malnutrition, ingestion of lead or prenatal drug exposure. Teacher-bashing is an easy but incorrect and fundamentally lazy explanation that will not solve the problem.
 
NORMA J. HART
Manhattan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; URBAN AREAS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); ALIBI (78%); STUDENT TEACHER RATIO (78%); CHILD POVERTY (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); MALNUTRITION (66%); 

PERSON: HART, NORMA J

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



166 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION: Switching Brands;
Cranky Voters Fire Everyone In Sight

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT

 BODY:
DAVID STEWART, a professor of marketing at the University of Southern California and an expert on consumer behavior, compares voting to shopping for something you don't particularly want to buy, like toilet paper. "Where customer satisfaction is not high, you see a lot of switching," he said. "I'll buy one I haven't tried recently."
He is not alone in thinking that way. In a world without strong party or ideological identifications, voters do look increasingly like shoppers in the American marketplace. They become isolated decision-makers whose choices depend essentially on the information and attitudes they pick up from the mass media, especially television. 
 Consumers are known to be readily manipulated -- something that advertisers and professional political consultants bank on. And certainly campaigns these days look a lot like product roll-outs.
But, as they will tell you at Macy's the day after Christmas, there is a dark side to every shopper. In a world where advertising mobilizes desire, commitments are almost inevitably short-lived.
And that might explain what happened this last Tuesday just as well as the theory, enthusiastically promoted by Republicans, that President Clinton had been placed on the scale and found wanting. Americans were disappointed with his meager achievements, his liberal agenda, his sweeping vision for health care security. And so, the theory went, they booted their local Democratic mayors and governors out of office.
But above all, Americans seemed to be just plain impatient. Two records were set on Tuesday, both for brevity. David N. Dinkins became the first black mayor of a major city who failed to win his first re-election bid. Jim Florio became the first New Jersey Governor to be defeated for a second term in a general election.
Moreover, in New York City and in the state of Maine, voters opted to institutionalize impermanence by imposing term limits on a variety of officeholders. In New Jersey, they went one step further, voting themselves the right to recall any elected official in the state after a year.
 
A Time to Pay Up
 This time around, it may be President Clinton and his party who are paying the price of voter restlessness. But, arguably, it is only 12 months since they benefited from exactly the same trend.
Last November, when restive voters sent George Bush back to Texas, they created the largest contingent of living former Presidents since 1861, enough to field an eminent, if somewhat out-of-breath, basketball team.
"If you want to know what happened on Tuesday," said Pat Caddell, a political consultant, "just go back to 1992."
To be sure, there were also local factors at work that had a determining impact in all the major races. In New York, where Mayor Dinkins won practically all of the black votes and Rudolph W. Giuliani took three-quarters of the white vote, race was clearly more at issue than national politics. So, for that matter, were crime and homelessness and dangerous schools, problems that could make Mr. Giuliani wonder if the people will get tired of him even before he takes office.
In New Jersey, Mr. Florio paid for pushing through a $2.8 billion tax increase and doing so, in the eyes of many New Jerseyans, with infuriating arrogance. (Even so, he came within two percentage points of winning re-election against the Republican Christine Todd Whitman, who had given Senator Bill Bradley a big scare in his last re-election campaign.)
And in Virginia, George F. Allen, a conservative Republican, defeated former state Attorney General Mary Sue Terry. She suffered from the contagious unpopularity of the state's two leading Democratic officials, Gov. L. Douglas Wilder and Senator Charles S. Robb, who have spent most of the last few years feuding with each other. It didn't help that, after 12 years of Democratic rule, the state's once-robust economy is in a funk.
 
Someone to Count On
 The results clearly fit within a larger pattern that political scientists have been plotting for the last few years. Americans, who had been historically indulgent toward incumbents, have become uncreasingly unwilling to give them the benefit of the doubt -- or second terms. This is especially true for executives in high-visibility jobs like mayor, governor or President.
"There are fewer people now who you can count on," said Cliff Zukin, a professor at the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University. "More people are susceptible to the impulse, 'I don't like what I have, let's change.' "
There used to be some powerful institutions working against this impulse. The party machine, for example, fostered long-term commitments and could be counted on to deliver large blocks of votes. The same was true of unions.
Even the Soviet Union helped in its own way. The existence of a Red Menace lent debates in national politics, and even to a certain extent those in local politics, an underpinning of ideology. (Consider the fight over the Staten Island home port, which aroused intense local opposition, in part because of fears that Navy ships berthed there would carry nuclear weapons.)
"Now, no one pays attention to parties, and the cold war has ended," said Darrell West, a professor of political science at Brown University. "There are no paradigms to replace that, and so our decisions are more short-term in nature."
Americans say that one of the main reasons they are so dissatisfied with their government is that politicians have become increasingly self-centered. In polls and interviews, they complain that their elected officials are more occupied with their own plans for re-election than with the public interest.
Proponents of term limits cite this as one of their principal motivations; maybe if politicians knew they were going to have to leave, they say, they would be willing to take some risks. It's hard to believe, though, that last week's electoral turnover will make politicians any less risk-averse.
Many politicians, particularly many White House officials, were watching the New Jersey election as a sign of whether it was possible in these recessionary times to raise taxes and live to see another inauguration. The lesson they may have taken from Mr. Florio's fate is that it is not.
At the same time, the results in New York City suggest that caution has its dangers, too.
Mr. Dinkins was perceived as a kindly, but basically ineffectual, mayor. Mr. Giuliani promised an administration that would put more drug dealers in jail and deal more aggressively with the problem of the homeless. In a city that seems on the edge of unraveling, where "quality of life" means such basics as being able to walk on clean streets and being free of strangers who insist on washing your windshield, that helped him win the election.
Some analysts say that incumbents will have a hard time for as long as there are hard times. With government resources so scarce, candidates are bound to make promises that, once in office, they find they can't keep.
And so they, in turn, will be replaced by different politicians, who also don't keep their promises. Sam Popkin, a professor of political science at the University of California at San Diego, predicts "musical chairs."
"We'll play musical chairs at this level," he said, "until someone comes up with an economic upturn."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A voter signing in at the Jewish Home for the Aged in Manhattan last Tuesday. (Carrie Boretz for The New York Times) (pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); MAYORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); LIBERALISM (71%); TERM LIMITS (71%); CHRISTMAS (71%); BASKETBALL (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KOLBERT, ELIZABETH BILL CLINTON (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



167 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Debris of Past Failures Impedes Poverty Policy

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

 BODY:
PRESIDENT CLINTON may be presiding over the first activist government with doubts about activist government.
The Old Executive Office Building is filled with policy planners working overtime. They are plotting revolutions in health care and welfare, overhauling job-training and child care programs and mapping the "empowerment zones" meant to revive cities. 
 But this is not an unschooled crowd. Some of the Clinton planners are scholars who have spent decades studying the unintended effects of social reform. They embrace government, but they realize that social programs often cost more and do less than intended -- and that government itself can be the enemy.
And nowhere does the need for government action and the distrust of it collide more sharply than in anti-poverty policy. The abiding national assumption is that everything has been tried and nothing has worked.
Today one in four American children live in the cramped, mean place called "beneath the poverty line." For a mother with two children, that's $11,300.
But what politician would dare call for another war on poverty? In the millions of words uttered on the topic, none linger more convincingly in the public mind that Ronald Reagan's perfect-pitch quip: we fought a war on poverty, "and poverty won."
Is it true? Is poverty policy a god that failed?
The answers begin in the reams of studies documenting disappointments in housing, welfare, job training, education and other programs. Although the failures have been real, they have also been judged in a harsh light. (After all, the Pentagon produced the $435 hammer without discrediting the very notion of defense policy.)
 
A Grudge About Race
 The Government's defenders argue that the country has forgotten its successes, exaggerated its failures and blamed poverty programs for problems beyond their control -- most notably the wage stagnation and family breakdown that have plagued other countries, too.
And as Professor Hugh Heclo of George Mason University has argued, the grudge against poverty programs is sometimes a grudge about the racial minorities who use them disproportionately, one that is exploited by politicians. "Today, as always, it remains politically easier to engender resentment against the weak than against the powerful," he has written.
In retrospect, the confidence espoused by the early antipoverty theorists seems impossibly innocent. As late as 1971, Robert Lampman, one of the theorists who worked for Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, was still predicting poverty's demise by 1980.
The percentage of Americans living in poverty did steadily decline, to 11 percent in 1973 from 23 percent in 1959. Then oil shocks and stagflation arrived, and the poverty rate has never again been so low. It is now 14.5 percent.
Other indices of well-being also plummeted. Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, then a Labor Department official, found it shocking in 1965 that a quarter of the nation's black children were born to single women. Now a quarter of all American children are born to single women. And the figure for blacks has risen to two-thirds. Almost three-quarters of black children spend at least a year on welfare before age 18.
And government programs sometimes seem only to make things worse. New York City officials discovered as much when they began moving homeless people to the head of the long lines awaiting public housing. The result, researchers found, was that more and more people began declaring themselves homeless.
The Federal Job Training Partnership Act tried to boost the earnings of young men who had dropped out of school. Last year, a major study announced the results: those enrolled in the program earned 8 percent less than those who were given no training.
Nathan Glazer, the Harvard professor who is one the nation's leading social policy skeptics, said the disappointing results have become the norm. "When we try to get into such complex issues as family behavior or crime or school achievement, government just hasn't been very good," he said.
Partly, he argues, that is because decisions like whether to work or study, have children or marry are complex ones beyond the reach of social workers. And government programs, he says, are difficult to change, since interest groups inevitably grow up around them.
Defenses of poverty policy generally fall into three categories. One argument is that the country fails to appreciate its successes. The Social Security system is the favorite example. After a series of benefit increases, the poverty rate among the elderly dropped from 29 percent in 1965 to just 13 percent last year. That is a success, but no politician has stood up and crowed, "We fought a war on poverty -- and we won!"
 
Beyond Policy's Reach
 A second argument is that the financing of the war on poverty never kept pace with its rhetoric -- the battle was never really fought. At its height in 1969, the Office of Economic Opportunity, the era's main anti-poverty agency, never spent more than $2 billion a year.
Today total housing, welfare and health care expenditures for poor people total in the hundreds of billions. But, as Gary Burtless of the Brookings Institution has written, "many of the most costly programs do not even aim to reduce poverty." They aim to cushion its effects by giving people housing, health care and nutritional assistance. Judged on those terms, he argues, they more or less succeed.
And a third defense of poverty policy is that it has been thwarted by events largely beyond its control. The rise in single-parent families -- a phenomenon that is occurring across the industrialized world -- accounts for a large part of the nation's poverty problem.
So does the state of the general economy, clearly the most important factor in the fight against poverty. Anti-poverty initiatives have had to contend with two decades of economic shifts that have depressed wages of workers with few or no skills.
"Part of the reason that people perceive that anti-poverty policy doesn't work is that the policy has been swimming upstream," said Robert Haveman, an economist at the University of Wisconsin. "The private sector has been throwing low-skilled people out of jobs they've held for a long time."
The White House understands both the raw needs on the street and the legacy of past social policy failures. Some of its proposals stem from the confidence of success, while others come from the fear of doing nothing at all.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Job Corps was one of many social programs created during Lyndon B. Johnson's "War on Poverty" in the 1960's. (Ken Regan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: JOB CORPS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOB CORPS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ANTIPOVERTY PROGRAMS; LAW AND LEGISLATION POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (93%); CHILDREN (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OVERTIME (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); POVERTY RATES (88%); POLITICS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); CHILD CARE (72%); RACE & RACISM (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



168 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 3; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD: Urger to Splurge;
Mexico's Hunger for U.S. Goods Is Helping to Sell the Trade Pact

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY

 BODY:
PITCHMEN for the North American Free Trade Agreement always focus on the consumer paradise presented by Mexico's young and growing population: 85 million people, more than half of them under 25 years old, with slowly rising wages but a seemingly insatiable appetite for things made in the U.S.A.
In fact, trade with Mexico already is big business. Mexico imports more than $42 billion in goods and services from the United States, more than three times what it was in 1986, when the Government began lowering tariffs on imports so that some American goods could compete with their less desirable Mexican imitations. Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen, an old Mexico hand, says that with Nafta, trade with Mexico will grow by another $10 billion in three years. 
 No doubt the argument that Mexico offers vast trade opportunities will be made Tuesday night as Vice President Al Gore presents the Clinton Administration's case for the accord in a televised debate with Ross Perot, Nafta's chief critic. President Clinton, who last week escalated his campaign for approval of the agreement in the face of its discouraging prospects in a scheduled vote in the House a week from Wednesday, is working hard to convince Congress that rising trade with Mexico will more than make up for the American jobs that could be lost because of lower wages south of the border.
For those already involved in the Mexican market, the demand for American products is obvious. Mexicans spent $450 per capita on American goods in 1992, more than consumers in Japan or European countries. The Marlboro man still gallops headlong across television screens here. Wal-Mart recently opened a megacenter in a working-class neighborhood in Mexico City, and J.C. Penney and Kmart will be here soon too. Compact disks can now be bought at Tower Records, mufflers can be replaced at Midas and, at select supermarkets, shoppers can take advantage of promotions offering a stack of fresh corn tortillas free with the purchase of Hostess hamburger rolls.
But although more than 70 percent of everything Mexico imports comes from the United States, not everything American sells. And there is evidence that Mexican consumers could turn fickle once the novelty of widely available American goods wears off. More problematic for American exporters, traditional market research has rarely been able to crack the intricacies of Mexico, where much income is unreported and households routinely cover several generations.
"Even the best statistician would have the hardest time here," said Juan Suberville, general director of two Kmart stores set to open on Mexico City's outskirts next spring. "Mostly, you work on gut feelings."
Taco Bell found out the hard way. Intent on grabbing a niche in Mexico, the Pepsico subsidiary conducted market research that suggested that its fast-food expertise and consistent product could overcome the coals-to-Newcastle disadvantages of trying to sell American tacos here. It opened a stand in a Mexico City parking lot last year and planned 25 more in a year.
 
Opening the Doors
 But only three others ever opened, and none is a runaway success. Company officials say their mistake was to focus too much on Mexican manners, changing their menu and style to be more authentically Mexican. It turned out that what Mexicans wanted was authentically American tacos served in a clean restaurant away from traffic fumes.
The Taco Bell experience is one of many indicators that what Mexicans want most is what they couldn't buy before. When the country's economy was closed to most American goods, Mexicans couldn't buy the Raisinettes or Frosted Flakes they saw on imported television programs and in movies -- only weak imitations.
Under President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, Mexico has been intent on dismantling its import-substitution economy and opening its markets. The doors were cracked ajar in the mid-1980's by lowered tariffs on imported goods. Nafta, which would end tariffs and other trade barriers among the United States, Canada and Mexico over 15 years, would complete the opening of Mexico's economy to the north.
Tariffs act as taxes, artificially pushing up prices. Reduce them, as happened in the 1980's, and suddenly imports start showing up on store shelves. At first, Mexicans couldn't get their fill of imported products like Coca-Cola in cans, which until then had been unavailable. But when the novelty died down, people realized they were paying two and three times what it cost for a Mexican-made Coke, and the American-made version didn't even taste as good. North of the border Coca-Cola is made with corn syrup, while Mexican Coke uses sugar, and Mexicans say they can taste the difference.
"Mexicans are willing to try something new," said Francisco Sanchez-Loaeza, president of Panamerican Beverages, the largest Coca-Cola bottler outside the United States. "But they are becoming more and more demanding."
Coca-Cola was one of a limited number of American products available even when the Mexican economy was closed. Mexicans drink more soda than any other people except those in the United States, in part because drinking water here is so risky. Coca-Cola controls 55 percent of the market and, with Government restrictions lifted, is flooding the market with previously unavailable flavors and bottle sizes, including non-returnable two-liter monsters.
 
Changing Habits
 A big question is how much and how quickly Mexicans will change their shopping habits. Most Mexicans still shop at small stores and street stands -- not surprising in a country where street vending has been well established since Aztec times. They go to the store on average eight times a week, while shoppers in the United States go twice. Tortillas, the Mexican staple, are a big factor, because fresh tortillas, made without preservatives, are considered inedible after a day.
But habits are changing. Enrique Legoretta, commercial director in Mexico City for the A.C. Nielsen market-research concern, said that once Mexican consumers glimpse the new consumer world, small stores just don't hold their attention any more. In some ways, Mexicans have shown themselves willing to change their whole concept of shopping. The Price Club has opened two successful stores in Mexico City that are about as different from the street-corner mom-and-pop as can be. The stores are warehouses, selling institutional-size cans of peaches and rolls of toilet paper by the dozen. A typical trip requires at least $100 and a car to haul the booty home. With an average income of anywhere from $3,000 to $43,000 a year, and many families without cars, Mexico seems an unlikely fit for the Price Club.
But Robert Price, the chairman of the company, said he has done well by targeting the top 10 to 15 percent of Mexicans, those with cars and salaries above $43,000 a year. "We've found that Mexicans at that level are more committed to consumerism than Americans," he said. He said if the trade accord passes, fully a quarter of all Mexicans will wind up in the high-income bracket.
Retailers and free trade supporters are also betting on a similar increase in buying power. They know by experience that the sheen of American products could wear off, but say a trade accord ending tariffs, and therefore lowering consumer prices, would mean that they could successfully compete with domestic products.
For now, imports are still getting a boost from the curiosity built up over so many years of living right alongside the biggest marketplace in the world without being able to fully participate in it.
That was what brought Alicia and Esperanza Rendon Huerta to the new Wal-Mart in Mexico City a recent afternoon. The sisters, both in their 60's, spent more than 500 pesos, almost $200, on many things they admitted they didn't really need, including cookies, napkins and several two-liter bottles of Coke.
"We wanted to see what it was like," they said.
No one really knows whether Nafta would make Mexican wages rise or change what Mexicans buy. But it seems certain that markets on both sides of the Rio Grande are coming together. The new Wal-Mart sells tequilla glasses made in the United States and Superman pajamas made in Mexico. At last count, salsa was outselling catsup in the United States. And Wonder Bread is baking "authentic" soft tortillas.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Upwardly mobile" -- On weekends at a Mexico City shopping center, Antonio Castruita and his sons race $1,000 U.S.-made model cars and eat McDonald's hamburgers. (Damian Dovarganes for The New York Times) (pg. 1)
 
Chart: "What People Think They Need" shows percentage of Mexicans, Americans, and Canadians saying that given items are necessities. (The Mexican figures are from a survey of 400 Mexico City residents conducted in June. The U.S. figures are from a survey of 1,996 people interviewed nationwide in December. The Canadian figures are from a survey of 400 Toronto residents interviewed in June.) (pg. 1)
 
Graphs: "What People Have" shows percentage of Mexican, American, and Canadian households with given items. (Source: In-person surveys conducted by Roper Starch Worldwide and INRA [Americas]) (pg. 5)
 
Chart: "Gore vs. Perot: The Weigh-in" gives "vital statistics" for the "sluggers" in the debate Tuesday night over the North American Free Trade Agreement on "Larry King Live." (pg. 5)
 
 

 


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (50%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (77%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (77%); 

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC (50%); TACO BELL CORP (50%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; UNITED STATES MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (77%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (77%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; TREATIES; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); SALES PROMOTIONS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXHAUST REPAIR SHOPS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); POLITICAL DEBATES (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); MUSIC STORES (62%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY AL GORE (71%); BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



169 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 4; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION: Gauging a 'Cold Wind' in the Work Force;
How the Job Count Is Off

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
THE Labor Department issued its monthly report on the health of the nation's labor force on Friday, but for millions of Americans, the unemployment rate has lost its meaning as a gauge of their well-being. For them, it will take some measure not yet invented to accurately capture their experiences.
By the Labor Department's standard, a Harvard graduate who once owned a business and now sells diet formula door-to-door is employed, not unemployed. So is a technician forced out of I.B.M. and now stacking shopping carts. The unemployment rate has declined to 6.8 percent in October from 7.8 percent in June 1992, but the sheer fact of holding a job does not mean, as it once did, that a jobholder feels safely ensconced in the economy. 
 "We fasten on the unemployment rate as a guide to the economy," said James Hechtman, a University of Chicago labor economist. "But the fact is that it was never all that satisfactory, and now it is much less so."
Measuring the labor force today has become similar to measuring the windchill factor in weather reporting. The unemployment rate -- up one tenth of a point since September -- is the "temperature" on a windless day. And the buffeting that people are taking in lost job status, in lost income and damage to self-confidence represents a stiff, cold wind. Various efforts are now being made to clock this rising wind. Even the Labor Department notes its existence.
"We are telling people who ask that the unemployment rate should not be viewed as a hardship measure," said John E. Bregger, an economist in the Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics. "The unemployment rate is only what it pretends to be: the proportion of the labor force out of work and hunting for jobs."
While times have changed, the Labor Department's statistical tools haven't. The monthly survey of 60,000 households that the department uses to determine the unemployment rate dates back to the 1940's, when jobholders generally enjoyed more security than they do today, and wages for most people went up each year by more than inflation, instead of failing to do so -- the case today. In such a world, the questions asked by the interviewer were easy to answer, and much more representative of actual conditions.
If people said that, during the week before the survey, they had worked for a company or for the Government or for themselves, as doctors, plumbers and the like, then the interviewer put them down as jobholders. Or they told the interviewer that they had not held a job the previous week, but had looked for one. That qualified them as unemployed. And in those days, a person without a job looked for work and usually found it.
There was not, as there is today, a huge contingent of men in their 40's and 50's who have given up. Rather than hunt futilely for work or accept a pay cut, they declare themselves retired. That makes them, in the household survey, neither employed nor unemployed. What's more, in earlier days, the unemployed were often blue-collar workers on temporary layoff. This year, for the first time, the white-collar unemployed -- mostly permanent job losers -- outnumber the blue-collar jobless.
Finally, the survey was not designed for the likes of John Strong and Thomas A. Stalker, jobholders whose declining incomes dampen the economy.
Mr. Strong, 52, had worked at I.B.M. for 16 years, his last post bringing him $32,000 a year as a senior technician. Rather than wait to be laid off, Mr. Strong said, he took a buyout in 1992 -- four years short of qualifying for a pension. He'll still get the early-retirement pension at age 55, but until then he needs income. So in August, he rejoined the ranks of the employed. He earns less than $13,000 a year at the new Wal-Mart store in Fishkill, N.Y., greeting customers and stacking shopping carts.
Mr. Stalker, Harvard class of 1958, took over the family lumber and flooring business near Boston. It folded in 1989. Since then, he has been variously unemployed, a jobholder and out of the labor force.
"If the Labor Department had asked me a week ago about my status, I would have said that I was out of work and job-hunting," Mr. Stalker said, listing the two criteria for unemployment. "But a fellow has just brought me some of his inventory of diet formula, which I am selling, and now I consider myself self-employed."
Attempting to measure what the Labor Department misses, James Medoff, a Harvard labor economist, has created an index that covers incomes as well as jobs -- not unlike the late Arthur Okun's "misery index," a measure of the economy based on inflation and unemployment. The Labor Research Association, supported by unions, has devised an index that includes things like duration of unemployment (lengthening lately) and help-wanted ads (fewer per unemployed worker than in the 1980's). And the University of Michigan's Consumer Research Center is trying to better measure attitudes about jobs.
Even the Labor Department compiles a quarterly index that takes into account part-time workers as well as people too discouraged to look for jobs. The result is an unemployment rate of 10.2 percent -- well above the publicized monthly rate.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (75%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (75%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR FORCE (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); WEATHER (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



170 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD: The U.N. and Problem Nations

BYLINE: By MICHAEL T. KAUFMAN

DATELINE: Reasoned Discourse Is In, Corporal Punishment Is Out

 BODY:
FROM ancient days to the more modern era of colonialism, big and powerful governments had a variety of tactics to choose from when trying to quiet smaller, uppity and rebellious peoples and maintain order. They could resort to tribal subventions, which meant bribing people to behave themselves. They could mount punitive expeditions to cow obstreperous outlanders. They could even banish local leaders, sending them into exile in some far area of empire.
These days, as tasks of establishing order in imploding countries and suppressing the ambitions of remote satraps and tin-pot tyrants fall more and more to multinational organizations, it is obvious that so far neither the United Nations, nor the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, nor the European Community, nor other regional associations have found ways of doing any such thing. 
 Instead, in a world where all sovereignties are at least technically regarded as equal, the weapons with which the powerful address crises in Haiti, Somalia, Bosnia and other places have been limited to embargoes, seemingly endless discussion, moral suasion and low-caliber peacekeeping. Where a British viceroy in New Delhi might have ordered a column to march with flags flying in a show of force through a restive Baluchistan, today great powers are more likely to gather together and jawbone the situation -- watering down their individual responsibility, resolve and initiative in the process.
Such diminished assertiveness had the United States, which once saw fit to militarily occupy Haiti for 19 years, last week struggling to fine tune rather than broaden an embargo that draws its rationale not from the Monroe Doctrine but from a United Nations decision. And last month it ordered a naval vessel carrying military personnel in support of a peace plan to retreat over the horizon as thugs in Port-au-Prince harbor chanted rude slogans.
Deploring the timid responses to what has been happening in Bosnia, Vaclav Havel, the Czech President, in a speech last month recalled earlier tragedies of appeasement in Europe. "We talk and talk, we drown in compromises, we redraw the maps, we read the lips of the ethnic cleansers," he said, "and, with increasingly serious consequences, we forget the fundamental values upon which we would like to shape the future of our continent."
Actually, the contemporary approaches have not always proved ineffective. International embargoes similar to the ones the ones currently being applied to Haiti and Serbia have worked to alter what was held to be unacceptable behavior in places like Rhodesia and South Africa. But as the experience of those countries shows, sanctions tend to work very slowly, sometimes taking more than a decade for their bite to prove decisive.
And it is worth recalling that the old ways were often abused to maintain not so much peace as the exploitative relationship of colonial master and subject. Punitive expeditions and the bribery or subversion of local figures were probably carried out more often in pursuit of such imperial aims as conquering land, acquiring monopolies, protecting slave routes and opening up the opium trade than they were in quelling factional slaughter.
Still, there was an efficacy and directness in older gunboat diplomacy that must seem enviable to diplomats who have been trying to curb or prevent killing in places like Serbia, Somalia, Liberia, Angola and Cambodia -- all places where, in contrast with the zones of colonial conflict, the major industrial powers have debatable interests, if any at all. In places where the interests of more powerful states have been clear -- like those of the Americans, British and French in Kuwait; the Americans in Grenada and Panama; the British in the Falkland Islands; the Israelis in Lebanon -- punitive operations have been successfully mounted.
The motives for those interventions were more like those of an earlier era when armies set out unabashedly to punish, to frighten and sometimes to occupy. They differ from those current hot spots where the rationales for interference make use of a more positive vocabulary: to insure humanitarian assistance, build confidence, provide peacekeeping, pave the way for elections and entrench or advance democracy.
 
Bribes for Peace
 All of this is obviously more compassionate and sensitive, more tolerant of the sovereignty of weak states even when it seems their elites may have run amok or when in fact no sovereign state exists, as in Somalia. But what happens when what is needed is something that might work more quickly than sanctions? When what is needed is precisely to punish, to frighten, or to bribe?
Somalia is the most obvious case. Never really members of a nation state, the Somalis range over a large and desolate area of East Africa, organized in clans. During the colonial division of Africa, when these lands were partitioned into British Somaliland, Italian Somaliland and French Somaliland, peace was often maintained by the payment of tribute to clan chiefs by foreign patrons, though with forces like the French Foreign Legion standing by should sterner measures be required. Then, in the period of superpower rivalry, it was first the Russians who provided the subventions and then, in the mid-1970's, the Americans.
For a long time, such arrangements formed the basis of Somali dealings with the outside world. It is not unreasonable, given the history of the region, that local chieftains may regard payments of such tribute as honorable mechanisms of peacekeeping. But these days who is to pay? The United Nations has no such capability.
Nor does the United Nations or any other international organization seem to have much stomach for administering punishment or even identifying culprits (the United Nations tribunal set up for war crimes committed in the former Yugoslavia has not yet proven its effectiveness). If everybody is a member of the United Nations, if everybody is sovereign, it is difficult for anyone to label anyone else a bad guy. And yet there still really are bad guys.
For the last 16 months there has been no doubt that the Government of Serbia spawned and fanned and continues to back a war against the Muslim population of Bosnia, bringing about a level of terror and destruction unseen in Europe since World War II. Slapped with sanctions, but with not a single allied bomb dropped on its forces or bridges, Serbia and its President, Slobodan Milosevic, have prevailed. The Muslim nation has been dispossessed and the control of most of its land has been lost. Mr. Milosevic tested the resolve of those he had appalled and when all he heard was talk of economic sanctions, humanitarian aid and the positioning of vulnerable peacekeepers, he held to his plan.
Now, facing the faits accomplis of so many refugees, so much land ethnically cleansed, the prospect of punitive intervention seems to have evaporated. One can only wonder how different the situation might be today if a year and a half ago military commanders in Serbia were made through heat of fire to feel that they and their allies in Bosnia were truly subject to attack.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Indian uprising against the British Empire in 1857. (Culver Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOMALIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SERBIA (79%); INDIA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (71%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; SOMALIA HAITI (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOMALIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SERBIA (79%); INDIA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (71%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); BRIBERY (72%); ARMED FORCES (63%); NAVAL VESSELS (63%); 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, MICHAEL T

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



171 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Calls Trade Debate World Issue

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 6

 BODY:
As President Clinton has thrown himself into the campaign to win approval for the free-trade agreement with Mexico and Canada, he has shifted away from emphasizing its impact on jobs and begun to stress a different argument -- that failure to pass the accord will undermine American foreign policy.
The shift in emphasis is in part a campaign tactic. White House polling experts are convinced that the public and Congress tend to defer more to the President on foreign policy issues than they do on domestic or economic ones. So Mr. Clinton has made a conscious effort, they say, to cast the debate on the North American Free Trade Agreement as a virtual foreign policy crisis. 
 But it is a strategy that carries risks. If approval of Nafta is vital to foreign policy and Mr. Clinton fails to secure its passage, the message to the allies would be that he could not deliver on one of the most crucial issues in American foreign policy today. Rejection of Nafta, coming after policy retreats in Bosnia, Haiti and Somalia and on the eve of a meeting with Asian leaders in Seattle, would further tarnish Mr. Clinton's image as a world leader.
The President seems to have warmed to the challenge. Unlike most of his foreign policy addresses, which sound as if he is just going through the motions, his speeches and town hall meetings on Nafta are as animated, enthusiastic and full of arm-waving as any on health care. Perhaps that is because Nafta is the only foreign policy issue that really seems to go to the heart of his abiding political passion: renewing America so it can face the future.
Most foreign policy experts argue that Mr. Clinton is justified in getting excited. Failure to pass Nafta would be devastating for American foreign policy, they say, because the debate over the agreement is in many ways a debate about how the United States should engage generally in the post-cold-war world.
"About once in a generation," former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger said in speaking in favor of Nafta at White House ceremony last week, "this country has an opportunity in foreign policy to do something defining, something that establishes the structure for decades to come."
"After it is established, people wonder how it could ever have been otherwise, but when one goes through the debate, one is conscious of all the technical objections that are raised," he said. "Now we live in a world in which the ideological challenge has disintegrated and a new architecture needs to be created, and Nafta is the first and crucial step in that direction."
 
Central Issues of Past
 Indeed, after World War I the central foreign policy question, as framed by President Wilson, was whether America should retreat to its former policy of isolationism, or accept a new relationship with the world and take part in a collective security system that would call on the United States to protect the territorial integrity of some 40 other countries. That choice was framed in the debate over the League of Nations, and when the Senate rejected membership, America essentially opted for isolationism.
After World War II, the central foreign policy issue was what role the United States would play in maintaining the front lines in Western Europe against Soviet Communism. That was framed in the debate over whether the United States should finance the Marshall Plan for European reconstruction and join NATO, a battle that President Truman narrowly won.
 
Global Trade Pact in Balance
 Since the end of the cold war, probably the central question of foreign policy facing the United States is how it will remain engaged in a world increasingly defined by what the military strategist Edward N. Luttwak has called "geo-economics." In this world the military and diplomatic struggles of the past are increasingly replaced by economically driven competition and alliances in a single global market; arrangements like Nafta are the currency for this new era.
That is why experts, when asked what the biggest impact of a failure to pass Nafta would be, cite the undermining of efforts to reach an even broader global trade accord in negotiations that are supposed to be completed in Geneva by Dec. 15.
This is their reasoning: To complete negotiations on the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which would eliminate or reduce tariffs on goods, services and agricultural products worldwide, the United States, Japan, France and developing countries must all make some politically unpopular decisions at home, forcing their farmers and certain industrialists to accept freer trade.
If Mr. Clinton cannot secure passage of Nafta, the argument goes, his ability to get GATT approved will also be in doubt, because the Europeans and the Japanese are not likely to risk alienating voters at home if they think the United States Congress is going to squelch the deal anyway.
"Our moral authority to persuade other countries to support freer trade would most certainly be eroded if Nafta fails," said Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International, "and therefore our ability to secure expanded markets for our exports would decline."
 
Credibility Issue Cited
 "If we turn our back on free trade with our closest neighbor," Mr. Hormats said, "how credible will we be in the eyes of the Europeans or Japanese in asking them to accept lower trade barriers as part of GATT? Foreign governments will conclude that Perot and opponents of free trade in America are calling the shots."
That is why, said Dr. Lorenz Schomerus, director of foreign policy of the Economics Ministry in Bonn, "we in Europe are watching with great interest to see what happens with Nafta. If it is passed. It would be very healthy for regional integration and that would, in turn, promote better global economic integration. If it fails, that would not be good."
On Nov. 18, the day after the Nafta vote, Mr. Clinton flies off to Seattle for a summit meeting with Asian and Pacific leaders. Virtually all of the heads of state from Indonesia to China have been planning to attend -- in large part because they were certain that once Nafta passed, they would have to scramble to get access to this huge North American free-trade zone, which they viewed as even more threatening than the European Community.
If Mr. Clinton greets them without Nafta, he will not only suffer extreme embarrassment, but will also be left with a much weaker hand in gaining access to their markets for American products.
 
Pushing the Free Market
 Equally important, the Nafta vote comes at a moment in history when the United States has been urging leaders in Eastern Europe, Latin America, India, Russia and even China -- whose governments have traditionally been protectionist and socialist -- to adopt an American free-market model. The long-term stability of these countries, many of which have now chosen avowedly pro-American, pro-democratic paths, depends on their having access to the world market for their exports.
"For years we told these countries, 'You got it wrong -- you should organize like us," said Michael Mandelbaum, an expert on East-West relations at Johns Hopkins University. "And now we say, 'We are not going to let you into the game.' "
Argentina, Chile and Venezuela have all been moving toward more market-oriented economies, in part out of necessity but also enticed by the prospect of joining "AFTA" -- an American Free Trade Agreement that would enlarge Nafta territory into South America all the way down to the southern tip of Chile, encompassing 800 million people.
James Cheek, the American Ambassador to Argentina, quoted its President, Carlos Saul Menem, as telling him in one of their first conversations that leaders of Latin America would feel "abandoned," if not betrayed, by the United States if it disavowed Nafta. Mr. Menem said the Argentines, the Mexicans and other emerging Latin American "democrats" have staked at least some of their hopes for future economic well-being and social stability on being brought into Nafta.
 
Trade as the Core
 More broadly, if there is going to be a new organizing principle for the post-cold-war world, and some new cement to replace the Eastern and Western blocs of the cold war, it is probably not going to be United Nations membership or an assertive multi-lateralism. It will most likely be based to some degree on trading associations.
If both Nafta and GATT collapse, it will mean that the economic trading system built up alongside and reinforcing the strategic NATO and Japanese-American alliances of the cold war will be crumbling.
"The feeling one gets watching all of this from Europe," said Dominique Moisi, deputy director of the French Institute for International Affairs, "is that you Americans just don't give a damn about the outside world anymore.
"Of course, that is an exaggeration. But there is a feeling that you just don't want to be the organizers of global affairs anymore. Well, if Congress says no to Nafta, that is certainly the message you will send."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Opponents of the North American Free Trade Agreement Manhattan came to Manhattan yesterday to campaign against it. Joe Knedlhans handed a flyer to a taxi driver at Lexington Avenue and 53d Street. (Lee Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); MEXICO (93%); HAITI (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; MEXICO; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); MEXICO (93%); HAITI (79%); ASIA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (95%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WORLD WAR I (61%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



172 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: GIULIANI PROMISES NEW TACK ON DRUGS AND CITY SPENDING

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

 BODY:
Sending a signal about some early priorities of his administration, Mayor-elect Rudolph W. Giuliani said he would issue two executive orders soon after taking office to enforce budget discipline among his department heads and to make clear to police officers that they can make street arrests of drug dealers.
The budget order, he said, would place agency spending under the Mayor's review every three months, to insure that "the budget we agree on is the budget we will stick to." 
 He also said that he or his police commissioner would issue a written order emphasizing the police authority to make drug arrests. "I want to make sure police officers understand they have discretion to go ahead and do that," he said.
Officers have that authority under the Dinkins administration, but the emphasis has been on stopping higher-level drug dealers, rather than street dealers, and Mr. Giuliani pledged during his campaign to reverse that policy.
Mr. Giuliani spoke in a series of interviews Friday night and into yesterday morning as he traveled by van -- as he often did during the campaign -- to a dance of the Emerald Society of firefighters in Queens Village and then veered into Nassau County for a late dinner of pasta and red wine.
The dance and dinner were among the final events in a week that included the last frantic days of campaigning, his tense and narrow victory over Mayor David N. Dinkins and several days of efforts to reach out to black and Hispanic New Yorkers.
He finally slipped away for some private time with his wife, Donna, after a news conference yesterday morning announcing that Richard D. Parsons, chairman of the Dime Savings Bank and a prominent black supporter who had served in the administrations of Nelson A. Rockefeller and Gerald R. Ford, would head his transition council. The group will recommend candidates for appointment to City Hall. [Page 41.]
 
Mayor-Elect in Limbo
 Less than 12 hours earlier he had been driving along the city line looking for a favorite restaurant that he thought would still be open. "I think it's right over the line in Nassau," he said, directing his driver after 11 P.M. to Stella Ristorante in Floral Park. "Are we allowed to go to Nassau?"
At dinner, Mr. Giuliani drank two glasses of wine and ate in stolen bites as he used a portable phone to field questions on a radio call-in show, bouncing his leg up and down with nervous energy.
Three nights after he declared victory in the mayoral race, Mr. Giuliani showed no sign of the exhaustion that had staff members dozing in the van. Yet he seemed in limbo, suspended between campaigning and governing, uncertain what to communicate and what to keep secret, after a race that often saw him at odds with the press. "Can I tell her?" he asked his press aide, Richard Bryers, several times before answering a reporter's questions.
At the dance in Queens under balloons in the orange, white and green of the Irish flag, Mr. Giuliani was surrounded by admiring firefighters and their wives, who grabbed him, kissed him and begged for souvenir pictures. But on the radio show, he also received his first taste of how his efforts to heal the racial polarization of the campaign could alienate some of his most ardent supporters.
One caller condemned Mr. Giuliani's meeting in Harlem Friday morning with United States Representative Charles B. Rangel, the dean of the city's Congressional delegation and a prominent supporter of Mayor David N. Dinkins. "She was angry about our meeting with Rangel," he told Mr. Bryers."You should tell people you worked with him before in Washington," Mr. Bryers advised.
Mr. Giuliani insisted in his interview that no one should have been caught off-guard by his effort to reach out to black voters who opposed him, and contended that the intense focus of the campaign had turned him into a caricature of himself. "I think maybe people get to know you better, if you're lucky enough to become mayor or governor," he said. "They get to see other parts of your personality.
He added, "In a campaign, they come at you from the stereotype. It's hard to see the other part. It's also because a campaign is combat."
Throughout the campaign he ridiculed Mr. Dinkins's emphasis on putting minority groups into government, accusing him of valuing symbolism over competence and merit. But explaining his post-election trips to Harlem, he said, "I didn't say that symbolism wasn't important, I said that the emphasis has to be on substance."
"Charlie Rangel is in fact the dean of the New York City delegation," he said. "Now it also is true that he's a significant leader in the African-American community. But he's somebody that I have to work with, that has to work with me. It makes sense for us to have good personal relationship, or heal whatever scars there are from the campaign. I didn't meet with Charlie today purely for symbolic reasons. I met with him because I want him to know from me that I want to work with him."
Mr. Giuliani had pledged during his campaign to crack down on street-level drug dealers and to be an engaged manager, and in some ways his planned executive orders are symbolic to signal that change.
The Office of Management and Budget already conducts quarterly audits of agency compliance with the budget, although not with the Mayor himself involved. And although Mr. Giuliani said during the campaign that Mr. Dinkins had directed the Police Department to arrest fewer street-level drug dealers to save money on overtime, Mr. Dinkins denied the charge. Instead, administration officials said that there had been a management decision to use scarce resources to go after higher-level dealers.
Calling the fiscal situation one of his top priorities, Mr. Giuliani hinted at quick action "to take advantage of the first three or four months of the administration to put into motion the things you sort of have the momentum to do."
But he declined to say what he had in mind to trim the budget. "A lot of it depends on the decisions that Mayor Dinkins makes," he said. He maintained he could move ahead with a reduction of the hotel occupancy tax that would go into effect "10 months, maybe a year" after it is put into law. And he said as he had during the campaign that significant savings could be achieved through changing procurement procedures.
As he raced through the night in his van, Mr. Giuliani seemed still uncertain how to take command of his new persona as mayor. At one point, he acknowledged that he was never completely certain when he had said something that would make headlines.
He said he was irritated at the perception that he had changed his position on the city's affirmative-action program for minority and women contractors -- caused by his remark early Friday that "I would be very interested in looking at how it's working."
He said he had been widely misunderstood during the campaign and had never planned to abolish the whole program, which sets aside as much as a fifth of the city's $3 billion in contracts for companies owned by women or minorities. But he then outlined a series of steps that would, in essence, gradually rewrite the program to eliminate the preference for women and minorities and instead reward companies operating in economically distressed areas or seeking to hire the unemployed.
 
Reviewing the Past
 As he reviewed the campaign just past, he acknowledged for the first time that his campaign counsel, Dennison Young Jr. had been put in charge of transition planning in August. But he said he had not spoken of this in public for fear of seeming "presumptuous."
On election eve, he said, he had both a victory and a concession speech written. And it was former Mayor Edward I. Koch who told him to reach out to Mr. Dinkins to stand beside him the day after election, even suggesting that he ask Mr. Dinkins to go to Harlem with him. He decided instead simply to request the City Hall meeting.
Mr. Giuliani said he did not anticipate problems in dealing with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, noting that the two men had mutual friends and that Mr. Cuomo had even given him advice during his last mayoral race on how to make the transition from being a lawyer to being a candidate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION ISSUES; POLICE; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC MAYORS (91%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CITIES (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); RESTAURANTS (65%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W RUDY GIULIANI (92%); RICHARD D PARSONS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



173 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
G.O.P. Embraces String of Victories, But It Is Still Seeking Vision for '96

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 6

 BODY:
Edward J. Rollins, whose place as a Republican wise man was restored on Tuesday by his role in the upset victory of Christine Todd Whitman in the New Jersey governor's race, had stern advice for fellow party members: "Republicans shouldn't start buying inaugural tickets."
The Republican sweep this week will no doubt boost morale, fund raising and, perhaps most important for next year, the party's drive to recruit prime candidates. But amid their jubilation about winning all the big contests since President Clinton was elected, including last week's races for governor in New Jersey and Virginia and the mayoralty in New York, many Republicans said the victories did little to crystallize the vision of a party still trying to find its ideological way since losing the White House. 
 Advisers to the candidates who won on Tuesday agreed that the single element they shared was that they ran as outsiders who carried a message of change. Frank Luntz, a pollster who worked for Mayor-elect Rudolph W. Giuliani, was downright critical of the Republican Party, saying it had a long way to go to shed a stuffy image. He singled out two Republican Senators running for fourth terms next year, Richard G. Lugar of Indiana and Orrin G. Hatch of Utah.
 
Incumbents as Targets
 "We don't know as Republicans how to communicate as well as we could because we're still so stuck up," Mr. Luntz said on a panel of Republicans on Friday that assessed the elections. "We are still so damn formal. I mean look, I'm going to take two candidates that I am running in '94, Orrin Hatch and Dick Lugar, who I like very much and I would vote for if I was sitting in their states. Do they look like the kind of people you can kind of have a beer with and talk to? They look like morticians. I mean, they are the people that my mother wishes I dressed like."
Greg Stevens, the media adviser for George F. Allen, who was elected Governor of Virginia, said his optimism for Republicans stemmed from the party's having more challengers than incumbents running for Congress and for Governors next year. That situation in 1994 and beyond "bodes well for Republicans because there are more of us," he said. But the anti-incumbent feelings could also be to the advantage of Ross Perot, who briefly tapped the talents of Mr. Rollins and the votes of many Republicans last year.
Beyond that, there is plenty of historical evidence that it takes more than seizing on anti-incumbent sentiment to turn a party around. In 1986, the Democrats won back control of the Senate and picked up a large share of House seats, saying it was a verdict on President Ronald Reagan and the sour shape of the economy. But two years later, the Democrats still lacked a unifying agenda, and the party stayed fractured.
Asked what the winning Republican candidates had in common, Fred Meyer, chairman of the Texas Republican Party, said, "Bill Clinton." Pressed further, he retreated to a cliche: "They believe in less taxes, less Government."
To some Republicans, such a vision falls short.
 
'Results Are Too Good'
 "My fear is these results are too good for the party," said David Tell, an organizer of the Project for the Republican Future, a new group that is proposing conservative alternatives to Mr. Clinton's proposals. "It's not enough for us to be satisfied simply with having cuffed this guy up six times. The most dangerous inclination will be to suspect that you can get the White House back simply by dumping on the guy who's in there now. You need a coherent, intelligent governing agenda."
If Republicans were looking at the races on Tuesday as a prescription for victory in the future, they did not find it. In Virginia, some Republicans were pointing to Mr. Allen's victory as a sign that a traditional conservative can win election. Others contended that the unexpectedly strong showing of Michael P. Farris, an outspoken member of the religious right, in the race for lieutenant governor of Virginia showed that views like his were on the ascendancy. Even though Mr. Farris lost, he received more votes than Mary Sue Terry, the Democratic candidate for Governor.
 
'Need to Do More'
 But such theories did not hold up in New Jersey and New York, where more moderate campaigns were waged, particularly on social issues. Mrs. Whitman and Mr. Giuliani made no secret of their support for for abortion rights. Some prominent national conservatives like William J. Bennett, who was the drug policy director under former President George Bush, and former Gov. Pete duPont of Delaware went so far as to support George J. Marlin, Mr. Giuliani's Conservative Party opponent.
Nor were there obvious parallels in the earlier victories starting last year with Senator Paul Coverdell's election in a Georgia runoff and continuing earlier this year with the triumphs of Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison in Texas and Mayor Richard J. Riordan of Los Angeles.
Haley Barbour, the chairman of the Republican Party, agreed that it would be a mistake for the party to rest on its victories. "Winning elections in 1993 is no guarantee of anything," Mr. Barbour said. "I don't think there's any greater advocate than I in that we need to do more than oppose Clinton."
Arguing that the party's victories this week were driven by more than anti-incumbent sentiment, Mr. Barbour said crime and taxes were important issues that the party's candidates would again seize on next year.
Michael Murphy, the Whitman campaign's media adviser, said Mrs. Whitman's election should not give new hope to Republicans like Gov. William F. Weld of Massachusetts, who are moderate on social issues. "They want to go find a moderate and say: 'Aha! Christie Whitman proves that the ideal Republican candidate is a moderate.' Christie Whitman was never in this race to be examined under the calculus of 'are you moderate' or not," Mr. Murphy said.
"She was examined on 'Whether you are scatter-brained or not? Will your nutty tax plan work? And do you have any kind of experience in the Government?' "
Because Mrs. Whitman won on a pledge to cut New Jersey income taxes by 30 percent, she faces the most pressure to deliver on her promises. Whether she succeeds will determine whether supply-side economics comes back into vogue.
"We have to deliver on our promises," said Tom Slade, chairman of the Florida Republican Party. "If we indulge in any complacency, we're engaging in the ultimate of political stupidity."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); MAYORS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L RONALD REAGAN (79%); DICK LUGAR (78%); BILL CLINTON (78%); ORRIN HATCH (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



174 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: In Twist, Protectionism Is Used to Sell Trade Pact

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 6

 BODY:
Increasingly desperate to win support in Congress for the North American Free Trade Agreement, the Clinton Administration has resorted to the odd tactic of selling a free-trade pact by highlighting its protectionist provisions.
These provisions, highly technical and buried in annexes, are designed to insure that the agreement eliminates taxes and other trade barriers for Canadian, American and Mexican factories, but not for goods produced by their foreign rivals. The provisions not only require that goods be assembled in North America but also that many manufactured products, ranging from cars and television sets to clothing and shoes, be made from North American materials. 
 For example, a clause that has won the American fabric industry's strong support says a garment sewn in North America qualifies for duty-free treatment only if the fabric for it, as well as the yarn to make the fabric, is made in North America.
 
Protecting an Advantage
 Such clauses, known to trade experts as rules of national origin, are sprinkled through the agreement, though few are as restrictive as the apparel rules.
"The one thing you don't want to do is let other countries take advantage of what we've negotiated," said Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative.
Actually, these provisions were negotiated by the Bush Administration, out of political necessity, to drum up corporate support. They went largely unnoticed until recently, when they began to attract criticism from abroad, notably from Japan. Now, as the Clinton Administration seeks to appease trade hawks in its uphill pursuit of votes, it has not only welcomed the criticism but advertised it.
When an obscure Japanese trade official attacked the agreement's rules of origin as "sneaky protectionism" during a speech recently at a business convention in Cancun, Mexico, the White House trade office tried to make sure everybody in Washington knew about it.
"They're complaining because the United States is finally, finally trying to protect the jobs of our workers and the competitiveness of our businesses," Mr. Kantor said at the time.
 
'Rules of the Road'
 In a subsequent interview, Mr. Kantor was even more emphatic. "There is no such thing as free trade -- it doesn't exist," he said. "You have to have rules of the road."
A senior Administration official took a similar tack at a briefing for reporters on Thursday. He said the legislation putting the free-trade pact into American law would make it impossible for President Clinton or his successors to alter the rules of origin on apparel -- an act of Congress would be required for any changes.
"That was to provide assurances to the textile and apparel industry that the Administration wasn't going to, by regulation or by practice, somehow change or alter those rules of origin," the official said. "Those are, as you know, very strict origin rules."
The new argument from the Administration coincides with a recent bid by President Clinton to present the free-trade agreement as the only way to prevent Japan and Europe from taking over the Mexican market. Both arguments represent an effort to placate opponents and persuade undecided members of Congress and the public that the agreement is in the economic interest of the United States.
 
Weighing U.S. Benefits
 The problem for the Administration is that while the rules of origin might help American factories compete against European and Japanese adversaries, the rules apply equally to the three countries in the pact and do not give the United States an advantage in competing with Mexico or Canada. Congressional opponents are not impressed by the argument, and predict that few members will be swayed.
"The real question is not whether it's good for the hemisphere but whether it's good for the United States," said Representative Sander Levin, Democrat of Michigan, who specializes in trade policy issues and opposes the agreement.
The Administration's effort has also not appeased the ardent critics of the agreement in organized labor. "They are beginning to have to try new arguments because what they have tried so far is not working," said Edith B. Bond, the research director for international affairs for the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
 
No Violation of GATT
 To be sure, all trade agreements, even the 116-nation General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, have some rules of origin. Trade agreements are based on mutual reductions in taxes on imports, and the idea behind the rules of origin is to prevent other countries from taking advantage of the lower import taxes without reducing their own import taxes. Mr. Kantor said the North American pact, taken as a whole, did not violate GATT rules for regional trade agreements.
But the North American Free Trade Agreement is unusual in the way the rules of origin are stated. The international standard is that the nationality of a product is determined by the last country in which it underwent a "substantial transformation." For example, east Asian countries have been able to avoid steep American duties on their television sets by shipping the expensive picture tubes to Mexico, where they are screwed into housings and become Mexican television sets under traditional international trade rules.
 
New Rules Created
 The North American Free Trade Agreement uses the substantial transformation rule for many manufactured goods but creates new rules for some. For example, the new rule for television sets is that a set only counts as North American -- and is exempt from various taxes totaling up to 21 percent of the wholesale price -- if it is not only assembled in North America but also has a North American-made picture tube, which consists of the screen and electron gun.
Already hostile to the restrictive rules of origin of the agreement, free-trade economists said they were appalled that the Administration was presenting the rules as economic virtues rather than the result of political need.
"We would not like these rules of origin in Europe; we would oppose them," said Gary Hufbauer, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics, a nonpartisan research group in Washington. "These are warts, these are clearly warts" on the agreement, he said.
 
Wart or Beauty Mark?
 But American businesses, many of which advocate unrestricted free trade in all but their own industries, said they were pleased. "One man's wart is another man's beauty mark," said Timothy Regan, a trade official at Corning Inc., a glass manufacturer based in Corning, N.Y.
The company said it hoped to sell more glass for use in television sets when manufacturers have an incentive to use North American television screens, and has been lobbying strenuously for passage of the pact. "We are contributing money and we are contributing time and energy -- we are probably contributing as much as anybody," Mr. Regan said.
The strict rules of origin have helped the Bush and Clinton Administrations win broad corporate backing for the agreement. After heavy lobbying last year by Detroit, for example, the North American agreement also contains a rule that cars will qualify for duty-free treatment only if at least 50 percent of their value in parts and labor is produced in North America. The requirement rises to 62.5 percent by 2002.
 
Assessing Foreign Content
 The rules also require that foreign ball bearings and electronic motor controls be counted as part of a fully-assembled car's foreign content, even if assembled in the United States into larger components with mostly American parts. The free-trade agreement between the United States and Canada stated that the nationality of the larger components applied even to the ball bearings and electronic controls used to make them.
The ball bearing industry, an aggressive user of American trade laws that has persuaded the Commerce Department to impose steep anti-dumping duties on imports from nine countries, has mostly supported the agreement.
"I don't think the rules are inappropriate," said David D. Gridley, the director of sales for the Torrington Company, a ball bearing manufacturer based in Torrington, Conn.
But while the rules of origin may help factories in North America and their employees, the rules do not necessarily help American shareholders. The reason is that the North American Free Trade Agreement says nothing about the nationality of a company's ownership. So, cars from the Nissan factory in Smyrna, Tenn., can receive duty-free treatment when entering Canada and Mexico if they are built with enough North American parts.
Several of the biggest Japanese electronics companies have television picture tube factories in the United States. Japanese companies have also been accumulating stakes in television glass companies here. Asahi Glass of Japan owns 49 percent of the Corning subsidiary that makes glass for television screens. Nippon Electric Glass of Japan last month completed its purchase of a subsidiary of Owens-Illinois that is the other large producer of television screen glass in the United States.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lee Givanetti marching with a handful of protesters yesterday in Calexico, Calif., on the Mexican border. Calexico joined 12 other border cities in a protest against the North American Free Trade Agreement. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); MEXICO (94%); CANADA (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MEXICO; CANADA UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); MEXICO (94%); CANADA (93%); JAPAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (95%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); FABRICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); TEXTILE MFG (76%); APPAREL MFG (76%); TEXTILES (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); GARMENT WORKERS (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



175 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Jeffrey Schmalz, 39, Times Writer On Politics and Then AIDS, Dies

BYLINE: By RICHARD J. MEISLIN

 BODY:
Jeffrey Schmalz, a journalist who wrote with passion and insight about the determination and despair of AIDS sufferers, died of complications of the disease yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 39.
When his illness was discovered three years ago, Mr. Schmalz, who spent his entire two-decade career as a reporter and editor at The New York Times, saw his situation not only as a patient but as a journalist. 
 Returning to work after a year of battling AIDS-related illnesses, he persuaded his editors to allow him to cover AIDS and gay issues. His writing gained him national attention as he brought readers into the world of gay politics and of people with AIDS in a blunt and sometimes startling way.
 
Finding Kinship
 "To have AIDS is to be alone, no matter the number of friends and family members around," Mr. Schmalz wrote in a searingly personal article last December in The Week in Review section of The Times. "Then, to be with someone who has H.I.V., be it interviewer or interviewee, is to find kinship. 'I'm so glad they picked you to do this,' Mary Fisher said in an interview just before she spoke at the Republican National Convention as a woman with H.I.V. With her, as with Magic Johnson and Bob Hattoy and Larry Kramer and Elizabeth Glaser, who spoke at the Democratic convention, the talk was the same: of anger and courage and politics. We talked of that deep nausea in the pit of your stomach when even cancer patients pity you and when a doctor, who should know better, puts on latex gloves just to shake your hand."
Colleagues credited Mr. Schmalz with a finely honed news sense, a devotion to accuracy, a sharp-edged writing style and an innate sense of politics, both of the Government and of The Times, that helped him to rise quickly at the newspaper.
 
Began as a Copy Boy
 Born in Abington, Pa., he began his career as a night copy boy in January 1973, while a student at Columbia University, where he studied economics.
Mr. Schmalz was regional editor and a metropolitan news reporter before being named chief of The Times's bureau in Albany in 1986, where he covered the early years of the Cuomo administration.
He joined the national staff in 1988, working as bureau chief in Miami before returning to New York two years later as deputy national editor.
"The healthy Jeff was an outstanding correspondent and editor with a great future in American journalism," Max Frankel, executive editor of The Times, said yesterday. "Jeff in illness plumbed the depth of his experience and applied it brilliantly to his coverage of the plague, producing a remarkable bequest to American journalism."
 
A Seizure at His Desk
 Mr. Schmalz was deputy national editor in December 1990 when he suffered a brain seizure at his desk that led to the discovery he had AIDS.
Part of the price of his ascent at The Times, Mr. Schmalz long believed, was that he hide his homosexuality from at least some of his superiors. But after his illness became known, and with his sexual orientation no longer a secret, he became an eloquent spokesman for the frustrations of people with AIDS and an outspoken supporter of equal rights for gay people. In public speeches, he frequently apologized for coming late to the cause.
At the same time, he was careful to limit how much his own feelings got into print. The potential conflict in having this "by the book Timesman, no personal involvement allowed," as he put it, covering the disease that was killing him, was one of which he was acutely aware, and he addressed it head on in the article last December.
 
'The Prism of AIDS'
 "Now I see the world through the prism of AIDS," he wrote. "I feel an obligation to those with AIDS to write about it and an obligation to the newspaper to write what just about no other reporter in America can cover in quite the same way." He spoke of his situation as a reporter in the context of women who cover women's issues, or blacks who cover issues of importance to blacks, calling it "the cutting edge of journalism."
"Some people think that it is the journalism that suffers, that objectivity is abandoned," he wrote. "But they are wrong. If the reporters have any integrity at all, it is they who suffer, caught between two allegiances."
Mr. Schmalz's life centered on his association with The Times. But with his career ambitions blunted by his illness, he became more contemplative and more philosophical. In a talk to students at the Dalton School earlier this year, he marveled at the idea that, after a year of fighting a usually fast-killing brain infection, blood clots and pneumonia, he had been given "time to get my life in order; my life is more together now than it ever was."
 
A Fatalistic Edge
 His sense of humor, always acid, took on a fatalistic edge. Told by a doctor in April 1992 that he would have to give himself blood-thinning injections each day for the rest of his life, he cracked, "Well, at least it won't have to be for too long." When the count of his T-cells, an indicator of the strength of his immune system, dropped into single digits, he joked about giving them names.
He was acutely aware of the "looking-glass world" in which he lived, seeing his disease as "a good story" as well as a reporter's tool as he sought to give a human face to the AIDS epidemic.
"I make sure everyone with AIDS whom I interview knows that I have it, too," he wrote. "To be sure, that is an interview ploy; I'm hoping the camaraderie will open them up. But there is more to it than that: I want them to take a good look at me, to see that someone with full blown AIDS can carry on for a while, can even function as a reporter. Much of the time, it works. Their faces light up. There is hope."
"But sometimes it fails," he continued, "and I am the one changed by our chat, overcome by guilt that I have lived these two years when so many of my friends and hospital roommates and people I've interviewed have died. At times, I think my fellow AIDS sufferers are laughing at me, looking up from their beds with eyes that say, 'You'll be here soon enough.' "
Mr. Schmalz is survived by a sister, Wendy Wilde of Manhattan, a literary agent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey Schmalz (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times, 1991)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); AIDS & HIV (93%); WRITERS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (78%); CANCER (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (74%); FAMILY (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: SCHMALZ, JEFFREY; MEISLIN, RICHARD J MARY FISHER (55%); LARRY KRAMER (54%); EARVIN 'MAGIC' JOHNSON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



176 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: Seoul's Big Fear: Pushing North Koreans Too Far

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Nov. 5

 BODY:
When Secretary of Defense Les Aspin arrived here this week to devise a strategy for dealing with North Korea's nuclear weapons project, his party of aides and top American officials was immediately whisked off to the Foreign Ministry, where three photographs dominate the conference room wall.
The first shows Seoul in 1945, a peaceful town of traditional-style Korean homes. The second was taken from the same site in the early 1950's, after the forces of Kim Il Sung had swept over the border, leaving nothing standing except smoldering ruins and a few chimneys. Next to it is a color photograph of the same site today, with its sweeping boulevards and office towers. 
 Such images crop up with increasing frequency here in these days, as South Koreans try to impress on the United States how high a price they might pay if they forced Mr. Kim's desperate, often irrational-sounding Government into a corner. The message seemed to sink in. By the time Mr. Aspin left, he and his aides were talking openly about their growing worries that the wrong kind of pressure on the isolated North Korean Government could provoke it to lash out.
 
'Kind of a Danger Zone'
 "There is a very fine line between coercing North Korea to do what you want them to do, and provoking a tremendous disaster," one of the most senior American military officials said here this week. Another official, aboard Mr. Aspin's plane returning to the United States, said, "We may be entering kind of a danger zone here."
Their fear is that events in the next few weeks may force the United States and its Asian allies into the one step they have been clearly trying to avoid: imposing economic sanctions to force North Korea to permit regular inspections of its nuclear sites, under its obligations as a signer of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. Failing to make good on that threat, officials say, would totally undercut the Clinton Administration's repeated policy that "counter proliferation" is a new mainstay of Washington's post-cold-war foreign policy.
But as the moment to impose sanctions through the United Nations has drawn closer, American, South Korean and Japanese officials are wondering aloud whether the nearly bankrupt Government of North Korea would respond violently in a last-ditch effort to preserve its power base.
 
Not 'Just a Chess Game'
 "It is easy in Washington to regard this as just a chess game," said Gen. Gary Luck, the new commander of the 35,000-member American military forces in South Korea, as he accompanied Mr. Aspin to Osan Air Force Base, where F-16's take off every few minutes toward the fiercely armed demilitarized zone. "I keep reminding people that this is for real, and it's real scary."
Indeed, while North Korea may be so desperately poor that it is unable to feed its own people, it holds an ability to rain tremendous damage on the American military forces and their allies in a mission of "re-unification."
Few believe that such an attack, if it came, would last long. China and Russia, North Korea's allies in the conflict of the 1950's, would almost certainly sit on the sidelines this time around. American intelligence reports estimate that Mr. Kim's forces would soon run out of gas supplies. President Clinton, visiting the demilitarized zone in July, warned that such an attack "would be the end of their country." An outcome drawn up by the Pentagon envisioned a 90-day conflict.
Nonetheless, South Korean officials repeatedly stress that even a brief conflict could wreak tremendous damage and threaten neighboring countries. South Korea's extensive system of nuclear power plants are an obvious target. American officials this week talked at length about North Korea's military buildup along the demilitarized zone, saying it had placed about 70 percent of its forces within striking range of South Korea.
Those forces include about 800 jet fighters and 3,500 tanks. Seoul, which is about 25 miles from the border, is within easy artillery range. With North Korea building up those forces, Mr. Aspin and the South Koreans agreed on Thursday to an immediate review of their own deployments and plants. Mr. Aspin said the review was prudent "just in case we've missed anything."
 
Where the Resources Go
 "The reason North Korea is so poor that it does not have enough food for its people is because it devotes almost all its resources to preparing for war," said Charles W. Freeman Jr., the Assistant Secretary of Defense for regional security affairs. But the North Korean Army, other experts say, is poorly trained and poorly fed, with much of its 1.1 million-man force working on construction projects around the country.
The endless debate about what would happen if the North is pushed into a corner explains the tone that South Korea and Japan have taken in recent weeks: keep talking tough, they have told American officials, but avoid hard deadlines and sanctions at all costs.
"There is an opinion around that if the pressure for the North Koreans becomes intolerable, there will be a type of Waco, Tex., situation -- an effort at joint suicide with South Korea," said Kim Jung Woo, an adviser to the National Unification Board, which heads South Korea's talks with North Korea. "This is why we have no choice but to try to appease the North Koreans. Since we know what North Korea is apparently capable of doing, it is not a situation where we can take risks."
North Korea, of course, knows that its reputation for unpredictability is its best card. So far, it has used this to protract the discussions and win some small concessions. But American and South Korean officials insist that as long as there is no evidence that North Korea is making rapid progress on its nuclear weapons development, they have little to lose from playing along for a while.
 
Safeguards and Sanctions
 "We start with the assumption that there is a chance for the peaceful process to work," South Korea's Foreign Minister, Han Sung Joo, said in an interview in his office on Friday.
But this week Mr. Aspin, Mr. Han and others discussed several possible situations that could force sanctions to the fore. One would be a declaration by Hans Blix, Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, that the "continuity of safeguards has been broken" -- in other words, that the agency could no longer establish that nuclear material had not been diverted to weapons projects. Mr. Blix, however, seems reluctant to make such a declaration, even though most experts say the safeguards are now so minimal as to be nearly worthless.
A second possibility is that Washington and its allies may decide that North Korea's actions have gone on too long and move toward sanctions in at the United Nations Security Council. "Our patience is not unlimited," Mr. Aspin said at a news conference here. "It is not our intention to either be weak or look weak."
Mr. Aspin's comments notwithstanding, there is already speculation that Washington may soon back down from its insistence that North Korea allow the nuclear inspections before agreeing to talks about improving relations. Instead, it could offer a "package deal" of inspections in return for economic or political enticements.
 
Some Economic Fears
 Still, many South Koreans say that as much as they fear an attack by North Korea, they are also deeply worried about another possibility: that Mr. Kim's Government will just collapse, leaving Seoul with the responsibility for assisting the North.
Beneath all the oratory about the re-unification of the Korean Peninsula, it has become an article of faith here that the failure of Mr. Kim's Government, either by his death or a power struggle, could lead to a merging of the two nations so fast that South Korea's economic miracle would screech to a halt.
Study team after study team has been deployed to Germany to explore the costs of re-unification, and each one has returned with visions of economic disaster as South Korea pays for rebuilding a country whose basic public services have not been improved much since the Japanese left in 1945.
Some South Korean businessmen talk openly about the need to keep Korea partitioned for a decade or more, with essentially two classes of workers: well-paid ones in the South, and low-wage workers in the North. In short, they would feel best with Mr. Kim's remaining in charge, but without his nuclear weapons project.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); SOUTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); COLD WAR (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INSPECTIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (69%); MILITARY BASES (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; ASPIN, LES (SEC) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



177 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: China Lacks Water to Meet Its Mighty Thirst

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ZHOU CHANG, China

 BODY:
Heaven River dried up 20 years ago. Canals no longer bring water from Beijing's reservoirs. And it has been more than a decade since anyone could afford to fill a rice paddy.
But 53-year-old Xing Shuqin gestured over her donkey to the wheat field beyond and said: "We don't have a water problem, because we have a well. See, the wheat is growing just fine." 
 But in the same breath she conceded that her confidence in the future water supplies in this county was beginning to waver, as it is for millions of peasants in northern China where even the wells are drying up.
The country's Water Resources Minister, Niu Maosheng, said recently in Beijing that "in rural areas, over 82 million people find it difficult to procure water." And more and more water supplies are suffering from industrial pollution or contamination by pesticides.
In urban areas, shortages are worse. More than 300 Chinese cities are short of water and 100 of those are very short, Mr. Niu said.
At a time when China's population of 1.1 billion is enjoying a harvest of plenty relative to any other time in its history, a growing number of environmental scientists are concerned that the country's water resources and farmlands will not be able to keep up with the demands being placed on them to feed ever more robust expansion.
"What is at stake here is the ecological underpinning of Chinese society," warned a physicist who is spending a year in China studying scientific issues for the United States State Department.
China's water predicament is not unique. Dozens of countries, particularly in the Middle East and Africa, face diminishing water resources and fast-growing populations. Even in the United States, a large aquifer that irrigates the wheat and corn belt in the Midwest has suffered serious depletion.
But as in everything, China's size magnifies any shortage. With 22 percent of the population of the world, China has just 8 percent of its resources and 7 percent of its arable land.
A study by World Bank scientists last year warned that "the increasing pressure on this limited resource base to feed, house and meet the energy needs" of the Chinese was rapidly destroying "whole ecosystems" and threatening to put the brakes on China's current economic boom.
 
Two Major Issues
 Soil quality and water scarcity are major issues in these new analyses.
In Daxing County, about 30 miles south of Beijing, the peasants have been growing rice and wheat for millenniums. In the villages around Heaven River no one can remember a time when water was so scarce.
Leaning on his shovel in the big empty pond in front of his new house, Tian Jie, 69, said water used to be so plentiful that villagers raised fish in ponds like the one he was standing in. But Mr. Tian is converting his old pond into a vegetable garden and he hopes there will be enough water from the nine wells that serve his village to irrigate it next spring.
The villagers here, most of them peasants, offer a range of opinions about why the water supplies have been drying up.
Mr. Tian seemed to think a combination of declining rainfall and increasing demands for water from Beijing's urban sprawl were the culprits. Down the dirt rut that passes for a main street in Zhao Chang, where Mr. Tian lives, the village Communist Party secretary, Tian Wan Ling, said that the region was only suffering from a "historic drought."
 
Rainfall Below Average
 It is true that since the 1980's rainfall on the northern China plain has been 10 to 20 percent below average, but this is no worse than the ups and downs of recorded cycles in this century.
The difference today, a number of analysts say, is that northern China, with its dense population, its industrial boom and its urban growth, is making extraordinary demands on the region's thin water supplies.
In the 1950's, Beijing wells drew water from 16 feet below the surface. Today, the city's 40,000 wells reach down 160 feet on average and the prospect of shortages has prompted official debate over the viability of Beijing as China's capital.
Huo Changfu, a 57-year-old well driller in Daxing County, said he remembered when all he had to do was scrape out a yard of dirt to find the beginning of ground water flow. In those days, in the late 1950's and early 1960's, he said, he would sink a well about 40 feet to insure that the water would always flow, even in the dry years. Today those wells are useless. Mr. Huo said he now puts wells down more than 250 feet to insure the water flows.
A Canadian environmental scientist, Vaclav Smil, says that China's land and water resources are approaching the limits of their ability to keep up with population growth. By the end of this decade, China's population will increase by about 120 million, roughly the population of Japan.
"The environmental foundations of China's national existence are alarmingly weak and they continue to deteriorate at high rates," Mr. Smil writes in a study of China's environmental problems.
 
'Environmental Refugees'
 Of the estimated 80 million Chinese in the so-called "floating" population that is migrating to cities or coastal provinces in search of work, Mr. Smil said, many are "environmental refugees pushed out of their villages because there was simply no land left for them to till."
"In the northwestern provinces, there are whole villages that have had to get up and leave," he said in a telephone interview.
The sheer size of China's population makes the task of planning to avoid catastrophe here all the more urgent. If China cannot sustain the food output that has managed to keep pace with a doubling of the population since 1949, there may not be a great enough surplus in the rest of the world to come to the rescue.
"Because of China's size," Perry Link of Princeton University wrote in discussing Mr. Smil's book, "we are all partly in China's boat."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the village of Zhou Chang, China, where the Heaven River dried up 20 years ago, no one can remember a time when water was so scarce. (Patrick E. Tyler/The New York Times) (pg. 1)
 
Map of China highlighting Zhou Chang (pg. 17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; SHORTAGES NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); WATER QUALITY (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); RIVERS (89%); RICE FARMING (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (87%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (87%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); IRRIGATION (78%); WHEAT FARMING (77%); FOOD SECURITY (77%); FARM LABOR (76%); PESTICIDES (72%); POPULATION SIZE (70%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); POPULATION GROWTH (58%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E; NIU MAOSHENG (MIN)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



178 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Taxi Panel Sets Hearing On Possible Fare Increase

BYLINE: By EMILY M. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
The Taxi and Limousine Commission is planning to hold a hearing this month on whether to impose a fare increase by early next year, a commission official said yesterday.
The hearing, scheduled for Nov. 30, will consider the possibility of raising fares for the first time since January 1990, said Bruce Schaller, director of policy development for the commission. 
 The owners of some taxi fleets have been asking for an increase since early this year, arguing that their expenses have jumped since the last increase, Mr. Schaller said. They have submitted data to the commission to support their request.
The hearing will include testimony from fleet owners, drivers and members of the public about whether the fare should be increased and, if so, by how much. After the commission's staff makes a recommendation, the commission will hold another hearing to debate the specific proposal, and vote on it about a month later.
 
Move Is Broadly Backed
 "I think the industry is broadly in favor of an increase in fares," Mr. Schaller said. "Now we have to listen to what exactly they are asking for."
The last time fleet owners requested a fare increase, about two years ago, the commission did not support it, in part because many small fleet owners and independent drivers said business was down already because of the recession and raising the fare would reduce business. But this time expenses on items like new cars, gasoline, health insurance and worker's compensation have gone up, Mr. Schaller said.
But Edward Rogoff, a management professor at Baruch College who has studied the taxi industry for more than a decade, said the increase is not warranted. He said the cost of operating taxis has been artificially inflated by the price of medallions (city licenses for taxicabs), which are at an all-time high.
A private medallion costs about $130,000 and small-fleet medallions are selling for more than $140,000, he said. Since drivers often have trouble finding long-term loans, they have to pay off the medallion cost quickly, as well as make enough to live on.
 
'Riders Get Nothing'
 "It's clearly in the industry's interest to support fare increases," Mr. Rogoff said. "But riders get nothing. They get higher fares with no improvement in services."
Historically, when fares increase, ridership drops off and then increases after a few months. The one exception in recent memory was after a 27 percent increase in April 1980, when riders stayed away much longer than usual.
"The same thing happens to the Transit Authority when they raise subway and bus fares," Mr. Schaller said. "Whether they increase again to the former rate is another question."
Mr. Rogoff said ridership would likely not decline much with a fare increase, since most passengers are not deterred by the higher price. The majority of riders are business travelers, people riding to and from the airport, sick or elderly people and people who do not live near public transportation, he said.
"It's been a while since the last increase, and business is generally up, so even the people who were nervous last time think they can sustain a fare increase this time," Mr. Rogoff said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Taxi Fare: Cost of a Ride" lists metered medallion cab fare increases since 1979 (Source: Taxi and Limousine Commission)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TAXI AND LIMOUSINE COMMISSION (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: TAXI AND LIMOUSINE COMMISSION (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXICABS AND TAXICAB DRIVERS; FARES TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (64%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); LICENSES & PERMITS (50%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, EMILY M; SCHALLER, BRUCE

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



179 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1770 words

HEADLINE: Years of Neglect Raise Cost Of Restoring a High School

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
Six years after it was hailed as the start of a symbolic regeneration of the New York City school system, the reconstruction of the city's oldest high school has become the latest symbol of the Board of Education's troubled maintenance operations with costs ballooning from $22 million to $78 million.
Work crews at Erasmus Hall High School in Flatbush, Brooklyn, have discovered that the school's exterior masonry is so eroded after years of neglect that its terra cotta facade is peeling away from the sprawling four-story structure. Contractors were recently forced to take emergency measures to keep its Gothic towers from crashing down onto Flatbush Avenue, and workers have begun dismantling the towers brick by brick. 
 Officials at the Board of Education and the School Construction Authority, the state agency carrying out the restoration, attribute the huge growth in costs to years of neglected maintenance dating from the city's financial crisis in the mid-1970's.
 
'We've Neglected the Schools'
 "Erasmus is the ultimate, extreme example of what we're facing in this city because we've neglected the schools," said Barry Light, the president of the School Construction Authority.
But officials acknowledged that costs have also exploded and deadlines slipped because Board of Education architects failed to detect Erasmus Hall's extensive structural defects when they surveyed it eight years ago, forcing extensive design revisions over the years since and putting the project three years behind schedule. Also complicating the effort have been repeated discoveries of asbestos in areas that board inspectors had declared asbestos-free.
With much of the school closed off for cleanup or construction, its 2,800 students are packed into jury-rigged classrooms in gymnasiums, basements and cafeterias. Parents are angry, and teachers, complaining of pervasive filth, construction noise and asbestos hazards, are in near-revolt. Many refused to teach during the first week of the fall term, forcing Schools Chancellor Ramon C. Cortines to step in personally to mediate.
Construction began in mid-1992, and teachers, parents and students complained about conditions during the 1992-1993 school year. But the asbestos crisis worsened the overcrowding this fall as portions of the school had to be closed off for asbestos removal. The renovation will not be done until 1997.
 
'It's Not Safe'
 "This is an untenable situation," said Bernice G. Fleischer, a chorus teacher appointed as a liaison with the construction crews. "It's not safe, it's not conducive to good educational techniques, and I think conditions are getting worse."
The reasons for the cost overruns at Erasmus Hall are at the heart of the debate that has emerged since the Board of Education issued a five-year $7.5 billion construction and maintenance request last week. Mr. Cortines argued that leaking roofs and other defects are ruining schools at an alarming rate and that unless the city spends more money on maintenance, repair bills will rise exponentially later.
But other leaders, including Peter F. Vallone, the Speaker of the City Council, have argued that the main cause of deteriorating school conditions has not been underspending but bureaucratic paralysis at the board.
Several studies indicate that the city has cut corners on spending. One, conducted in 1990 by the Hay Group, a consulting concern, found that New York City spent considerably less per square foot on school maintenance than most other big city systems. While Dade County, Fla., spent $7.27 and Los Angeles spent $3.02 per square foot, for instance, New York City spent only $2.62.
And the State Education Deparment found in 1992 that New York City spent $564 per pupil on plant operations and maintenance, while the rest of the state averaged $656 per pupil.
Also lurking behind the problems at Erasmus Hall are failures that critics say have become characteristic of the school's maintenance bureaucracy. One is janitorial neglect. Because Erasmus Hall is one of the largest schools, it has been a lucrative prize for custodians, whose salaries rise with school size. Erasmus Hall has had 12 custodians in 10 years, most of them senior men who have gone to Erasmus Hall to wait for retirement, school officials said. One achieved notoriety in 1991 by hauling his yacht onto the school's athletic field and ordering his staff to caulk its hull.
 
Damage From Tree Roots
 School officials pointed to one sign of the custodial neglect: a stout tree, perhaps a dozen years old, growing out of Erasmus Hall's roof. Its roots have caused considerable damage.
Squabbles between agencies have also plagued the modernization. Officials from the School Construction Authority and the Fire Department are haggling about whose error resulted in last-minute design changes over the placement of fire evacuation areas for the disabled that have increased the cost by $1.5 million.
The board grossly underestimated the Erasmus Hall project's cost; city officials said this is hardly the first time. Borough President Howard Golden argued in an interview that in the board's 1989-1994 five-year plan, which contained the Erasmus Hall modernization as a $22 million line item, the board underestimated the costs of much school construction to promise more projects to political allies.
"Everybody knew it would take more money, and Erasmus wasn't the only school over budget," Mr. Golden said.
 
Estimates Are Defended
 Amy Linden, the board's chief executive for school facilities, rejected Mr. Golden's claims.
"That is ridiculous," Ms. Linden said. "The fact is, we thought we could do these projects for this amount of money, but we were off," she said. "The lesson here is, the more you defer school repairs, the higher the price."
Because the city's 1,100 schools are badly overcrowded, there was no alternative space into which to transfer the Erasmus Hall students before the saws began shrieking, Ms. Linden said. Not surprisingly, many Erasmus Hall students are upset about conditions.
"Half the school has been closed down," said Terrance Dudley, a sophomore who, with the school on a split schedule, attends classes only in the afternoon. "We only get two full periods," he said. "I get history and I get math. The rest aren't even normal classes."
"Its almost impossible to learn," he said.
 
Illustrious Alumni
 Erasmus Hall's current troubles are a blemish on an illustrious history. Founded in 1787 as a private academy, the school occupied for its first 118 years a colonial mansion near its present address, 911 Flatbush Avenue. After the school joined the public system at the turn of the century, the city between 1905 and 1939 built four adjoining buildings in a rectangle around a central courtyard.
The school has always been one of the city's proudest; illustrious alumni include Barbra Streisand, the chess champion Bobby Fischer, and hundreds of physicians and jurists. But like many schools, Erasmus Hall decayed rapidly after the fiscal crisis in the 1970's, which decimated the Board of Education's maintenance work force. By the 1980's, the school was badly dilapidated.
Its 200th anniversary, however, ignited a restoration campaign. "The 200th birthday of Erasmus Hall is a celebration of all that is best in American public education, and of what it can yet become," former board president Robert F. Wagner Jr. wrote in a 1987 letter to The New York Times. Inspired by the brilliant hues beaming through the stained glass windows of the Erasmus Hall chapel at the 1987 celebration, former Mayor Edward I. Koch pledged to reverse the decline: "Whatever is required to be done, let us commit ourselves to do it."
 
'Didn't Do Their Homework'
 Commitments followed. In the School Construction Authority's first five-year capital plan, written for the construction authority by the board in 1989, the Erasmus Hall modernization was budgeted for $22 million. Ms. Linden said the estimate was based on a 1985 board survey of the school. But officials at the authority said they were puzzled from the start about how the board could have estimated so little for the work.
"Somebody didn't do their homework," said Daniel Millman, a senior project officer at the authority. To conduct an adequate survey of the Gothic towers, board officials needed to erect scaffolding and ladders, he said. Instead, "Somebody stood on the roof with a pair of binoculars and tried to estimate the work that way," Mr. Millman said.
Mr. Light said that after new surveys and an open bidding process between 1990 and 1992, the construction agency produced its own early estimate of the project's cost -- $62 million -- which the board approved.
But the construction that began last year brought a series of unsettling surprises. Last fall, masons discovered that the school's tile facade was not tied to the building with steel rods, as is normal, but only with flaking cement. Months later, workmen on scaffolding to repair the Gothic towers removed a series of tiles and, to their horror, felt the entire tower shift. Later investigation showed that the 88-year-old towers, too, lacked any metal skeleton that could provide stability.
 
Errors on Blueprints
 Last spring, the construction authority discovered that holding rooms built to keep handicapped people safe until evacuation during a fire had been incorrectly located on blueprints, requiring extensive design changes. Authority officials attributed the error to the Fire Department; a deputy fire commissioner, Harry G. Ryttenberg, said the authority was at fault.
Despite repeated inspections of the school by both the board and the construction agency, discoveries of asbestos have twice caused costly disruptions. Earlier this year, workmen tearing up a basement floor churned up clouds of cement dust, and tests later proved that the cement contained asbestos. The dust, billowing upward, contaminated everything in four stories of Erasmus Hall's east wing. Contractors said they were forced to discard vast quantities of tools and building materials, and the cleanup was costly.
The nearly two years of setbacks have raised its estimated cost from $62 million to $78 million.
And in September, shortly before school was to open, the disclosure that the board's asbestos inspections in the system's 1,069 schools were completely unreliable forced a reinspection of Erasmus Hall. Asbestos was found in the plaster walls of the school's north and west wings, forcing a six-week cleanup that has greatly reduced classroom space this year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Norman Green, principal, guiding students through a hallway of Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn, as a construction worker, left, did repairs. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) (pg. 44)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: ERASMUS HALL HIGH SCHOOL (NYC); SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITY (NYC); BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: ERASMUS HALL HIGH SCHOOL (NYC); SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITY (NYC); BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; FINANCES SCHOOL BUILDINGS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); ASBESTOS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); ASBESTOS REMEDIATION (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); 

PERSON: DILLON, SAM; LIGHT, BARRY MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



180 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: Watch Those COLA Interpretations

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "No Inflation, but Hold the Cheers" (Business Diary, Oct. 17), it is noted that this year's modest increase in consumer prices will lead to Social Security recipients getting the "second-smallest ever" cost of living adjustment (COLA). Surprisingly, the 2.6 percent COLA is referred to as a "cost" of low inflation. The purpose of the COLA is to keep the value of Social Security benefits constant in real, not nominal, terms. When inflation is high, the COLA is high; low inflation means a low COLA. To argue that a low COLA is a "cost" is to commit an act of what economists call "money illusion." Presumably no one believes that senior citizens were better off in real terms with COLAs of roughly 10 to 12 percent in the inflationary late 1970's.
 
PHILIP ROTHMAN
Greenville, N.C., Oct. 18
 
The writer is an assistant professor of economics at East Carolina University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EAST CAROLINA UNIVERSITY (55%); EAST CAROLINA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EAST CAROLINA UNIVERSITY (55%); EAST CAROLINA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); COST OF LIVING (88%); WRITERS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



181 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 8; Page 20; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT CARS;
Twins, Triplets and Other Siblings

BYLINE: By Marshall Schuon

 BODY:
IT'S funny how things come together. A couple of months ago, my friend Joe bought a Geo Prizm and was delighted with it. Then, a week later, another friend, Jim, bought a Toyota Corolla.
Both talked to me about the shiny new wheels, both bubbling over, each telling me the same sorts of things. Finally, I told the two of them that they ought to get together because they'd bought cars that were basically identical. 
 I've been with them since, listening to them compare notes -- Joe about his $12,000 aqua Prizm and Jim about his $13,000 tan Corolla -- but the kernel of truth in all this still hadn't occurred to me. Sometimes I'm not so smart.
What it took was (gasp!) a press release from the American Automobile Association, which pointed out that the organization's auto pricing service could save consumers money by letting them know that less expensive cars are often clones of pricier models.
Dave Van Sickle, the A.A.A.'s engineering director, noted that the twins, triplets and quadruplets being manufactured in Detroit and elsewhere were virtually identical cars and that buyers could often use the information to their advantage.
The chart (at right) shows the vehicles that are built on the same platforms, often on the same assembly lines, but that have different nameplates, like Joe's Prizm and Jim's Corolla.
Both are products of New United Motors Manufacturing, the General Motors-Toyota partnership in Fremont, Calif., although some of the Corollas also come from a Toyota plant in Canada. And while there is some difference in styling, the half-sisters are the same under the skin.
According to Van Sickle, however, some insurance companies charge 5 percent more to insure the Toyota. And there was that $1,000 difference in the stickers that Joe and Jim found on their cars.
The A.A.A.'s pricing service (dial 1-800-932-0065) reports a similar figure in at least one area of the large-car category. Shoppers, it says, can save $1,124 by purchasing an Olds 98 Regency that retails for $26,500, rather than its twin, the Buick Park Avenue, at $27,624.
Among competitively priced siblings, the association says, there is also enough variation in standard equipment, colors, styling, option packages and accessories to give shoppers a real choice.
Further, clones expand an owner's service options; knowing that a Mitsubishi Mirage is the same as Plymouth and Dodge Colts and the Eagle Summit means you have a larger selection of repair shops.
Negotiating for a car with a twin can have other advantages, too. A clone that has lower sales may offer more "haggle room," for example, although it is important to note that the more popular model generally will hold its value better.
"Even the well-heeled can find a relative bargain," the A.A.A. said. "If you don't mind a different grille and headlights, opting for the long-wheelbase Bentley Brooklands at $152,400 rather than its twin, the $178,200 Rolls-Royce Silver Spur III, can save $25,800."
That's a nice bit of pocket change, but you can figure to donate it to the corner gas station. Another thing that the Bentley and Rolls have in common is an "economy" rating of 10 miles per gallon, city, and 13, highway. Easy come, easy go.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (69%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (69%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (69%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (53%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE ASSN (AAA) AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (69%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE ASSN (AAA)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (53%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; PRICES AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); INSURANCE (62%); 

PERSON: SCHUON, MARSHALL

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



182 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: In America;
The Voting Equation

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
On Thursday, while Mayor-elect Rudolph Giuliani met with a small group of supporters in the creaking, musty basement of Salem United Methodist Church in Harlem, a young man named Arnold Wattley stood on the sidewalk across the street and lamented Mr. Giuliani's election.
"It wasn't fair," said Mr. Wattley. He jammed his hands into his pockets and shifted from one foot to the other, his body tense against the damp, cool afternoon air. "They didn't give Dinkins a chance. Now it's going to be hell on us because Giuliani ain't down with no brothers." 
 Mr. Wattley, 26, described himself as an unemployed electrician. I interrupted his complaints about Mr. Giuliani to ask if he had voted Tuesday.
He looked startled. For a moment he couldn't speak. He had the good sense, at least, to be embarrassed. He hadn't voted.
I asked the question again and again, in Harlem, in Bedford-Stuyvesant, in Brownsville. Dinkins territory.
"Did you vote?"
"No."
"Did you vote?"
"You know, I had planned to vote."
"Did you vote?"
"Man, I couldn't make it."
We have heard that David Dinkins was defeated because so many white voters who usually vote Democratic voted against him. We have heard that he was swept out by a surge of Staten Island voters, many of them drawn to the polls to vote for secession. We have heard about anti-incumbent sentiment, the desire for change, and disenchantment with old-fashioned liberalism.
But we have not heard much about the tens of thousands of Dinkins supporters, most of whom are loudly complaining about the election of Mr. Giuliani, who could not get themselves to the polls on Election Day.
It's an easy equation. They vote, he wins.
Only a fool would deny that race played a major role in the election. But you don't fight racism by whining about it. You counter it with some form of action. In this instance, voting would have been a good start.
For Mr. Dinkins, the election results were probably a godsend. He escapes City Hall with a huge pension and his reputation intact. Instead of absorbing his daily barrage of criticism, the Mayor is now the toast of those who marvel at his grace and applaud his contribution to the healing of the city. People who trashed him a week ago now speak of him as a saint.
Mr. Giuliani, on the other hand, is entering the maelstrom. His first and most serious problem is not the budget deficit he will face as soon as he takes office but the resentment that has surged through black neighborhoods since Tuesday night.
Arnold Wattley's view, correct or incorrect, is the prevailing one: that David Dinkins was treated unfairly because of his color, and that Rudolph Giuliani is no friend of black people.
It is not that African-Americans across the city thought that David Dinkins was such a terrific mayor; it is their feeling that a comparable white mayor who was a Democrat would have been re-elected.
Mr. Giuliani has gone out of his way since the election to stress that he will not run an "exclusionary" administration. He has visited black neighborhoods, and he has promised to reconsider some of his campaign positions that have caused unease among African-Americans.
He deserves a chance. And he could use some help getting his message out.
Mr. Giuliani does not have an extensive network of contacts and organizations linking him to black and brown neighborhoods. That is especially dangerous when some of those neighborhoods are rife with frustration, anger and fear.
Black and Latino leaders would provide a tremendous service to the city by cooperating with Mr. Giuliani in forging the necessary links.
Mr. Giuliani can help himself by seeking the advice of Bill Lynch, Mayor Dinkins's closest aide, on establishing stronger contacts in the neighborhoods. Mr. Lynch is an expert in that area.
And it would be wise to keep Raymond Kelly on as Police Commissioner, a move Mr. Giuliani is considering. Mr. Kelly is respected by law enforcement people and by the people in the neighborhoods, a combination that is especially needed in New York right now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; BLACKS (IN US) US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CITIES (78%); RACE & RACISM (66%); LIBERALISM (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); BUDGETS (50%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



183 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1848 words

HEADLINE: Health Plan Is Toughest On Doctors Making Most

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
After a quarter century of surging incomes that made many of them millionaires, the nation's doctors now face the prospect of stable or shrinking pay.
Vulnerable to the biggest declines are specialists whose incomes have soared with the advent of expensive medical procedures -- cardiac surgeons, for example, who make an average of $575,000 in private practice, and radiologists, who make an average of $310,000. At the same time, family practitioners, who now average about $119,000 a year, may hold their ground or see modest increases in income. 
 "The half-million-dollar-a-year doctor, I think, is in trouble now," said Dr. John M. Eisenberg, chairman of medicine at Georgetown University and chairman of an advisory group to Congress on Federal payments to doctors. He predicted a leveling of medical pay, saying, "I suspect physicians will continue to be in the upper 1 percent of the American public in income, but we'll see less disparity among them."
 
What Is Fair?
 The question of what income would be fair and reasonable is an often unspoken subtext of the health care debate. As it promotes its health plan, the White House speaks of improving medical "efficiency," not of slashing salaries; doctors warn of the possible impact of cost controls on patient welfare rather than about what new limits portend for their own livelihoods.
New pressure on doctors' fees is already coming from insurers, who are more aggressively negotiating discounts and challenging high bills, and the Federal Government, which is reallocating Medicare payments among specialties as well as limiting total payments. That pressure will intensify if Congress adopts anything resembling President Clinton's health proposals, which would encourage more prepaid care and set limits on medical spending.
Payments for "physician services" account for only about one-fifth of all the money spent on health care, Federal data show. Clearly, restricting the pay of individual doctors offers no panacea for runaway health costs, but lower fees for many medical services will almost certainly be part of any plan for curbing health spending.
The prospect of stagnant or reduced pay has caused soul-searching and anger among many doctors and growing conflict among specialists, now fighting for shares of a pie that no one expects will keep expanding as in the past.
What many experts consider excess payments for surgical and diagnostic procedures may also be harming patients, medical experts say, by encouraging doctors to subject them to unneeded procedures.
The most frequently cited income statistics are compiled by the American Medical Association. The association's most recent data, for 1991, found an average net income among all doctors of $171,000. Among 17 specialties listed by the A.M.A., average incomes ranged from a low of $112,000 for family practitioners to a high of $274,000 among orthopedic surgeons.
But these averages mask enormous differences between and within specialties.
A more detailed and recent breakdown of incomes in 46 specialties and subspecialties provides a far more revealing picture of earnings at the upper end. These data, compiled by a medical trade association, show that a minority of doctors in certain specialties are making vastly more money than others.
Those doctors at the high end include cardiac surgeons, who have exceptionally long training, high stress and long working hours. They also include radiologists, whose training is not as arduous and who often work normal office hours but use technicians to serve large numbers of patients at high fees.
These more detailed numbers were collected by the Medical Group Management Association in Englewood, Colo., a trade group that includes 113,000 doctors in group practices with three or more members. These doctors make up "a fairly representative cross-section of American medicine," said David M. Gans, a senior project director at the association, although their incomes tend to be somewhat higher than those of doctors in solo or academic practice.
 
Vast Range of Income
 At the high end, the group association data show that cardiac surgeons made an average of $575,000 in 1992, and neurosurgeons an average of $449,000. Orthopedic and hand surgeons averaged more than $300,000, while diagnostic radiologists had average incomes of $310,000.
At the low end, doctors in family practice averaged $119,000, those in pediatrics $124,000 and those in general internal medicine $130,000.
The association also provides a breakdown of incomes within the specialties, showing that 10 percent of cardiac surgeons, for example, made more than $887,000; 10 percent of radiologists made more than $469,000, and 10 percent of ophthalmologists more than $434,000.
There is no objective way to determine how much doctors should make compared with other professions. Many doctors argue that the rise in their income over recent decades was not excessive compared with the increases in lawyers' or bankers' incomes. But those professionals make no bones that making money is one of their chief goals. Doctors defending their incomes are more apt to cite their extensive training and the miraculous benefits they offer.
"People pay orthopedic surgeons more because they feel that what we do is so skilled and specialized," said Dr. Bernard Rineberg, an orthopedist in New Brunswick, N.J., and president of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons. He noted that a hip replacement could take someone from a wheelchair to a nearly normal life.
Dr. Dean Kross, a cardiologist in Pittsburgh, said that he had trained for six years beyond his four years of medical school and worked long, often stressful days. "I treat patients in the throes of a heart attack who survive and can go back to work without the terror of facing death on an ongoing basis," Dr. Kross said. "I don't know what that is worth."
What is clear is that doctors have largely evaded normal economic forces. Studies have found a growing surplus of doctors in some medical specialties compared with the need, yet incomes have continued to rise.
"Supply and demand economics never applied to doctors," said Dr. Ira M. Rutkow, a hernia surgeon in Freehold, N.J., who also holds a doctorate in health economics. With insurers paying almost whatever was asked, specialists could make up for declining volume with higher prices.
As recently as the 1950's, disparities among the incomes of different specialists were not that huge, although surgeons usually made the most, said Dr. Albert D. Roberts, an internist and a nephrologist at the University of Texas at Houston. He noted the crucial role that Medicare, the Federal program for the elderly, initially played in raising fees of some specialists.
When it was founded in the mid-1960's, Medicare agreed to pay "usual and customary rates" for doctors' services. In the 1970's, as the Government became concerned about soaring costs, those traditional fees were locked into the Medicare payment scale. But as new surgical and diagnostic techniques developed, Dr. Roberts said, " 'usual and customary' tended to be whatever the first surgeon charged."
 
'Fortunes Began to Be Made'
 As Dr. Eisenberg describes it, "the trick was to start up as high as you could when you adopted a new service." Private payers followed the Federal lead.
So, while surgeons may have been receiving $1,200 for removal of a lung, those who did the first cardiac bypass operations could say it was worth $5,000, and get it. The story was similar for other advances -- usually, to be sure, of major benefit to patients -- like hip and knee replacements, cataract and retinal surgery and diagnostic tools like fiberoptic scopes and new imaging techniques.
For instance, gastroenterologists had been receiving $50 or $60 for peering into the colon with the rigid proctoscope, but then the technology changed. "Those who mastered the new scopes started charging $1,000 for it," Dr. Roberts said. "Fortunes began to be made.
"So the gastroenterologists and cardiologists have princely incomes," Dr. Roberts added, "while the non-procedural doctors, those using the trained brain, are typically paid at the same old rates."
Furthermore, the financial reward for doing tests and surgery are such that many experts suspect it leads to overuse of procedures, perhaps to the detriment of patients.
"The current system pays you multiple times over to do the procedure instead of watching and waiting," Dr. Eisenberg said. "Any normal human being has to fight off the financial incentive to go ahead and do the procedure."
In 1992, Medicare began phasing in its new fee schedule, which seeks to link payments more closely to the actual training, cost and time involved in performing a given service. In an extreme case, cataract surgery, which has become a relatively simple and quick operation, Medicare fees are declining to below $900 from $1,500, said Paul B. Ginsburg, executive director of the Physician Payment Review Commission, a Congressional advisory body.
Medicare payments account for about one-fourth of the average doctor's income. Today, private insurers pay doctors more than Medicare does for a given service. But many Blue Cross plans and private insurers, while keeping a higher overall level of fees, are adopting Medicare's method of re-ranking the relative value of different services. This will only intensify the pressure on upper-end specialists.
 
H.M.O. Salaries
 If an era of spectacular incomes for a minority of doctors appears to be closing, the financial future for the majority may not be as bleak as many fear. With or without the Clinton plan, more doctors may end up in health maintenance organizations, many of which have doctors on salary. If current H.M.O. salaries are any guide, doctors who join will have handsome incomes, usually with shorter days and few of the administrative headaches of private practice.
A national survey in early 1993 by Warren Surveys of Rockford, Ill., shows that H.M.O.'s pay somewhat less than private practice, but are still fairly generous. The average H.M.O. salary for orthopedic surgeons was $207,000, while the senior surgeon in each group received an average of $429,000. Bonuses averaged $12,000.
Near the lower end, the average H.M.O. salary for pediatricians was $98,000, with senior doctors averaging $135,000 and bonuses averaging $7,000.
Even the worst nightmare of many doctors -- national adoption of Medicare fees for all patients -- would not mean calamity. A study in the Fall 1993 Health Affairs by Christopher Hogan of the Physician Payment Review Commission found that universal adoption of Medicare fees would yield net incomes for doctors of $100,000 to $200,000. Incomes of general doctors would typically rise, while those of specialists would fall, in some cases drastically.
"It's very clear that society gives physicians a signal about what it values by how it pays them," said Dr. Eisenberg, the commission chairman. "Now, it's giving a changing signal."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 11, 1993, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about doctors' incomes misstated the affiliation of Dr. Albert D. Roberts. He is with the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas, not Houston.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "What Doctors Earn" shows average compensation in '92 (Source: Medical Group Management Assoc.) (pg. 1); "Doctors' Incomes: A Closer Look" shows average compensation of doctors in each specialty. (Source: Medical Group Management Assoc.) (pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAL GROUP MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (84%); MEDICAL GROUP MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (84%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAL GROUP MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (84%); MEDICAL GROUP MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (84%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DOCTORS; INCOME; FEES (PROFESSIONAL); HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); FAMILY PRACTICE (89%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); STATISTICS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MEDICARE (73%); RADIOLOGY (73%); ORTHOPEDICS (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); INSURANCE (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (69%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



184 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: Strategist Stayed Calm In the Storm

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 6

 BODY:
On Election Night, with the outcome of New Jersey's gubernatorial race far from being settled and the political future of his candidate, Christine Todd Whitman, and perhaps his own on the line, Ed Rollins retired to his hotel room to watch his favorite television show -- the police series, "NYPD Blue."
"When I went back downstairs to see where we were, we had dropped by about 40,000 votes," Mr. Rollins recalled. "It didn't upset me too much, because I tend to get calmer in a fight." 
 Mr. Rollins had had a real fight on his hands. Like an aging gunslinger, he had gone up against the new top gun, James Carville, the man who in many politicians' minds had displaced him as the nation's top political strategist and who had been imported to salvage Gov. Jim Florio's political career.
Hours later, after it became clear that the New Jersey electorate would not provide Mr. Florio a second term or Mr. Carville another political miracle, a bewildered Mr. Carville told a crush of reporters who gathered about him: "I don't like to lose, I'm a competitive guy."
 
Another Opportunity
 And he may have lost more than the Governor's office. The race has been widely interpreted as evidence the President is largely powerless to help his most loyal supporters in time of need, and further, that voters do not forgive tax increases or look benignly on incumbents. For their part, the Democrats reply that for Mr. Florio to have come as close as he did amounted to a moral victory -- though you can't take moral victories to the bank.
For Ed Rollins, the Whitman campaign was seen as an opportunity to repair a slightly bruised reputation.
He had orchestrated Ronald Reagan's 1984 landslide, a 49-state triumph, but last year he made himself a pariah to at least some highly influential Republicans when he signed on as campaign co-chairman for Ross Perot. His tenure in that post was even briefer (and unhappier) than Mr. Perot's initial fling at the Presidency. (Mr. Perot dropped out in July, then rejoined the game in the fall.)
"All the stories of me being an outcast of the Republican Party were never true," Mr. Rollins said. "This was not quite the make or break that some people wanted to make of it."
"I've been in politics for 32 years and this was the best campaign I've ever run against," said Mr. Rollins, tipping his hat to Mr. Carville. "But in the end, we had a better ground operation and that made the difference."
 
Respect for Her Grit
 Mr. Rollins also emerged with considerable respect for his candidate's grit. "The beating Mrs. Whitman took, the vast majority of candidates would be under the bed saying, 'Please stop it, please stop it,' " said Mr. Rollins. "We've all had candidates like that. I had a billionaire who was like that."
Mr. Carville and Mr. Rollins provided as much a clash in style and public persona as the candidates they represented.
Gray-haired and paternal, at 50 Mr. Rollins is just two years older than Mr. Carville, but they project images that are worlds apart.
"I'm not used to having the high profile," Mr. Rollins said. "I've never lived quite the life that Carville has."
Mr. Carville's Louisiana heritage, his folksy but barbed humor and his scorched-earth style of politicking long ago earned him the nickname the "Ragin' Cajun." In last year's Presidential race, he coined one of the catch phrases of American politics: "It's the economy, stupid!"
"People don't hire people like James and me for our personality, for our charm," said Paul Begala, his partner. "They hire us to win. We take this very personally, so we're hurting."
Mr. Rollins took day-to-day command in mid-October, the day after a New York Times-CBS News poll had shown Mrs. Whitman trailing by 21 points. To all appearances, her campaign, under the command of her brother, was foundering. "I was able to get the strategy focused," Mr. Rollins told television interviewer John McLaughlin this week. "We focused it back on his record. We basically asked people to give her another chance, that she really was the candidate of hope."
With two weeks to go, Mr. Rollins said, he took Mrs. Whitman aside and said, "Christie, you have got to make this thing happen. You have got to connect with the voters, and if that means telling the truth about Jim Florio, that is what you have to do." After that, he said, his candidate found a new aggressiveness and a new assurance.
"I always said that Jim Florio was the issue in this race and if you put Christie Whitman beside him, you couldn't lose."
 
Not All Were Surprised
 Though the Whitman campaign had seemed to be bumping bottom, not all her gladiators were surprised, they say. "The conventional wisdom is always very rough on challenger races," Mike Murphy, a Whitman consultant, told an interviewer after the election, "because you tend to get beat up during the summer, you tend to get high negatives, and then you tend to win October and win the election and surprise everyone."
That happened, he said, because challengers -- including Mrs. Whitman -- "tend to hold their dollars and win the one month that counts, and that month is October."
Mr. Carville's bruising and hard-edged campaigning had made him a strategist feared by his opponents and lionized by those he served, including President Clinton, whose cause he shepherded a year ago.
In Mr. Florio, he found his kind of fighter but also his toughest challenge.
Three years ago, in his first year as Governor, Mr. Florio had set off a storm of public anger and was written off as politically dead after he raised taxes by a record $2.8 billion. But with a campaign strategy scripted by Mr. Carville that included unrelenting attacks on his Republican rival, Mr. Florio came within two percentage points of winning re-election.
 
Carville's Lament
 On election night, a dumbfounded Mr. Carville was left to lament the outcome and offer television cameras an uncharacteristic display of self-doubt.
"I'm disappointed in myself," he said. "I let the Governor down. We just didn't do it; in the end, we didn't make it."
The next day, he flew off to Paris, his favorite decompression spot, and left it to Mr. Begala to give the Florio defeat a final spin.
"I think the lesson from both of these candidates is that tenacity matters," Mr. Begala said. "But my greatest fear is that politicians will take the wrong lesson out of this race -- that they have to play it safe to have any chance of being re-elected -- and it will weaken the little backbone that they have left."
Mr. Rollins drew a more pointed conclusion. "If there is a lesson to be learned," he said, "it's that an incumbent in a re-election effort is really judged on his record. You can get a lot of other issues involved in the campaign, but in the final analysis, voters make an up-or-down decision on the incumbent.
"The national consequences are that the Republicans won the big races on Tuesday and will now have the crowing rights for a while. But in the final analysis," he predicted, "if Bill Clinton is successful as President it doesn't matter who the alternative is. If he fails as President, if the economy fails, then obviously it's very difficult to be re-elected."
 
Next Time?
 The candidates' polling as well as independent exit polls show that the election was won in its final days when thousands of undecided voters shifted to Mrs. Whitman, many on the strength of her promise to cut taxes if elected.
Mr. Carville's role as a political strategist for Mr. Clinton has extended beyond last year's race. The President has brought him in to help on such matters as the North American Free Trade Agreement and on his health care package.
Mr. Begala said he and Mr. Carville also are committed to two high-profile political races next year: the re-election campaigns of Senator Harris Wofford of Pennsylvania and Gov. Zell Miller of Georgia, both former clients.
If President Clinton seeks a second term, Mr. Carville is expected to work with that campaign, a prospect that could again place him on the opposite side of Mr. Rollins.
"Having this victory, there certainly will be ample opportunities to do other things," said Mr. Rollins, who except for his dalliance with Mr. Perot and Mrs. Whitman's campaign had stayed out of elected politics since the Reagan years. "Right now, I just intend to go back and put my corporate business back together."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 1993, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about strategists in the New Jersey race for governor referred incorrectly in some copies to a Republican consultant who wrote a memo last summer urging the dismissal of Edward J. Rollins, who advised Christine Todd Whitman. It was Roger J. Stone Jr., not Roger Ailes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Governor-elect Christine Todd Whitman after her victory Tuesday. At left were her husband, John, and children, Kate, rear, and Taylor, center. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. 42)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS GOVERNORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; ROLLINS, ED; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD; CARVILLE, JAMES; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV) RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



185 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 18; Column 2; Education Life Supplement

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Enlightenment On the Harbor

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP

 BODY:
IT'S A LITTLE unreal, this place called Battery Park City. Laid out in 1979, the 92-acre office and residential development on lower Manhattan was designed to re-create the look of an earlier day. The neatly aligned facades of the masonry apartment buildings, the tidy streets and the old-fashioned lampposts lining them recall New York in palmier times, before the postwar suburban e3xodus had transformed the work "urban" inito a prefix for "decline."
 Stuyvesant High School, the most recent addition to the neighborhood, also looks too good to be true. Designed by Cooper, Robertson & Partners inassociation with Gruzen Samton Steinglass, the new school stands in benignly defiant contrast ot the dark images of poverty, illiteracy, violence and drugs often associated with big-city public schools. Instead, the building's sturdy masonry walls, devoid of graffiti, refresh the idea that the public school is among the finest flowers of America's Englightenment roots. 
 And in Stuyvesant's case, at least, the distinctive architecture accurately reflects the condition of the institution it was designed to house. Founded in 1904, and renowned for its outstanding science curriculum and its roster of distinguished alumni, Stuyvesant has long been a bright beacon in the New York City school system. But by the 1980's the school, with an enrollment of nearly 3,000 students, and a need for new science facilities, had outgrown its old building on West 15th Street, and in 1986 the decision was made to look for a new site. The handsome result, completed last fall, is the architectural equivalent of those leather book bags students used to tote before the advent of nylon backpacks. It's stutfy, spiffy and, for now, somewhat stiff.
 
 
An Unusual Collaboration on Design
 The design is the result of an unusual collaboration between the architects and the Stuyvesant Coalition, a volunteer group that became, in effect, the architects' collective client. Formed when discussions about the move were getting under way, the Coalition inlcuded current and former students, teachers, parents and administrators.
 In a sense, the coalition became a school for the architects. Renee Levine, a mother of two Stuyvesant alumnae who now works at the school as "building coordinator," says that "Stuyvesant is not a building but a state of mind." And a major function of the coalition was to educate the architects to grasp that idea. When two members of the design team showed up for their first meeting with coalition members, they were given pencils, pads and T-shirts and assigned a student "buddy." Soon they found themselves sitting in on calculus classes, joining students for lunch, attending gym and chatting informally about life in an urban school.
 Though the students were generally pleased to be leaving the old building, they were strongly attached to its atmosphere and hoped the architects could somehow transplant it. The old building, for example, boasted a fine old jgrand staircase. Couldn't the new building have one, too? The old school's auditorium had a balcony, a design feature that has largely disappeared from comtemporary architects' vocabularies. Wouldn't it be nice to revive it? The students wanted a serious place of learning, but also a haven of warmth. They asked the architects to avoid primary colors and use traditional building materials like granite, brick and wood.
 Happily, these desires coincided with the aims of Alexander Cooper, the school's chief design architect and the co-author of Bettery Park City's 1979 master plan. And moving the school to Battery Park City enabled Mr. Cooper to fulfill the plan's original spirit. Originally, the magnificent waterfront site was to be occupied by luxury housing, an economically attractive option but one that would have reinforced the community's exclusivity. With a major civic institution, the neighborhood would at last gain the public identity that the master plan was designed to evoke.
 The wedge-shaped site had a major drawback: it was tiny, barely 60,000 square feet. If the school's plant was to be expanded, the only place to go was up. This has resulted in a distinctly untraditional 10-story building, twice the height of the usual New York City school. While the students got their staircase, and a stately granite lobby at its foot, the stairs have become a largely ceremonial adjunct to a fast-moving "skip-stop" escalator system that rises through the building's core.
 The architects compensated for the height by breaking up the building's bulk: separating Stuyvesant's academic from its non-academic functions and giving each a distinct architectural treatment. The school's 70-plus classrooms and labs are housed within the 10-story structure, an academic tower clad in buff and brown brick, with finely proportioned windows that give the block a sense of scale. Rising from a base of white limistone, and capped by a curved penthouse of gleaming stainless steel, the tower resembles an updated version of the large industrial buildings that proliferated in nearby TriBeCa in the prewar decades.
 Stuyvesant's non-academic areas are clustered in a trio of lower buildings attached to the northern edge of the classroom block. Housing, respectively, the school's athletic facilities (two full-size gyms, stacked atop a competition pool), the auditorium (with, yes, a terrific balcony) and the shop wing (topped by a penthouse cafeteria with peerless river views), these structures help to create the impression of a campus - a quadrangle without its central courtyard.
 In effect, the courtyard has moved indoors. The escalator core, and the corridors bordering it, have become not only the school's chief circulation spine but also its chief areas for students to gather. This was a deliberate feature of the design. Instead of providing student lounges, the architects created informal spaces "where things could happen": shallow alcoves or stretches of hallway where a Ping-Pong table might materialize, a band could rehearse or a group of seniors might unoffically assert their territorial claims.
 
 
A Serious, Working-Place Atmosphere
 Stuyvesant originated as a manual trade school, and its industrial origins persist inthe serious, working-place atmosphere that pervades tha academic block, with its tiered classrooms, chemistry and physics labs, banks of computer terminals, and the shop wing's somewhat spooky laboratory for sophisticated robotics. The industrial look, too, is evident in what Alexander Cooper calls the "subway esthtic" of the interior finishes of ceremic and vinyl tile. but pride of place is given to a dignified two-story library, in the exact heart of the building; furnished in warm woods, the library is expressed on the building's southern facade with a columned loggia of classical proporations.
 The move has had its share of bumps. The beautiful pool has beenj out of commission because of leaks. The drinking fountains had to be turned off when pipes carrying toxic wastes endangered the water supply. And the school has yet to work out an agreement with the Battery Park City Authority over the community use of the auditorium and the athletic wing.
 Like Battery Park City itself, in other words, Stuyvesant High School needs some breaking in. You can duplicate the trappings of tradition, but you can't fake the familiarityj that comes from years of use.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 7, 1993, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Education Life section last Sunday about Manhattan's new Stuyvesant High School located the old one incorrectly. It was on East 15th Street.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stuyvesant High, an urban school almost "too good to be true." ; The new 10-story high school complex in the foreground, whose classrooms look out on the Statue of Liberty - a sharp contrast to dark images of poverty, violence and hoplessness associated with urban schools.; Escalator core and bordering corridors are for travel and socializing. Instead of lounges, architects created informal spaces "where things could happen" - alcoves for Ping-Pong, impromptu band rehearsals ro for seniors, say, to stake out territory. (Photographs by Jeff Goldberg/Esto)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STUYVESANT HIGH SCHOOL (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: STUYVESANT HIGH SCHOOL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CURRICULA (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); ALUMNI (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); CALCULUS (65%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1993



186 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 20; Column 1; Education Life Supplement

LENGTH: 2128 words

HEADLINE: Treating Drugs at School

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: SANTA ANA, Calif.

 BODY:
KARL GONZALES tried alcohol and marijuana at his older brother's urging at age 7. He got his first tattoo at 11, joined a Latin gang at 12 and was arrested for stealing car parts at 13. By 14 he was smoking pot regularly, and at 15 he dropped out of school.
 Then things got ugly. 
At 16 he was fighting with knives, carrying guns and using cocaine, and was shot in the stomach by a rival gang member. The following year he was dealing drugs, smuggling Uzis and M-16's and was arrested for trying to steal a car.
 A probation officer sent Karl, who is from Los Angeles, to Phoenix Academy, a residential high school here for teen-agers with drug problems. The school is one of five that were established in California, New Jersey and New York in the 1980's and early 90's by Phoenix House, the nation's largest residential drug-treatment organization and the first to make the schools available to teen-agers of any economic status.
 
Skipping Class, Using LSD at 16
 Holly Oehlman, the 16-year-old middle child in a Long Beach, Calif., family of five, was using LSD the summer before her freshman year of high school. Drawn to the wrong crowd, she became a Deadhead -- a devotee of the rock group the Grateful Dead. At first she skipped classes, then whole days of school. When she did attend, she was usually high on drugs. Her parents, Bill and Pam Oehlman, placed her in short-term hospital treatment programs but they didn't work. "We were on a mental roller coaster," said her father, a 47-year-old building contractor. "Her actions were on the edge and beyond."
 Holly was enrolled at Phoenix Academy by her parents, along with Karl and 50 other teen-agers.
 Karl is now free of drugs, working on the student newspaper as a graphic artist, jogging several miles a week and, as head of the grounds crew, making sure the hedges are trimmed. Academically, he is thriving. Holly is earning high honors, and is immersed in theater and other activities.
 Phoenix House says Karl and Holly are taking one of the few approaches that can work for such teen-agers. Its philosophy is that educating anyone seriously addicted to drugs is next to impossible, but that for many adolescents, drug treatment is far more effective and longer-lasting if it is combined with sound education.
 Staff members at the labyrinthine academy with its red-tiled roof, tucked into a busy commercial landscape here, say their first task is often piecing back together personalities ripped apart both by drugs and the pain of the urban life from which drugs may have been an escape -- the effects of childhood abuse or neglect, the disappearance of a parent or parental divorce, peer pressure or violence. The task is to set these young people off on a kind of inner search for elements of themselves never developed, like patience, discipline, compassion, a sense of achievement, even their own emotions. Especially their own emotions.
 "Feelings will get you -- like a soda bottle," says Karl, making a vigorous shaking motion with his hands. "Before I was always on drugs, so I didn't know what feelings were. Sometimes I want to run out of here because it hurts too much."
 William H. Smith, director of clinical services for Phoenix House programs in California, explained the importance of getting students to look inside. "The drug addiction itself, in our way of looking at it, is a symptom of an underlying cause," he said. "If we can teach people how to feel better about themselves, how to manage their feelings, how to work on some self-discipline and how to be positive, the addiction part of their life will take care of itself."
 Most of the students at the Santa Ana academy say they don't want to be here; they need to be here. But observing them singing before 8 A.M., spurring one another on, hugging counselors, saying what's on their minds, one gets the feeling the first half of their contention is not always accurate.
Some students work at their own pace and some need intensive remedial help in a program that is a collaboration between Phoenix House, which provides buildings, drug counselors and students, and the local school district, which supplies teachers and textbooks.
 The air at one recent morning class was sharp with concentration as students drew time lines of world history. A boy, researching the date of Jesus' birth, was amused to find that it is now estimated to be 4 B.C. One girl mischievously added the year she lost her virginity. But the atmosphere is not always this kind of teachers' dream. Eyes glazed over during a lesson on common versus proper nouns and transitive verbs.
 But on the whole, the teachers are pleased with the environment. Indeed, the students, given responsibility for each other, may privately -- or publicly --help out in this regard, confronting each other if one talks in class or blows off homework, as they put it.
 
Teachers Must Walk a Fine Line
 The students are neither robots nor adults. They squirm and fidget. They indulge in horseplay, though it's officially forbidden. They give each other high-fives. They get moody. The teachers and counselors must walk a fine line, remembering to let them act their age.
 It is also true that the students often rely excessively on staff members, wanting to make them Mommy and Daddy. In some cases, drugs have effectively blocked their maturity. "When you get into heavy drug use with people who are not fully developed psychologically, you can have certain kinds of damage occurring," said Rodney Skager, a professor of educational psychology at the University of California at Los Angeles. "They stay children, particularly in terms of things like impulsiveness and their ability to plan and deal with frustration."
 For that reason, these schools sometimes resemble the Marine boot camp Parris Island, and initial dropout rates are high; 40 to 50 percent of all new residents leave in the first month or two.
 Every minute is structured. Even going to the bathroom is scheduled. There are rules upon rules: initially girls can't wear any makeup, but eventually they can put on mascara. Boys can't grow mustaches or wear pants with the crotch around the knees.
 The academies begin promptly to teach discipline and responsibility. Students are given in-house jobs and are encouraged to climb up a hierarchy of positions, earning power and respect. Group therapy in self-understanding and honesty is given three times a week (when students are allowed to use profane language --an opportunity they seize with gusto) and all are encouraged to vent their feelings in confronting each other. At first it can be rough. "When a kid comes in, their whole code is from the streets: there's no telling on anybody, they lie all the time," said Howard Friend, senior director of the Phoenix House here. "It takes awhile for the peer pressure of the group to break that down."
 More intense group sessions last five hours and center on one subject, such as abandonment or grieving. Six months into the program, residents go through marathon sessions of 24 to 36 hours, in which various psychodramas are enacted. "They recognize that they are safe and can say what they want and no one will punish them for it," said Dr. Mitchell S. Rosenthal, president of Phoenix House. "They can tell their worst fears, their worst secrets and humiliations. They find the loneliness and alienation start to disappear and that they have 'family,' brothers and sisters, people who really know them and can help them."
 Parents are urged to attend weekly family therapy and a social afternoon tea to help open lines of communication.
 Holly's impish smile cuts through her ethereal aura: "We've grown so much. I had never expressed any feelings to my parents except that 'I hate you' or 'everything's fine.' " Her father says he has grown, too: "I've become more aware of the negative things I would carelessly say before" -- barking "knock it off" at his children -- whereas now, he says, "I sit down with them and talk about how to disagree in a constructive way."
 Phoenix House has a saying: "When you're looking good, you're looking bad." This means that a student whose room and appearance are consistently tidy and whose grades and behavior are always good may be on automatic pilot, headed for a crash. Counselors would rather students undergo a more turbulent metamorphosis, acting out in controlled situations. "You don't want them going through the motions, putting up a front, " says Mr. Smith, "and then when you get them back out there and take away the restraints, they fall on their faces."
 In fact, 90 percent of those who stay past the first two months graduate from the program, which lasts from 12 to 18 months in the facility itself and another year in which the student returns for group therapy and other activities.
 Is Phoenix House waging a relatively small battle in a hopelessly large war?
 In addition to the academy here, where there are 35 names on the waiting list, California has another in the mountains outside San Diego with 40 students; a third on the boardwalk in Venice with 50 students, and a fourth academy under construction in Los Angeles. In the East, it has an academy in Yorktown, N.Y., for 300 students and one in Rockleigh, N.J., for 35.
 But in Santa Ana, the county seat of Orange County, 6,500 juveniles are watched by the county Probation Department, and a recent study showed that 43 percent of all youths had drugs in their system when they were arrested, most for burglarizing homes. "Phoenix House serves a very great long-term need," says Michael Schumacher, chief probation officer. "They're making a meaningful dent. But it's still just a dent."
 As with many excellent social service programs run by nonprofit organizations, the obstacles to expanding them usually come down to a lack of money and commitment. Phoenix academies have faced other hurdles, from a not-in-my-backyard attitude on school location to bureaucratic fighting among substance-abuse agencies and education departments. No funds from the Federal Department of Education, for example, may go toward drug treatment, only prevention.
 Though much less expensive than youth detention centers, the Phoenix academies still cost between $20,000 and $35,000 a student a year. That sum is paid in part by social service agencies and probation departments. The few parents who can afford it pay their entire bill, while most pay according to a sliding scale. Phoenix House aggressively courts corporations, foundations and private individuals for money. Despite these efforts, however, the programs remain "just a dent." And local, state and Federal governments -- in other words, the taxpayers -- have been inclined in the last decade to cut back, not enlarge, social programs.
 "There are so many thousands of kids who need these services, and what's tragic is that this model hasn't been expanded," says Mitchell Rosenthal. "We need a President and First Lady who will say, 'By God, we're going to lose an entire generation of these kids if we don't provide more of these services.' We have the means to fix the problem -- but we don't have the will."
 All students leave the program for the yearlong "live-out" phase. For some, this coincides with a return to their original high school to complete their studies. Others get their high school diplomas directly from the academy, and the live-out period entails finding a job and living on their own.
 All along the way toward graduation, the kids work on self-esteem, and often the first glimmers of success with this are seen in the classroom. As they do better and better on assignments, a constructive peer pressure tends to compound the positive results. The meaning of "cool" is redefined.
 "In our school the peer pressure is reversed," Mr. Smith said. "The pressure is to do well, not to drop out. It's not 'If you study, you're a chump.' One of the biggest things the kids tell us when they move back home and go to school is how now they are viewed as the nerd."
 In addition, staff members try to move the students toward depending less on the teachers and counselors and more on each other. "Spread it around" is a refrain of theirs. The residents are not allowed to associate with their former drug-using friends, so they need new friendships.
 "That's my goal right now -- to make best friends and build a support system," says Holly. Karl has no choice. His five buddies from his former life have vanished: Three are dead; one is missing, the fifth is serving life for murder. Karl prefers his new friends anyway. "They're not after you for your money or your drugs, or because you have a car," he said. "They're there because they're your friends."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Karl Gonzales smoked marijuana at age 7 and ran guns at 16. Now at Phoenix Academy, he is thriving academically.; "We've grown so much," said Holly Oehlman. (Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PHOENIX ACADEMY PHOENIX PHARMAHANDEL AG & CO KG (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHOENIX ACADEMY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC SUBSTANCE ABUSE (92%); LSD (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CANNABIS (90%); RESIDENTIAL SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); GANGS (78%); VEHICLE THEFT (77%); ARRESTS (77%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (77%); SHOOTINGS (76%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (76%); CHILD ABUSE (74%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (72%); PROBATION (72%); COCAINE (71%); CITY LIFE (60%); 

PERSON: FODERARO, LISA W

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1993



187 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 14; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: How the Unemployed Are Facing Changes in the Workplace

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

 BODY:
ECONOMISTS would say Eugene J. Cribbin and Catherine Devito are "meeting the challenge of change." Mr. Cribbin and Mrs. Devito, unemployed as a result of company staff reductions, say, however, that they are enrolled in the occupational-training center run by the Board of Cooperative Educational Services in Yorktown Heights because they need jobs.
Mr. Cribbin, 48, married and the father of four, spent 30 years in the banking industry. For the last seven years, he was data-center manager for Chase Manhattan Bank. Now he is studying to become a licensed practical nurse. 
 "I guess I saw it coming," Mr. Cribbin said, referring to the loss of his job. "The banking industry is not doing well, and data processing, in particular, has been downsized."
Mr. Cribbin added that he first thought of entering the health-care field as a viable alternative to banking when he was a patient in a hospital. "This time around, I wanted a skill that would make me independent, and one that was transferable and flexible. As a health-care-giver in private practice you can set your own time, and when you pass the New York State Boards, you are licensed to practice in every other state. I know I will be earning less, but I will be gaining more in personal satisfaction, and, eventually, I hope to go on for further training and become a registered nurse."
 
An Increase in Enrollment
 He recalled the reaction when he told his wife and children about his decision to become a nurse. "At first my wife was shocked," he said. "The children were understanding, and now they all think health care is a good second-career choice for me."
Mr. Cribbin, who started classes on Sept. 8, is enrolled in a full-time day program. "The women in the class outnumber us -- 35 to 5."
Kevin Hart, director of occupational education for the Board of Cooperative Educational Services, said that an increasing number of students taking courses at the occupational-training center are dislocated workers, adults who have lost their jobs. "We have 23 different programs, and this fall we have noted higher enrollments in all of them," Mr. Hart said.
 
A Victim of 'Downsizing'
 The occupational program, he added, provides daytime classes for adults in training programs, which range from 120 to 1,200 hours in health care, word processing, food service and cosmetology. "The programs serve unemployed and dislocated workers and are open to the public," Mr. Hart said. "All students receive support services during their training: career counseling, job development and job placement."
Ruth F. Richards, the coordinator of the adult education program at the board, said: "Today there are so many mature adults who are unemployed. Everyone is interested in finding a new career. Many students are preparing for a second, even a third, career."
Mrs. Devito, who said she is older than 50, is one of them. She was first a business manager, then a customer sales and service representative, who worked for the last three years in Ossining at Hudson International Conductors, a wire manufacturer. On Aug. 1, she lost her job.
"I am a victim of company downsizing," she said. When Hudson, an old-line family firm in business for 90 years, was taken over by the Phelps Dodge Corporation, the Phoenix-based copper-mining giant, Phelps "melded it into their plant in Inman, S.C., consequently terminating almost all of the Hudson employees. But I have to work, and when Phelps Dodge gave us a job-training option, in September I enrolled in the word-processing program at Boces to improve and update my skills."
Mrs. Devito described the course as wonderful. "It is really fun and so exciting to be learning something new," she said. "I only hope when I finish I will become more marketable, since I feel my age is against me in the job market."
Vickie Moretti, who is 36, has a job as an administrative assistant at Reader's Digest in Chappaqua, yet Ms. Moretti is taking a course in cosmetology at the continuing-education program at the occupational-training center.
"In today's world, when you can't count on any job lasting forever, I feel it is important to diversify," she said. "I am the oldest one in the class. Although I have always been interested in cosmetology as a career, I took a lot of secretarial courses when I was young on the advice of my parents and my guidance counselors. I'm not sorry about that, but I have a feel for cosmetology. I'm glad I finally did something about it. There are always jobs for skilled cosmeticians."
Ms. Moretti, who is being reimbursed for her tuition by Reader's Digest, said she expects to take a two-year certification program to apply for her license from the State Board.
Ms. Richards said: "Our continuing-education program offers short-term career-related courses four times a year. We have an enrollment of 1,400 students currently, who take courses four nights a week and on Saturdays in career-focused categories such as business management, computers, construction trades and culinary arts."
 
A Need for Collaboration
 Mr. Hart said there was a paradox in the fact that while many companies were laying off workers there is a shortage of skilled labor and that that is already damaging America's competitive position in world markets.
"What's happening is that the nature of work has changed so quickly that academic and vocational institutions will have to collaborate if we are going to get people with the skills we need to do the jobs of the future," he said. "For example, take auto mechanics. Today an auto mechanic has to know an awful lot. He has to understand computers, and you can teach a whole course in physics through auto mechanics. Vocational teachers will have to pour more academics into their courses, and by the same token academic teachers must learn to teach more practical applications to support concepts in order to raise the capabilities of high school students who are career bound."
Observing that by the year 2000 70 percent of jobs in the nation will require skilled workers with specific training rather than a college degree, Mr. Hart said: "Thanks to a new educational concept known as 'tech prep,' which is part of the New York State Career Pathways plan, Boces has four tech prep courses under way with more in the developmental stage. Students are required to take academically demanding courses in mathematics, science and communications while continuing their vocational education."
The Career Pathways plan, he said, will require students to have academic technology and work experience during their school year, but the proportion of each will vary according to individual goals. A Career Pathway certificate, somewhere between a high school diploma and a college degree, will be granted to the students on graduation.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eugene J. Cribbin, above, and Catherine Devito, right, unemployed as a result of company staff reductions, during their classes in nursing and word processing, respectively, at the occupational-training center run by the Board of Cooperative Educational Services in Yorktown Heights. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF COOPERATIVE EDUCATION SERVICES CHASE MANHATTAN BANK NORGE AS (57%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK OF CANADA (57%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK FRANCE (57%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK DELAWARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF COOPERATIVE EDUCATION SERVICES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YORKTOWN HEIGHTS (NY) UNITED STATES (77%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET EMPLOYMENT (93%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); CHILDREN (86%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (86%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (77%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (77%); DISMISSALS (72%); 

PERSON: CRIBBIN, EUGENE J; DEVITO, CATHERINE; SINGER, PENNY

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



188 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1649 words

HEADLINE: After a Suit, Moving to a New Life

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: YONKERS

 BODY:
ONCE she navigates past the smoke-scarred lobby downstairs, the litter in the hallways and the three dead-bolt locks at her front door, Carol Giddins finally enters a private oasis -- her tidy two-bedroom, plant-filled apartment that belies the squalor below.
But the sixth-floor apartment on this city's west side has also become a fortress that Ms. Giddins and her two children -- Lacrecia, 9, and Michael, 20 -- leave warily these days. The streets below are scattered with the detritus of drug users, and the threat of crime and violence pervades, she said. Ms. Giddins can recall only two times in nine years when she allowed Lacrecia to play outside. 
 Now a plan, tentatively approved by a Federal judge, may change all that for Ms. Giddins and up to 1,000 poor minority families who live in crime-ridden ghetto areas and receive Federal rent subsidies under a program known as Section 8, which is intended to help low-income families.
Seventeen black and Hispanic families who filed suit in 1991 against the United States Department of Urban Development and other agencies say they want to move out of southwest Yonkers into mostly white areas of Westchester. The minority plaintiffs, with Ms. Giddins as the main plaintiff, say that they, like whites, want their children to grow up in a safe and nurturing environment.
It is a court case that some observers say could have a greater impact on racial integration than the separate Yonkers desegregation case. The Yonkers suit was filed in 1980 and calls for construction of low-cost housing in middle-class areas. Implementation of that plan, which has been slow and the cause of continued court action, relies on moving groups of minority residents into blocks of housing in predominantly white neighborhoods of the city. It has met vehement opposition from east side property owners who claim that racial integration threatens the hard-earned equity on their homes.
In contrast, the case of Carol Giddins "on behalf of herself and all other persons who are similarly situated" would move individual families into existing apartments scattered throughout Westchester's cities, towns and villages, where they will possibly meet less resistance from neighbors.
 
Could Become a H.U.D. Model
 Judge Robert P. Patterson, who presided over the Section 8 case in Federal District Court in Manhattan, approved a preliminary consent agreement between the parties in September.
The decree calls for a five-year program that would entice landlords in nonminority areas to accept tenants who use Federal Housing and Urban Development subsidies to pay their rent. The judge is expected to hear final objections to the plan on Wednesday and to sign a class-action consent agreement shortly after.
The proposal, "if successful in Westchester, could become a model for H.U.D. throughout the country," said Jerrold M. Levy of Westchester-Putnam Legal Services in White Plains, who along with John E. Kirklin of Sullivan & Cromwell in Manhattan, represented the plaintiffs.
"We're optimistic, but there are still uncharted waters out there," Mr. Levy said.
The plaintiffs charged that the defendants, among them two local agencies overseeing the Federal program -- the County Planning Department and the Yonkers Municipal Housing Authority -- steered applicants into apartments in rundown neighborhoods in southwest Yonkers. The suit contends that the agencies made no effort to find apartments in racially and economically mixed neighborhoods in other areas of Westchester.
"Our claim was that Section 8 had been used to perpetuate segregation in minority-concentrated areas," Mr. Levy said.
Robert W. Sadowski, an assistant United States attorney for the Southern District of New York who represented the Housing and Urban Development Department in the lawsuit, called the department a "willing defendant" and said the Federal agency was pleased with the consent decree.
 
'Taking Other Communities' Poor'
 "The suit was filed to bring H.U.D. to their side and compel Yonkers and Westchester, who have become lax, to fulfill their obligations," Mr. Sadowski said.
But the lawyer for the Yonkers Municipal Housing Authority, Joan Magoolaghan of Koob & Magoolaghan in Manhattan, said that the agency she represented was less to blame than the county, which was sending to Yonkers Section 8 recipients "who could have gone anywhere."
"Not only were we taking care of our own poor people, but we were ending up taking other communities' poor as well," Ms. Magoolaghan said.
P. Lynn Oliva, Commissioner for the County Planning Department and a defendant in the suit, denied that Westchester's Section 8 program, which is operated locally for the state, had been steering families to ghetto areas in southwest Yonkers and, by doing that, perpetuating segregation.
 
Anywhere in the County
 Of the homeless people who come under the county program, "many are from larger cities and may want to go back there," the Commissioner said. Also, most available apartments were in urban areas, she said, "and not in places like Pound Ridge." The county operates 1 of 17 voluntary Section 8 programs in Westchester. The others are operated by municipalities.
Louis J. Ganim, a spokesman for the State Housing Finance Agency and the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, also named as defendants, said the consent agreement "moves desegregation in the right direction."
Section 8 participants now can spend up to $976 a month, and in some cases $1,171, for a two-bedroom apartment anywhere in Westchester. Under the program, tenants spend 30 percent of their income for rent, although in some cases it can exceed that, with the rest covered by Federal subsidies. To qualify under Housing and Urban Development guidelines, individuals can earn up to $22,900 a year, and a family of three can earn up to $29,450.
The impetus for the lawsuit began several years ago when Mr. Levy was a staff lawyer in a Legal Services branch office in southwest Yonkers and noticed that housing agencies handling Section 8 applicants made no effort to help families move into other areas.
Mr. Kirklin, whose law firm provided pro bono services in the lawsuit, said there was the implication in the way that the Section 8 programs were being run that "new neighborhoods might be intimidating to minority applicants who wanted to stay where they were."
 
'Away From Drugs and Crime'
 The two lawyers for the defendants said that premise was contrary to the original purpose of the Federal program, which was started in 1974 to help minority residents improve their lives.
"All people are basically alike," Mr. Levy said. "They want to live in nice neighborhoods away from drugs and crime. Environment takes its toll on kids. The program operates on the assumption that if you give the poor extra purchasing power, if you give them a little boost, they will be able to have a better way of life. And their kids can mix with others who go off to college."
The consent decree is patterned on a 1981 Section 8 settlement in Chicago known as Gautreaux v. Landrieu. A study done in connection with that suit found that families who moved to white middle-class areas found jobs more often than those living in predominantly low-income black areas.
Mr. Levy said that in Yonkers the Section 8 program was used to exacerbate the existing segregation, which was "tragic, just the opposite of the purpose of the program."
Under the consent decree, the plaintiffs will set up an Enhanced Section 8 Outreach Program for clients, which would perform many of the same duties a real estate office does for its customers.
 
A Good Deal vs. a Do-Good Program
 The office, to be in Yonkers, would be financed by the defendants and administered by the Westchester People's Action Coalition, a nonprofit social services agency.
The office's function would be to bring landlords with apartments in nonpoor, nonminority areas into the Section 8 program. Under the consent decree, if the office does not find at least 550 apartments in five years the defendants will no longer have to support the program.
"Landlords are business people, and they will see that the rents can be paid at top rates," Mr. Kirklin said. "These are good people without criminal records. There are a lot of Carol Giddinses out there."
The landlords will be informed that they are not participating in a "do-good" social-action program, but in what Mr. Kirklin called "a good deal," especially at a time when some landlords are having difficulty filling apartments.
Albert A. Annunziata, a spokesman for the Apartment Owners Advisory Council in White Plains, a 400-member organization, called the goals of the outreach office realistic.
"We are talking about market-rate rents, a landlord's dream, especially when some two-bedroom rent-stabilized apartments go for less than $500," he said.
 
'Just a Nice Place to Live'
 The plan -- in contrast to the housing part of the Yonkers desegregation case -- provides incentives for all parties, and therefore "stands a chance of working," said Andrew Beveridge, a Queens College sociologist who was a consultant for the plaintiffs.
Also, Mr. Levy observed that the plan is being implemented by the plaintiffs and not the defendants, thereby increasing its chances of success.
In addition to helping minority residents, the program will try to find apartments for elderly and disabled Section 8 participants.
Ms. Giddins, a 42-year-old secretary who earns $19,000 a year, has become something of a celebrity in her neighborhood. She said: "People keep asking me, 'How did you do this? You mean we can really get out of here?' "
"I tell them we can," said Ms. Giddins, who will begin looking for a new apartment early next year. "We're not looking for Hollywood glamour, just a nice place to live, a safe place."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carol Giddins with her daughter, Lacrecia, in a burned-out hallway at her apartment building in Yonkers. (Susan Harris for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Carol Giddins and her daughter, Lacrecia, eating breakfast before leaving for the day. (Susan Harris for The New York Times) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YONKERS (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BLACKS (IN US); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); SUITS AND LITIGATION; FEDERAL AID (US); RENTING AND LEASING LITIGATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (88%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (88%); JUDGES (88%); REAL ESTATE (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (77%); CITIES (76%); APPROVALS (74%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); CLASS ACTIONS (71%); VIOLENT CRIME (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); 

PERSON: PATTERSON, ROBERT P (JUDGE); BRENNER, ELSA

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



189 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: The Killing Never Ends

BYLINE: By Linda Robinson; Linda Robinson is the Latin America correspondent for U.S. News & World Report and the author of "Intervention or Neglect: The United States and Central America Beyond the 1980's."

 BODY:

UNFINISHED CONQUEST
The Guatemalan Tragedy.
By Victor Perera.
Illustrated. 382 pp. Berkeley:
University of California Press. $27. 
 ARITHMETIC is the simplest way to tell the story of Guatemala. In one five-year counterinsurgency campaign (1978-83) conducted by the army, almost one-third of Guatemala's 85,000 Ixil Maya Indians were wiped out. Since the mid-1960's an estimated 120,000 Guatemalans have been killed and another 46,000 disappeared, according to Guatemalan human rights groups. The indigenous Mayas, most of whom live in the northern and western highlands, have borne the brunt of the violence.
Victor Perera, a writer and journalist whose books include "Rites: A Guatemalan Boyhood," set out in "Unfinished Conquest" to document the calamity that has befallen his native land. By his own admission Mr. Perera, who now lives in California, fails in this task, his quest for facts stymied by fear. Illustrative is his encounter with the mayor of Cotzal, who tells him that 7,500 residents have been killed by the army for their alleged revolutionary activity. Then, in a second meeting with Mr. Perera, the mayor insists that the deaths are entirely the fault of Marxist guerrillas, the changed tale apparently due to a visit from the regional army commander.
That killing on this scale has occurred in Guatemala is accepted as fact by many international human rights organizations. But an exact accounting must await a peace accord between the Government and the guerrillas that would include a public airing of atrocities like the ones already conducted in El Salvador, Chile, Argentina and Brazil. Even now, however, it seems that Guatemala's record is closer to that of Pol Pot's Cambodia and the campaigns to exterminate the Armenians and the Kurds than to the dozens of wars of Guatemala's Latin neighbors. The highland Mayan communities may regenerate quickly, given high birth rates. But the psychological, cultural and political toll is crushing. Mr. Perera's description of it, with a wealth of firsthand and scholarly material, is more than enough to compensate for his self-declared failure to compile the definitive ledger of Guatemala's dead.
As "Unfinished Conquest" makes clear, the atrocities are merely the latest in a long line of horrors visited on Guatemala's indigenous people. The repression began in 1524, when Pedro de Alvarado arrived from Mexico to conquer the highlands for the Spanish crown. In the 1880's his successors took the Mayas' lands to create vast coffee plantations, putting the Indians to work as indentured labor. After a four-century battle the Mayas are still a majority, but they also remain essentially landless and powerless. They have not vanished but they are not much closer to gaining their freedom. Their attempt to fight back with revolution, beginning in the 1960's, was the proximate cause of the most recent depredations unleashed on them.
Without regret or glee Mr. Perera portrays the revolutionaries as failures, seeing in the resurgent Maya-pride movement greater strength for political organization. By telling the stories of real people, Mayas who cling to their traditional gods, their communal ways and their brilliant woven clothing, Mr. Perera has selected the most effective means of conveying the astonishing resilience of Mayan culture. He befriends Mayan women who sustain their offspring by living and scavenging in Guatemala City's dump, after their tiny corn patches in the highlands have been exhausted and their menfolk have died off.
In an effort to convey the impact of the killing on Guatemala, Mr. Perera calculates that it is analogous to a half-million dead and a quarter-million disappeared in the United States. In his analogy, comparable victims of assassination or kidnapping would include Jesse Jackson, William Rehnquist, Donald Trump, Mario Cuomo, Jane Fonda and the editors of The Washington Post and The New York Times -- some 4,000 prominent American citizens and 10,000 students from top universities. Although the violence has claimed proportionately far more Mayas than people of Spanish or mixed descent, no class or ethnic group has remained untouched. Nor is the the killing over: a few months ago the founder of Guatemala's large centrist party, and the runner-up in the last presidential election, Jorge Carpio Nicolle, was stopped on a country road and shot dead by unknown assailants.
Mr. Perera's account is powerful and, equally important, suffused with sympathy -- the kind that only comes from knowing what it is like to live in constant fear surrounded by death. This helps readers to understand the pathology of death that drives such waves of killing, and drives survivors into retribution or helplessness. But on another level the reasons for Guatemala's brutality remain opaque. Because the author does not delve deep for explanations, one is left with the impression that he views conquest and ethnic cleansing as immutable forces of history, like earthquakes. He writes: "The bulk of accountability must once again fall on Guatemala's ladino officer class. The same army officers who see a potential subversive in every Mayan child and adult, regard trees as enemies in league with ambush-minded guerrillas." Similarly, the upper classes of Guatemala respond to their economic imperatives as obediently as bees build their hives. Guatemala is certainly a Manichaean place if ever one existed. But because Mr. Perera does not get inside this half of the country as he does the Mayan half, the dark forces are not illuminated.
This is a pity, in part because as an educated, well-off Guatemalan Mr. Perera might have had valuable insights to share about the elite of his country. Moreover, these insights could have helped to explain what appear to be a few signs of nascent change. Most of the intelligentsia and enlightened businessmen (that is, the modern bourgeoisie rather than the traditional landowners) mustered enough force, in coalition with prominent Mayan leaders, to derail President Jorge Serrano's extraconstitutional power grab this May. Previously, they would have been silent or silenced, killed, driven out of the country.
Nonetheless, this new elite is unlikely to be the engine of redemption in the rural areas. There the army continues to rule over the Mayas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: UNFINISHED CONQUEST: THE GUATEMALAN TRAGEDY (BOOK)

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (54%); 

COUNTRY: GUATEMALA (99%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUATEMALA (99%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); ARMIES (90%); JOURNALISM (78%); GENOCIDE (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (75%); COFFEE (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ROBINSON, LINDA; PERERA, VICTOR

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



190 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 6; Page 86; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: ENDPAPER;
The Peace Deficit

BYLINE: By Bruce Handy; Bruce Handy has written for Spy magazine, "Saturday Night Live" and the Learning Annex catalogue.

 BODY:
The prospect of peace in the Middle East has everyone giddy. So many promises, so many dreams, so many inevitable editorial references to walls "tumblin' down" in Jericho. There are those who have sworn to undermine the agreement between Israel and the P.L.O., but even these extremists seem to cling to a utopian vision of their own -- namely, that the other side will just sort of cheerfully go away, much as future Serbian textbooks will no doubt portray Bosnia's Muslims as having done.
But who speaks for the Middle East status quo? This is no idle question, for 20th-century history proves one thing: that peace can be a mixed blessing. After all, what did we gain from the end of World War I? In the short run we got the Jazz Age, which was much like the 80's, although there were no Armani spats. In the long run we got the Great Depression, which was much like the 90's, except that the unemployed didn't have automatic weapons. Ultimately, we got World War II -- the conclusion of which brought on the cold war and such embarrassments as the Bay of Pigs, My Lai and Jason Robards's performance in "The Day After." 
 Was it only four years ago that we cheered the dismantling of the Berlin wall, naively unalarmed by the sight of frenzied young Germans wielding sledgehammers? Today, of course, we are faced with resurgent neo-Nazism and hate-inspired bloodshed throughout the former, now seemingly not-quite-so-Evil-by-comparison Empire. True, we are no longer as frightened by the threat of nuclear war -- or the threat of having to see Yakov Smirnoff on TV commercials. But as Boris Yeltsin's way with democracy proves every bit the equal of Janet Reno's with fringe religious groups, millions of former Soviet citizens are beginning to believe they were better off under Communism, and tens of thousands of unemployed aerospace workers in Southern California would heartily agree.
A lasting settlement in the Middle East will present its own peculiar problems, including some that even Benjamin Netanyahu and Hamas have probably not foreseen. For instance: Could the United States survive the humiliation of losing to a country named Gaza Strip in some future Olympiad? If peace spreads and Beirut is rebuilt, will editorialists be able to conjure as handy a metaphor for the South Bronx?
There are more immediate dangers, too. Yasir Arafat has already turned up on "Larry King Live"; we can only expect more talk-show appearances as the P.L.O. leader is drawn further into the American orbit. Mary Duffy, a producer who oversees guest bookings for "The Montel Williams Show," offers a professional assessment: "Arafat would scream 'Donahue' to me."
Does that mean he won't get a shot on "Montel"?
"It's just that we would want to approach him from more than a five-minute news package angle," she says. "Our viewers would want to know more about the human side -- how Mr. Arafat would feel about neighborhoods and people and things like that." The spectacle of Arafat baring his human side for Montel can hardly seem far-fetched when even the President of the United States governs by the maxim "Speak quaveringly and carry a big hand-held mike." Perhaps Arafat will be offered his own show ("Yasir!"). He's got an undeniable star quality and appears, for a reformed terrorist, surprisingly cuddly . . . in a gamy, Burgess Meredith sort of way. At the least, it's not hard to imagine his cameos in future "Naked Gun" movies. Is this a future we want?
PALESTINIANS WILL REQUIRE BILLIONS OF dollars in Western investment if they are to make a go of it as a nation. Are they prepared for Lady Footlockers and TCBY's? A spokesman for the Gap will neither confirm nor deny that the clothier has plans to open an outlet in Jericho, admitting only that "we're always considering new markets." If that doesn't give you pause, consider this: Isro-Disney. Just because it didn't work in France doesn't mean it couldn't succeed in Haifa. Think of all the new, free-spending Saudi tourists.
And yet, as ominous as these scenarios are, a dearth of Western investment could be just as destabilizing -- especially if the Palestinian Government is forced to seek alternative forms of revenue. No one wants to see river-boat gambling on the Jordan, let alone a Holy Land Pick 4.
The economic ramifications for the United States are equally perilous. If peace takes hold, large numbers of Israeli emigres might decide to return to their homeland. The resulting exodus would cripple the dial car industry in New York City -- yes, the drivers would be able to raise their children in a happier, safer Israel, but, on Madison Avenue, Conde Nast editors would be left waiting at the curb. And who would move our furniture? Peace will be hardest of all on those whose careers have largely been predicated on Arab-Israeli enmity, like neo-conservative writers and editors (first Communism, now this). What, for instance, will Martin Peretz do? Some fear he might try his hand at a boyhood memoir, or perhaps even a novel -- a sobering thought indeed.
But by far, the most upsetting thing about the Israeli-P.L.O. peace pact is the way it has forced us to rethink long-held assumptions about human behavior. While never exactly welcome, this sort of activity is tolerable in controlled circumstances, like psychotherapy sessions or TV movies about the Jackson family. But when we open the morning paper, all we really want is to enjoy a little Schadenfreude at the expense of Sol Wachtler (or whomever). Israelis making nice with Palestinians, Jordanians and Syrians. . . . What's next, we must now sigh in exasperation, peace in Red Hook? The South Bronx? The cheese department at Zabar's?

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (94%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); GERMANY (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (PLO) PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (90%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (PLO) PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (90%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL MIDDLE EAST (94%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); GERMANY (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); COLD WAR (78%); HAMAS (77%); RELIGION (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); WORLD WAR II (68%); WORLD WAR I (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); INTERVIEWS (62%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (61%); 

PERSON: HANDY, BRUCE BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993



191 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: As U.S. Vote on Trade Pact Nears, Mexicans Are Expressing Doubts

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LEON, Mexico

 BODY:
In the dizzying course of a five-minute conversation on the North American Free Trade Agreement, Jesus Hernandez begins with a great burst of national pride, focused on his shoes.
"See this," the 28-year-old owner of a tiny shoemaking company says, lifting a shiny black exhibit from a friend's workshop table. "The gringos can't do leatherwork like this!" 
 But when prodded a bit about a possible inrush of cheaper mass-produced shoes from Canada and the United States, the glow of satisfaction fades from Mr. Hernandez's face.
 
'We Are Blind Here'
 "The truth is, we do not know what is coming," he says. "Some people say it is going to hurt us, and the leaders here, they do not ask us what we think. We are blind here."
As Mexicans watch the United States anguish over a trade accord that would affect their country far more than either of its wealthier northern neighbors, many express a similar mix of uncertainty and fear.
Such worries would seem to rebut critics in the United States who have described Mexico as the clear beneficiary of the accord. After denying the concerns for months, Mexican officials now say that if Congress rejects the agreement in the vote scheduled for Nov. 17, the opportunity might be lost for a generation.
But the way in which Mexico's concerns are being expressed also underscores the vast differences in political development between this society and the two that would be its partners. By contrast to the tumultuous debate in Canada and the din in the United States, the qualms of Mexicans like Mr. Hernandez are not echoed in infomercials or on the evening news.
For the most part, criticism of the possible effects on Mexico has been reported only in a handful of independent newspapers and on radio news programs and talk shows.
Under pressure from the Government, industries likely to lose jobs under the accord -- big labor-union coalitions and business chambers -- have reiterated confidence in the long-term wisdom of the deal and have said little of their worries for the shorter term.
The Mexican Senate, where the long-ruling party holds 61 of the 64 seats, will merely vote on the agreement after the vote in Washington and will not deliberate in any meaningful way.
According to several public opinion polls, including surveys taken for President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, a big plurality and perhaps a clear majority supports the accord.
Mexico is virtually certain to gain considerable foreign investment under the pact, which would gradually dismantle most barriers to trade and investment between the three countries. Most trade studies also predict that Mexico would gain more jobs than Canada or the United States.
At the same time, however, Mexico is expected to face the greatest short-term job losses, and most surveys indicate that support for the accord has been falling steadily. As the economy struggles through a near-recession and challenges to the agreement grow in the United States, there has also been evidence of a new questioning in Mexico of the terms of the agreement.
 
'Protectionist Attitudes'
 "There is an ambivalence that is starting to emerge," the Trade Secretary, Jaime Serra Puche, said in a recent interview. "In industry and agriculture, people support trade liberalization in general, but not in their own sector. The more protectionist attitudes are gaining weight."
Such comments mark a significant shift after three years of a steady insistence that Mr. Salinas's embrace of the agreement reflected a broad consensus. Although the Government consulted with important business and labor groups during negotiations, such "advisers" never openly challenged the Government's positions or articulated their own. Pro-Government labor unions and business associations generally served to contain dissent.
But as a final decision on the agreement draws nearer, voices are rising in industries likely to be hurt, like textile manufacturers or toy makers or grain farmers.
The central state of Tlaxcala, for instance, has watched textile factories and other businesses vanish since Mexico joined the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in 1986 and began opening its borders to imports.
In Apizaco, for example, a 32-year-old brick maker, Carmelario Vega, suggested that free trade had struck like a mysterious disease.
"Lots of people have lost jobs and they really don't know why," Mr. Vega said. "People are afraid, more than anything because they really don't know what is coming next."
In Leon, the capital of Guanajuato State, the probable effects are mixed. Shoemakers like Mr. Hernandez are likely to face more imports from the United States, in addition to the inexpensive Asian-made shoes that already trouble their lives. Boot makers and vegetable growers will have an easier time exporting their products north.
 
A Steady Drop in Support
 In surveys by Mr. Salinas's polling unit, support for the trade accord in major cities has fallen from 64.3 percent in October 1992 but remains strong: in September, 53.7 percent of those polled said they favored the pact.
Polls taken by a leading independent firm, Market and Opinion Research International, show a sharper drop, from 77 percent support in 1990 to 47 percent earlier this year. The surveys also show that fully half of those polled think that the agreement will benefit the United States more than Mexico, and will make Mexico more dependent on the United States.
To some extent, politicians and political analysts say, Mexicans are challenging the centerpiece of Mr. Salinas's economic strategy since the benefits of his policies have grown more uncertain. Inflation has dropped sharply, to under 9 percent. But growth has slowed, per-capita income is falling again, unemployment is rising and the Government must keep interest rates high to prop up what many economists believe is an overvalued peso.
A contrast remains between more or less scientific measures of the mood and the extent to which worries about the agreement are reflected in public debate. At a news briefing in Mexico City, Deputy Secretary of Agriculture Luis Tellez Kuenzler said, "If you look at the press from August of last year to today, people are not complaining about the free trade agreement."
But a pro-Government briefer at the meeting, Abelardo Sanchez, a leader of the National Agricultural Council, questioned whether the press was reflective of the country's views.
"We don't have good railroads, highways, ports -- how are we going to be able to compete?" Mr. Sanchez asked.
Faced with what they call the impossibility of stopping the agreement in Mexico, some critics have concentrated their efforts in the United States, arguing that democracy and economic justice would be better served if the agreement were rejected or postponed.
While two critics, Adolfo Aguilar Zinser and Jorge G. Castaneda, are important advisers to Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, the leader of the main leftist opposition party, Mr. Cardenas himself has grown steadily more ambiguous.
Mr. Cardenas has in the past sharply criticized the accord, and other leaders of his Democratic Revolutionary Party have been unequivocal in saying the party's two senators will vote against it. Now, mindful of the Government's assertion that he would usher in a wave of anti-Americanism if he won the 1994 presidential election, Mr. Cardenas will not even go that far.
That has left only one organization in all of Mexico devoted to challenging the agreement. In the place of Ross Perot and the A.F.L.-C.I.O., Mexico has the Mexican Action Network, a small union-supported group with an infrastructure consisting of a small office on loan from a leftist labor alliance, three telephone lines and a fax machine.
The group's leader, Berta Lujan, a 40-ish former high school teacher, describes its crusade as "clawing along with our fingernails."
"Whenever they are talking about the free trade agreement, we are there," she says. "They simply have not allowed people to hear us."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers at a tanning factory in Leon, Mexico, sorting and weighing leather used to make tennis shoes. Although most trade studies predict that Mexico would gain more jobs than Canada or the United States, Mexico is expected to face the greatest short-term job losses. Shoemakers, like Guadalupe Hernandez, left, and Carlos Moreno in Leon, are likely to face more imports from the United States, in addition to the inexpensive Asian-made shoes that already trouble their lives. (Photographs by Stephen Ferry for The New York Times)(pg. D9)
 
Map of Mexico showing location of Leon. (pg. D9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; MEXICO; UNITED STATES MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; PUBLIC OPINION ; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; FORECASTS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); RECESSION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (66%); TRENDS (62%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1993



192 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: BALANCED BUDGET GAINING SUPPORT AMONG SENATORS

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5

 BODY:
Conservatives who hate raising taxes and liberals who cannot stand to cut spending have joined to bring the Senate to within a handful of votes of passing a constitutional amendment to require a balanced budget.
Senator Paul Simon, the liberal Democrat from Illinois who is the measure's chief sponsor, is not yet predicting victory in the vote later this month, but he said in an interview that he had detected a gradual increase in support. He has been pushing the measure for several years, and won a promise from the Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell of Maine, a firm opponent of the amendment, for a vote sometime in this Senate session, which may end by Thanksgiving. 
 The deficit issue has forced itself over the years into the consciousness of both the right and the left, and it is good politics to promise to do something about it.
 
Clinton Denounces Amendment
 While most people think that the only way to cope with the deficit is to both raise taxes and cut spending, each wing of this tenuous alliance argues that only the approach the other side dislikes need be used.
But the opponents, led by Senator Robert C. Byrd, the powerful Democrat from West Virginia, got a boost today when President Clinton weighed in on their side. Mr. Clinton denounced the amendment as a "budget gimmick," and said it was so vague that appointed judges would end up making decisions elected lawmakers should take on.
Mr. Clinton's letter to Congressional leaders said the amendment would hurt average American families and require some combination of "huge increases in taxes," "massive reductions in Social Security benefits" and "major cuts in Medicare and Medicaid that would make it impossible to pass meaningful health reform legislation."
 
60 Senators Back Plan
 He said the last effect would be particularly counterproductive because health legislation was "the nation's best hope of bringing down the long-term deficit."
While Presidents have no veto on constitutional amendments, Mr. Clinton's intervention still matters, especially because 16 of the 20 senators who have not announced their position on the measure are Democrats. With 60 supporters identified through public statements and interviews and 20 declared opponents, the backers need only 7 of the undeclared senators to get the two-thirds majority an amendment must have under the Constitution. Opponents need 14 of them to defeat it.
The Senate is expected to vote in about two weeks on the measure, which would require a balanced budget in 1999. The result is likely to be as close as it was in 1986, when the proposal fell short by a single vote; or in 1982 when it passed the Senate with 69 votes, or two to spare, but died in the House.
If the Senate adopts the amendment, an equally close vote is expected in the House. In July 1992 supporters got 280 votes in the House, nine less than they needed. Should both houses adopt the amendment, it would require the approval of the legislatures of 38 states within seven years to become part of the Constitution.
Mr. Simon told the Senate last Monday that the amendment was necessary to force lawmakers "to make some tough decisions."
 
Expecting Close Vote
 Unlike Senator Simon, who favors giving tax increases a major role in balancing the budget, Senator Orrin G. Hatch, a conservative Republican of Utah, asserted in an interview that the amendment would lead to deep and desirable cuts in Federal spending.
Mr. Hatch, the chief Republican sponsor of the measure, argued that in the current political climate -- including election results this week in New Jersey and Virginia where anti-tax voting played a major role -- it will be very hard to find majorities for Mr. Simon's tax increases. He said the constitutional amendment's fate would "come down to one or two votes in the Senate."
Senator Byrd said he was worried that his side would lose. He scoffed at the measure as "political catnip" and despairs of senators who beg him, in his role as chairman of the Appropriations Committee, for money for their states while supporting an amendment that would dry up that spending.
He called the amendment "an economic, fiscal and political calamity in the making." He then added "constitutional" to the list, saying if the measure was adopted it would probably fail to balance the budget, and in so doing would greatly diminish the nation's faith in the Constitution.
 
Likely Targets of Amendment
 Most of these points are familiar. But the health care argument used by Mr. Clinton is a fresh one, introduced earlier this week by Senator Jay Rockefeller, Democrat of West Virginia. He argued that not only the new spending in the Clinton bill but Medicare and Medicaid would be obvious targets for very serious cuts if the amendment were part of the Constitution.
Mr. Rockefeller said, "Congress cannot lie to the American people" and say they can have both a balanced budget and health care legislation. Senator Simon contends that argument is exaggerated and the country could have both.
The Simon amendment states that outlays of Federal money cannot exceed receipts in any fiscal year and that the statutory limit on the national debt cannot be increased. Three-fifths majorities of both houses could override those provisions.
Under the amendment, the President would be required to send a balanced budget to Congress. The measure's provisions could be waived when a declaration of war was in effect or when a joint Congressional resolution was enacted declaring that the country was involved in a military conflict "which causes an imminent and serious military threat to national security."
The three-fifths majorities the amendment speaks of consist of the complete membership of each house, or 60 in the Senate and 261 in the House of Representatives when no seats are vacant. Tax increases and the resolution on military conflict would require majorities of the complete memberships, or 51 in the Senate and 218 in the House.
The amendment would take effect in the 1999 fiscal year that begins on Oct. 1, 1998, or in the first fiscal year beginning two years after ratification of the amendment, whichever comes later. After last summer's deficit reduction legislation, the Congressional Budget Office now projects the deficit for fiscal 1999 to be $223 billion.
The strongest force against the amendment is Senator Byrd himself. The Appropriations Committee chairman can fix fellow senators with an icy stare they take to mean: "If you vote for this terrible amendment, Federal spending in your state will be cut first as we try to balance the budget."
Senator Hatch sees Mr. Byrd as a special problem for his side to overcome. "He does cause some quivering around here," he said.
Lobbying and pressure are expected to intensify in the next couple of weeks. Representative Charles W. Stenholm of Texas, the leader of the effort in the House, said this week: "It's looking pretty good. But I learned after last year not to depend on looks."
To Senator Byrd, of course, last year's defeat of the measure in the House was a cause for hope, not for fear. He said he hoped Congress would be "like one who unwittingly falls into a scheme that would lead to murder, in this case, the murder of the Constitution, but as he gets up to the brink, up to the point of plunging the knife for the fatal thrust, he draws back."

	--------------------	 	
 
MRS. CLINTON ATTACKS MEASURE
 WASHINGTON, Nov. 7 (Special to The New York Times) -- Hillary Rodham Clinton warned the Association of American Medical Colleges today that the balanced budget amendment, along with efforts to limit Medicare and Medicaid spending, were serious threats to their institutions.
Making the case for President Clinton's health plan, Mrs. Clinton said not overhauling the health care system could fuel other, more dangerous efforts to control medical spending, like putting caps on "Medicare expenditures in order to lower the deficit."
"A second and equally threatening development is the balanced budget amendment," she added. Such efforts, she said, would imperil the association's institutions by "financing cuts that will be unpredictable, arbitrary and not replaced with any other funding stream."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; AMENDMENTS, CONSTITUTIONAL; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE BUDGETS (93%); LEGISLATION (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (86%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); VETO (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); JUDGES (65%); MEDICARE (63%); MEDICAID (63%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLYMER, ADAM; SIMON, PAUL (SEN) BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1993



193 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: DIALOGUE: North Korea and the Bomb;
Sanctions Won't Work

BYLINE: By Dave McCurdy; Dave McCurdy, Democrat of Oklahoma, is a member of the House Armed Services Committee.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Still reeling from crises in Somalia and Haiti, the Administration is about to face another foreign policy test, in North Korea. President Clinton said yesterday, "North Korea cannot be allowed to develop a nuclear bomb. We have to be very firm about it." The U.S. must move quickly to avoid a confrontation, but also must temper an impulse to punish North Korea with economic sanctions.
International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors discovered last year that North Korea may have reprocessed plutonium at least three times, not just once, as it has claimed. We have no idea how much plutonium it may have or how close it is to a bomb. The I.A.E.A. has demanded that it be allowed to inspect two possible plutonium waste sites. Pyongyang has refused permission, arguing that the sites are conventional military facilities -- a blatant lie. Calls are mounting for decisive action. 
 U.N.-mandated economic sanctions offer little hope of success. If we go to the Security Council for sanctions and China rejects them, as it may, North Korea will believe that it is off the hook. If sanctions are imposed, North Korea would likely rule out any dialogue until they were removed (and China could allow goods to flow across the border anyway). If sanctions pushed the North to the brink of economic collapse, it would only further the country's instability, which is precisely what South Korea and Japan want to avoid.
Sanctions would probably incite North Korea to hasten its nuclear work. Thus, pressure for the U.S. to bomb the North's nuclear plants would grow -- even though a raid might not disable the plants, would shower radiation across Japan and South Korea and could provoke North Korean retaliation on Seoul. Surgical airstrikes could spark a second Korean war.
Under these conditions, Americans would rightly ask, are we ready to go to war over a threat to Japan and South Korea? If we failed in a confrontation with an African warlord, how can we go toe-to-toe with President Kim Il Sung, who has thrived on brinkmanship for four decades?
A hardline approach would also lead to new arguments with China, South Korea and Japan, all of which prefer diplomacy to threats. Our dedication to nonproliferation cannot succeed if our approach is at odds with the very countries it is designed to protect.
The challenge is to avoid a showdown while holding firmly to our demand for thorough inspections. Our goal should not be to eliminate all risk -- that is impossible -- but to keep the North from obtaining more plutonium and from turning the nuclear material it has into weapons.
What should we do? First, we should not reinvent sanctions that already exist. The U.S., Japan and South Korea already deny North Korea economic and political contacts, and Russia has placed trade on a hard-currency-only basis. We should insist that our allies not invest in the North until the nuclear issue is resolved.
We should consider a policy of "no blame" for past transgressions. North Korean leaders resist inspections for fear of being caught in their lies. We should tell them that, like South Africa, if they came clean, they would face no new sanctions.
We should give them face-saving incentives to allow inspections. We could allow them to inspect U.S. military bases in South Korea, to verify that no tactical nuclear weapons are present. And we should support South Korea's offer to end its joint military exercises with U.S. troops.
Given our pressing domestic issues and foreign policy missteps, the U.S. is in no shape to play nuclear brinkmanship with North Korea. We need to push this looming crisis to an amicable conclusion and move on. In Somalia, the price of failure is 29 American lives; in Korea, that price could be war.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); CHINA (93%); SOMALIA (92%); HAITI (92%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (70%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); CHINA (93%); SOMALIA (92%); HAITI (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (70%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); INSPECTIONS (76%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); TRENDS (64%); 

PERSON: MCCURDY, DAVID (REPR) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1993



194 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Warns North Korea Against Building Atom Bomb

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 7

 BODY:
President Clinton issued a stern warning today to North Korea not to develop a nuclear weapon as it continues to block international inspections of its nuclear sites.
"North Korea cannot be allowed to develop a nuclear bomb," Mr. Clinton said in an interview on the NBC News program "Meet the Press." "We have to be very firm about it." 
 The President also continued to express support for President Boris N. Yeltsin, despite the Russian leader's plans to cancel an early presidential election.
Mr. Clinton declined to say whether he would consider an American air strike against North Korean sites where such a device might be under construction, but he added: "We are consulting with our allies in South Korea and Japan. They are most directly affected by what we do and how we do it."
Asked about the massing of North Korean troops near the border with South Korea, Mr. Clinton warned that any military thrust southward would be met with force by the United States. "We have our soldiers there," he said. "They know that. They know that any attack on South Korea is an attack on the United States."
 
Seeking to Project Firmness
 Tensions in the area have been rising since North Korea announced its intention this spring to pull out of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. A deadline expired on Monday for North Korea to allow inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency to return to sites. Responding to the standoff, American officials have sought to project firmness without forcing North Korea into a corner. And Mr. Clinton's comments this morning seemed in keeping with this strategy.
On Russia, Mr. Clinton reiterated his support for President Yeltsin, though Administration officials said they were unsure of the Russian leader's motive in announcing his intention to cancel an early presidential election in June. President Clinton said that of Mr. Yeltsin: "As long as he is promoting democracy, as long as he's promoting human rights, as long as he's promoting reform, I think the United States should support him. He has been brave and consistent."
Mr. Yeltsin surprised Administration officials on Saturday when he told Russian newspaper editors that he preferred to serve out his current five-year term, which ends in 1996, and not run for re-election.
 
Seeking an Explanation
 Administration officials, including Thomas R. Pickering, the United States Ambassador to Russia, have not yet spoken to Mr. Yeltsin or any of his top advisers to obtain an explanation of his remarks.
Mr. Yeltsin's comments suggest he is reneging on the pledge he grudgingly made in September, when he dissolved Parliament, to hold presidential elections six months after Russian voters elect a new Parliament and vote on a new constitution on Dec. 12.
Sergei B. Stankevich, a senior adviser to Mr. Yeltsin, was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying the Russian leader believed his authority would be weakened if presidential elections were held so soon after a new constitution took effect. A draft of the constitution has a provision stating the presidential elections cannot be held before 1996.
Administration officials said Mr. Yeltsin may have been signaling his preference to voters on the issue before the constitutional referendum. They also said he may have been indicating his preference to potential lawmakers who may have to deal with the issue once they have been elected.
"While we don't know exactly what lies behind President Yeltsin's latest statements, some Russians are speculating that he is keeping his options open on how best to be sure that he will be able to deal from strength with the new Parliament once it comes in," said a senior Administration official who spoke on condition of anonymity.
In his interview, Mr. Yeltsin said he would not run again and suggested that he was tiring of the pressures, saying: "Everybody knows how many blows of fate I have already suffered. It is too much for one man."
As he has in recent weeks, Mr. Clinton refused to rule out the use of force to restore Haiti's exiled President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide. Administration officials have been frustrated by their inability to persuade Haiti's military leaders to abide by an agreement they signed in July that would restore Father Aristide, Haiti's first freely elected President.
Mr. Clinton said today that he preferred to increase economic pressure on Haiti's military leaders and their supporters by having other nations follow the United States' lead and freeze their financial assets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (72%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (54%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (54%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA; RUSSIA UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); INSPECTIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); POLITICS (79%); BOMBINGS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1993



195 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
The President accused unions of applying "naked pressure" to kill the free-trade agreement. He said businesses that stand to benefit from expanded trade have not done enough to convince workers that the agreement is a good idea. [Page A1.] 
 Many Mexicans express a mix of uncertainty and fear over Nafta that mirrors the debate in the U.S., rebutting critics who say Mexico is a clear beneficiary of the pact. [A1.]
Ross Perot tuned up for Tuesday's debate with Vice President Gore, taunting the President for sending "somebody else to do the dirty work" and saying Nafta would worsen Mexican poverty. [D9.]
Dissatisfaction over Tokyo Stock Exchange policies has grown as Japanese stocks have taken another steep dive. [D1.]
Israel and Jordan have agreed to "understandings" on economic ties, The Jerusalem Post reported. [A3.]
 
The Economy
The Senate is within a handful of votes of approving a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget, with conservatives and liberals joining forces to support the proposal. [A1.]
 Two drugs used to treat heart attacks show little or no benefit in preventing death, and a third shows only a small benefit, according to the largest study ever of heart-attack patients. [B10.]
 
The Media Business
QVC Network is considering a higher bid for Paramount Communications following Viacom's move Saturday to sweeten its takeover offer to $10.1 billion. [D8.]
If BellSouth agrees to invest in QVC's bid for Paramount, it would give the company a shot at the programming it desires for its fiber optic network. [D1.]
Forbes has become the leader in magazine ad pages under the stewardship by the sons of Malcolm S. Forbes, who have also begun new magazines and embarked on custom textbook publishing. [D1.]
ABC is skimming through the waters of the new prime-time season, while NBC is moderately buoyant, Fox is treading water and CBS is looking for a buoy. Bill Carter: Television. [D6.]
The Daily News has enlisted a cow as it competes against New York Newsday in a television and radio advertising campaign estimated to cost $1 million. [D6.]
Brazil's press has grown into a force for honesty in government, producing Latin America's feistiest journalism. [D6.]
Bill and Hillary have lashed out at Harry and Louise, the stars of commercials opposing the Administration's health care plan, but the ads' creator is unapologetic. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D7.]
 
Companies
Gerber Products' drive to enter Poland is a success, but two years after it bought an out-of-the-way plant in an untapped market, the hard part is just beginning. [A1.]
A.T.& T. may be close to forming a venture with state-owned phone companies in France and Germany that would offer one-stop shopping for companies linking offices across the Atlantic. [D1.]
Prodigy is rededicating itself to the proposition that the world's biggest computer company, I.B.M., and a large retailer, Sears, can succeed in selling on-line computer services to consumers. [D1.]
U.S. oil companies are cutting their spending for oil exploration and development, and an increasing percentage of the money that remains is being shifted to projects overseas. [D3.]
 
Today's Columns
The bond market promises a bumpy ride as traders and investors grapple with discomforting economic data and a quarterly Treasury auction. Jonathan Fuerbringer: Credit Markets. [D5.]
A batch of burned lasagna inspired a healthy snack, baked pasta chips, that won a patent. Sabra Chartrand: Patents. [D2.]
Many investors consider radio stations bargains, noting that ad revenue is approaching record levels. Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (54%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (76%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: QVC INC (82%); VIACOM INC (54%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (76%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); LIBERALISM (74%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); BUDGETS (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); HEALTH CARE (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (68%); FIBER OPTICS (65%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (64%); RADIO ADVERTISING (63%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (63%); TEXTBOOKS (62%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1993



196 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Spoiling to Debate Gore, Perot Puts Up His Dukes

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla., Nov. 7

 BODY:
Tuning up for Tuesday's debate with Vice President Al Gore, Ross Perot taunted President Clinton today for sending "somebody else to do the dirty work" and asserted that the proposed North American Free Trade Agreement not only would destroy American sovereignty but also worsen Mexican poverty.
"I want to know how a President of the United States can be for that," Mr. Perot demanded during a two-hour rally here that was attended by 3,500 cheering, whooping Perot partisans. 
 Then, obviously delighted that his dogged nine-month campaign against the trade pact and the Washington establishment had put him once again in the national political limelight, he predicted defeat for the pact and shouted confidently, "How'd you like to have Al Gore's job on Tuesday night?"
Again the crowd, mostly drawn from Tampa's manufacturing center and outlying citrus and vegetable regions, rose, whistling and hooting derisively.
 
A Telling T-Shirt
 "God, I love the man!" Mariam Lancaster, a retired restaurant owner, shouted above the uproar.
Clad in a bright "Perot for President" T-shirt, she had driven to Tampa from Orlando to attend the event, the 92d political rally held by Mr. Perot since January. Like many Perot supporters around the country, she has spent much of her time since the 1992 Presidential election, in which Mr. Perot ran a strong third, trying to build up the Perot political organization, United We Stand America.
But for all the applause and enthusiasm here this afternoon, there was little substantively new in Mr. Perot's 90-minute attack on the proposed trade agreement. And while the crowd was enthusiastic, it did not fill the 5,000-seat fairgrounds fieldhouse, a measure, perhaps, of the fact that many Tampa-area residents believe the pact would be a boon to port business here.
Mr. Perot restated his contention that the pact would cause American industry and agriculture to flee south with "a great sucking sound" toward cheaper labor, and he again asserted that American companies that have already moved to Mexico have done little but exploit Mexican labor and violate Mexican environmental laws.
 
Jagged Edge to Remarks
 But his attack on the President was notably sharp-edged and personal, as though he sensed a political crack in the White House armor. He went beyond his patented one-liners, those verbal zingers that White House aides contend are increasingly seen by voters as entertaining but little more.
He predicted that the trade pact would be defeated so long as the Perot forces kept up the pressure until the crucial Nov. 17 vote on the pact's ratification in the House of Representatives. That defeat, he said, would teach Mr. Clinton "to stop chasing cars."
Next he accused the President of cowardice by refusing to engage in debate himself. "How many people have you known who, when push came to shove, got somebody else to do the dirty work for them?" he asked.
 
'Hear That, White House?'
 Looking directly into the bank of television cameras recording his speech, he warned Mr. Clinton that there were 85 million people who potentially stood to lose their jobs should the trade proposal pass, an estimate disputed by leading economists.
"Eighty-five million people can elect anybody -- anybody!" he added, his Texas twang rising. "Do you hear that, White House?"
Mr. Perot closed with a bit of stage drama reminiscent of the furor he caused in the Presidential campaign when he said the Vietnamese had in 1969 sent a team of Black Panther members to kill him.
Shortly before coming to Tampa, Mr. Perot told the crowd, he had been warned by the police that there were rumors that he might be the target of an assassination attempt by "a Mafia-like group in favor of the free trade agreement." Many friends, he added, had urged him to cancel the rally.
 
Martyr to His Cause
 "But I never considered it," he said. "I thought about the people who make our country go. We will never waver until Nafta is stopped. So here we are. And if something should happen, don't spend a minute mourning. As Step 1, make sure you stop Nafta, with or without me."
Then he headed off the stage as the band broke into "When the Saints Go Marching In." But suddenly he wheeled, snatched the microphone again and shouted, "We're going to go marching down Pennsylvania Avenue one day."
The crowd roared.
A spokesman for the Department of Justice, Carl Stern, said tonight that a third-hand report of a death threat against Mr. Perot was passed on to the Tampa police and to the Secret Service by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Mr. Stern said the F.B.I. office in Los Angeles was contacted by a telephone tip line in Alberquerque, N.M., which had been called by a man who said he had heard of the plot from another man who had recently been released from a Mexican prison. The ex-prisoner had heard that a hit squad of six Cubans had been recruited to assassinate Mr. PerotMr. Stern said. The threat's legitimacy has not been confirmed, he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ross Perot at an appearance yesterday at a rally in Tampa again criticized President Clinton's free trade agreement (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (95%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MEXICO; CANADA UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (95%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEBATING; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (53%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (53%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (50%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; PEROT, ROSS; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) AL GORE (91%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1993



197 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Puerto Rico Debates Statehood or Status Quo as a Vote Nears

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R.

 BODY:
Should Puerto Rico petition to become the 51st state, remain an American commonwealth or proclaim its independence? After decades of debate and months of intense campaigning in every corner of the island, voters here are about to declare their preference in a historic plebiscite whose result the White House has pledged to support.
For the 3.7 million residents of this lush Caribbean island, the vote on status, scheduled for Nov. 14, hinges on questions both of cultural identity and material well-being. Gov. Pedro Rossello and his New Progressive Party say statehood will bring a financial bonanza. But the opposition Popular Democratic Party argues that statehood will force a mixed-race, Spanish-speaking society to renounce everything that defines its character. 
 Recent polls show statehood and commonwealth running about even, with about one-fifth of all voters saying they are still undecided. Independence, the third option on the ballot, is supported by about 5 percent of the voters and is not considered a realistic course for an island that has lived under American rule since the end of the Spanish-American War in 1898.
 
Happy With the Status Quo
 "I'm voting for statehood in order to tell the American people that the people of this island want to be first-class American citizens," said Esteban Ramos, a teacher. "It is time for Puerto Rico to be decolonized."
But supporters of commonwealth say they are happy with the status quo, which has given Puerto Rico a standard of living that, while only half that of the United States, is higher than that of any country in Latin America. "If things ain't broke, why fix them?" asked Angel Colon, a 41-year-old social services worker.
Under the commonwealth arrangement that has been in place here for more than 40 years, residents of Puerto Rico cannot vote in Federal elections, but also do not pay Federal taxes. In addition, Federal health and welfare payments to poor and elderly residents of the island are capped at levels significantly below what Puerto Rico would receive as a state.
The 2.6 million Puerto Ricans living on the United States mainland, on the other hand, have the same rights, benefits and obligations as other American citizens.
 
Congress Must Approve
 "I know the difference between statehood and what we have now because I was born in Connecticut and lived there until I was 15 years old," said Carmen Torres Colon, a 33-year-old housewife. "I know that schools and health care are better there, that there are more opportunities, and that's what I want here for my kids."
The vote is the first on Puerto Rico's status since 1967, when commonwealth status won handily, taking 60 percent of the vote.
The plebiscite is nonbinding, meaning that even if statehood wins a narrow majority, Congress would still have to approve the formal petition to join the union that Mr. Rossello has promised to submit. That process promises to be long and complicated, with the issues of language and increased Federal assistance leading the list of thorny questions to be resolved by reluctant members of both houses.
Though former Presidents George Bush, Ronald Reagan and Gerald R. Ford are featured in television advertisements here that urge voters to choose statehood, President Clinton has taken a neutral position, promising only to support whatever decision Puerto Ricans reach.
All autumn long, pro-statehood caravans have been roaming Puerto Rico, blaring the message over loudspeakers that "statehood signifies equality." Commonwealth backers have responded by plastering this island with posters proclaiming that only the status quo offers "the best of two worlds."
Addressing coffee growers outside the mountain town of Aibonito, Senator Miguel Hernandez Agosto, president of the Popular Democratic Party, argued that commonwealth status allowed "us to conserve our traditions and character as a people" while enjoying the benefits of American citizenship. Under statehood, he said as his listeners nodded in agreement, Puerto Ricans would "gradually lose our language and our identity" through assimilation into a larger English-speaking society.
But statehood supporters, especially those who were born on the American mainland or have lived there, scoff at predictions that their language and culture will disappear if Puerto Rico enters the union.
"Why should anything be any different?" Aurea Rivera de Miro, a 35-year-old school supervisor, asked while attending a rally for statehood in the town of Aguas Buenas. "I'll keep on talking both languages, just like I did when I lived in New Jersey."
Seeking to draw on other cultural symbols close to the hearts of the populace, Mr. Hernandez Agosto has also been warning audiences that Puerto Rico would no longer be allowed to have its own Olympic team if it enters the union.
Anti-statehood forces have emphasized that if Puerto Rico became a state, it would have to relinquish a system of special tax incentives that are the backbone of the local economy. To encourage American corporations to create jobs in Puerto Rico, Section 936 of the Internal Revenue Code permits subsidiaries of American companies to shelter from Federal taxes all profits made here.
As a result, commonwealth and independence backers say, Puerto Rico would inevitably be reduced to "welfare statehood" if it entered the union. In advertisements that argue "statehood will cost you," the Popular Democrats say that property, gas, liquor and sales taxes will have to be raised to pay for the loss of revenues contributed by Section 936 companies.
Governor Rossello has accused his opponents of telling "tall tales." He says that Section 936 has outlived its usefulness and that only statehood can promote further economic growth. His party's radio spots even talk of a "statehood bonus" that would be paid to poor Puerto Ricans under the earned-income credit provision of the Federal tax code.
"We feel we can guarantee that Puerto Rico will not pay more than it pays now," Mr. Rossello said in a recent interview.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Pedro Rossello encouraging Puerto Ricans to support statehood for the island in a plebiscite. (Cindy Karp for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PUERTO RICO (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: POPULAR DEMOCRATIC PARTY (PUERTO RICO); NEW PROGRESSIVE PARTY (PUERTO RICO)

ORGANIZATION: POPULAR DEMOCRATIC PARTY (PUERTO RICO); NEW PROGRESSIVE PARTY (PUERTO RICO)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PUERTO RICO UNITED STATES (97%); PUERTO RICO (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STATEHOOD (US); REFERENDUMS; PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT REFERENDUMS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US TERRITORIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PETITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); TRENDS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); AGING (50%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSSELLO, PEDRO (GOV); ROHTER, LARRY PEDRO ROSSELLO (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1993



198 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Deep, Painful Descent of Tokyo Stocks

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 7

 BODY:
With the Japanese stock market having taken another steep dive in the last two weeks and share prices in the fourth year of a deep overall decline, dissatisfaction over the Tokyo Stock Exchange's policies is growing.
At the heart of the market's drop, analysts say, are the nation's persistent recession, plummeting corporate profits, a mounting toll of bad loans by banks and the near-abandonment of stocks by small investors. 
 The stock market has been perceived as so unattractive that although Americans have been pouring tens of billions of dollars into mutual funds that invest overseas, only a trickle of that money has come to Japan. That is surprising, given that Tokyo has the second-largest market in the world, after the New York Stock Exchange.
 
The Power of Fear
 But some experts say that outmoded attitudes at the Tokyo Stock Exchange, a meddlesome Government and inadequate order systems have contributed to the lack of confidence. In particular, experts say, the exchange's policies have kept frightened individual investors away, and that absence has inhibited recovery.
The exchange says it is trying to help, but admits it has had little success. "Increasing individual participation is the main concern of the Tokyo Stock Exchange at the moment," said Yoshiaki Kaneko, who left the Finance Ministry to become the exchange's managing director later this month. "That will contribute to stability in the market. What we're trying to do is increase the attraction of the stocks themselves."
Mr. Kaneko said, for instance, that the exchange is urging companies to increase their stingy dividends, reduce the minimum number of shares an investor must purchase and provide better information about their finances. Companies, though, have been in no mood to comply.
The problems have been highlighted in recent weeks by one of the largest new listings of a company in a decade. On Oct. 26, the Government-controlled East Japan Railway, known as JR East, made its debut. The listing had been postponed for more than a year and had been eagerly awaited, as officials hoped to use the offering both to raise cash and give the market a psychological lift.
By most accounts, though, it became a fiasco that helped send the market on its latest plunge. In the less than two weeks since, the Nikkei index of 225 issues has lost more than 8 percent of its value.
The Government sold half of the four million shares in the giant railroad at an auction that put the price at 380,000 yen a share, the equivalent of $3,518. Some criticized the auction process, because it left more than 10,000 individual investors each owning just one share.
When the shares were formally listed, individual investors who had been frustrated with their meager allotments bid lustily for more. The exchange could not deal with the orders, and so could not set a price until nearly 40 minutes after it closed for the day. The price was then put at 600,000 yen each.
Some thought that looked too good. The next morning, the small investors whom the Government and the exchange had been hoping to attract as stable, long-term stockholders placed waves of sell orders. The exchange suspended trading that day and the next, making it difficult for most of those who wanted to take profits to do so.
 
A Four Years
 The price of JR East shares has steadily fallen since, to 485,000 yen on Friday, the equivalent of $4,491. The Nikkei index closed Friday at 18,590.46 points.
[The Nikkei index gained 21.60 points in trading Monday morning, to 18,612.06 at midday, up 0.12 percent.]
Since the end of 1989, despite occasional upswings, the Nikkei has lost more than half its value from its peak -- more than $3 trillion.
The Tokyo Stock Exchange blamed its computer systems for the halts in trading, and this angered some experts. The major brokerage houses never criticize the Tokyo exchange in public, since it is regarded as virtually an arm of the powerful Finance Ministry -- which provides the exchange's top executives. But they came as close as they could when they issued a statement saying they had asked the exchange to insure that such foul-ups do not recur.
"In my view, the exchange has not been innovative enough in developing its technology," said Shoichi Royama, dean of the economics department at Osaka University and an expert on financial markets. "The problems with JR East are just symptoms. I'm not astonished."
The problems and the subsequent decline in the value of both JR East and the general market have embarrassed the Government and the exchange. Not least, this has complicated efforts by public companies and brokerage houses to reopen the exchange to more new issues.
Three years ago, the Finance Ministry decreed a near-halt to new listings on the Tokyo exchange, in one of many failed attempts to lift stock prices. It was hoped that a successful JR East listing would once again permit the market to receive a steady flow of new issues.
In 1989, for instance, before the decline began, Japanese companies raised 5.8 trillion yen from new offerings on the Tokyo exchange, the equivalent of $53.7 billion. Last year, the figure fell to four billion yen, or $37 million, and will be higher this year largely because of the JR East offering.
"I'm sure there is some concern about the computer problems -- no doubt about it," Mr. Kaneko said. "But we are still analyzing the situation."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 9020 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485112 COMMUTER RAIL SYSTEMS (53%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

COMPANY: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); EAST JAPAN RAILWAY CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS STOCK EXCHANGES (95%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); BONDS (71%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1993



199 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Health care commercials bring a scolding from the White House, as well as a lot of attention.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
THEODORE ROOSEVELT assaulted the "malefactors of great wealth." Franklin D. Roosevelt inveighed against three Republican isolationists with the mellifluous names of "Martin, Barton and Fish." Spiro T. Agnew condemned the "nattering nabobs of negativism."
And what has the Clinton Administration chosen to attack? Bill and Hillary are lashing out at television commercials starring a couple named Harry and Louise. The couple's creator is, it turns out, bemused -- but unapologetic. 
 Those hoping the White House was condemning the Taster's Choice coffee couple will be disappointed. Instead, Harry and Louise appear in spots sponsored by the Health Insurance Association of America. The trade group, representing more than 300 health insurance companies, is spending $6.5 million on a campaign questioning the Clintons' health care plan.
The commercials are produced by Goddard-Clausen/First Tuesday, an agency with offices in Malibu and Sacramento, Calif., that specializes in policy issue advertising. They feature an actor and actress at a softly lit kitchen table, going over a stack of medical bills and earnestly raising objections to the changes sought by the plan.
"Having choices we don't like is like no choice at all," Louise says in one spot. Her glum mate replies, "They choose," to which she responds, "We lose."
Hillary Rodham Clinton, in a speech Nov. 1, decried the commercials, mocking their "homey kitchen" approach and accusing the association of "great lies."
"They have the gall to run TV ads that there is a better way," she said, "the very industry that has brought us to the brink of bankruptcy because of the way they have financed health care."
Two days later, President Clinton echoed his wife's ad bashing. "You need to know what is fueling these television commercials," he said, adding, "There's a lot of money in the health care system that doesn't have a rip to do with health care."
The First Couple's castigations were unorthodox, but in character. After all, this Administration came to power largely through a shrewd use of the so-called new media like MTV and talk shows. Since people talk about whatever they watch on television -- programming or advertising -- commercials are as much a component of the new media milieu as Tabitha Soren or Larry King.
"It's not often that one is scolded by the First Lady," Ben Goddard, president and partner of Goddard-Clausen/First Tuesday, said in a telephone interview last week after the Clintons landed their one-two punches.
He recalled dryly that he was "made aware fairly quickly of her interest in Harry and Louise" while he was "on a conference call with the client."
"Someone came into the room," he continued, "and announced she was attacking us even as we spoke."
"It's understandable political strategy on their part; it's classic Carville strategy to launch frontal attacks on opponents and try to back them off," he said, referring to James Carville, the consultant who helped lead the Clinton election effort.
Mr. Goddard writes and directs all the commercials for Goddard-Clausen/First Tuesday, which was formed in 1989 by the merger of his agency, First Tuesday, with one in Sacramento owned by Richard Clausen. Mr. Goddard described himself as a Democrat who has always worked for Democratic candidates, but added, "That doesn't mean I only agree with Democrats."
David Beiler, senior editor at Campaigns & Elections, a political advertising trade publication in Washington, praised a commercial Mr. Goddard produced in 1982 for John Melcher, a Democratic Senator from Montana who was besieged by an expensive campaign waged by the National Conservative Political Action Committee, declaring him "too liberal for Montana."
Mr. Goddard counterattacked with what is famous in political advertising circles as the "talking cows" commercial. One cow spoke sympathetically of "Doc Melcher" -- the Senator was a veterinarian -- while the other suggested that outsiders had been "stepping in what they have been trying to sell."
"A branding iron branded a logo into a piece of leather," Mr. Beiler said admiringly. "It was really cute."
And Senator Melcher won re-election.
Mr. Goddard described a commercial he created "at the height of the Reagan era" for the Democratic National Committee, in which "an elephant destroyed a china shop" -- an allusion to a controversy over Nancy Reagan's purchase of expensive White House china during a recession.
"Nancy Reagan didn't attack us," he said slyly.
Though Mr. Goddard said he had no plans to have animals, talking or otherwise, join Harry and Louise in the kitchen, he produced another commercial last week for the health insurance association and is working on one more that will start running before Thanksgiving.
Last week was a hectic one for Mr. Goddard and Mr. Clausen for reasons apart from the Clintons' criticisms. The Malibu office was evacuated because of the fires there. And the agency is opening an office in Washington.
It will be, Mr. Goddard promised, "more than a stone's throw from the White House."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HEALTH INSURANCE ASSN OF AMERICA HEALTH INSURANCE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEALTH INSURANCE ASSN OF AMERICA HEALTH INSURANCE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; ADVERTISING INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (74%); CONFERENCE CALLS (60%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1993



200 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Oil Companies Shifting Exploration Overseas

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
As United States oil companies continue to cut their spending for oil exploration and the development of existing oilfields, an increasing percentage of the money that remains is being shifted to projects overseas.
A report to be released today by the American Petroleum Institute at its annual convention in Chicago shows that $5.3 billion was spent for exploration in 1992, a 29 percent decline from the $7.4 billion spent in 1991. 
 There was a huge drop in the amount for domestic exploration, which fell 44 percent to $1.8 billion -- one of the lowest levels in recent times -- from $3.2 billion in 1991. Annual spending for American exploration ranged from $3 billion to $4 billion in the 1987-91 period.
 
 
Foreign Exploration
 But spending for foreign exploration fell just 21 percent in 1992 from the year before, totaling $3.4 billion compared with $4.3 billion. As a percentage of all spending for exploration, the amount spent in foreign countries rose to 64 percent last year, up from 59 percent in 1991 and 51 percent in 1990.
The figures reflect a trend that began in the late 1980's, when oil companies began to rein in their exploration divisions. Many of these units had drilled a number of expensive wells that often came up dry.
The focus now is on areas where oil has already been found, in fields in Russia, Kazakhstan, parts of the Middle East, the Pacific Rim and Africa. And the percentage of money spent overseas is expected to rise rapidly when companies like Chevron, Amoco and Texaco gear up for huge drilling efforts in Russia that are expected to consume billions of dollars a year.
 
 
Properties and Leases
 The petroleum institute, a trade, lobbying and research group for the oil industry, also found that the share of money spent on acquiring properties and leases had shifted greatly toward foreign countries.
The report found that 14 oil companies with operations mostly in the United States -- in contrast to huge international companies like Mobil, Exxon, Texaco and Chevron -- have also shifted exploration efforts overseas.
Until 1991, for example, the 14 mostly domestic companies spent more than half of their money drilling for oil in the United States. As domestic oilfields have become less productive, these companies have spent more than half of their exploration capital in foreign countries.
The 14 domestic companies were Amerada Hess, Amoco, ARCO, Ashland Oil, Kerr-McGee, Maxus Energy, Murphy Oil, Oxy USA, Oryx Energy, Pennzoil, Phillips Petroleum, Shell Oil, Sun, and Unocal.
In the United States, large areas off the coast of California and the East Coast have been put off limits for exploration because of environmental concerns.
 
 
Occidental's Strategy
 Dave Martin, the president of the Occidental Oil and Gas Corporation, a unit of Occidental Petroleum, said in a meeting with analysts on Friday that even though it was still economical to keep drilling for oil and gas in the company's fields in the United States, more money was being sent overseas in places like Yemen, Russia and Ecuador.
Occidental expects its oil production in the United States to remain at about 61,000 barrels a day, while its output in foreign countries grows from 165,000 barrels a day to 202,000 barrels by 1995.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Looking for Oil: Exploration Costs" shows the amound spent on oil exploration in the United States and abroad from '81-'92. (Source: American Petroleum Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); HES (NYSE) (51%); OXY (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (50%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); KAZAKHSTAN (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); OCCIDENTAL OIL & GAS CORP (60%); HESS CORP (51%); SHELL OIL CO (51%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (50%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (91%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (91%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); KAZAKHSTAN (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EXPLORATION OF RESOURCES OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXPLORATION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); TRENDS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1993

 
