

201 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: In Tough Times, Weicker Speaks and Gloom Fills Hartford

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Feb. 5

 BODY:
With the prospect of another bitter fight over Connecticut's budget before them, many lawmakers here seemed glum and guarded today as they waited for Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. to deliver his State of the State address.
Even the opening prayer, delivered by a Senate chaplain, was bleak. "This day is a little less bright because of the clouds of uncertainty that hang over both chambers," said the chaplain, the Rev. Joseph A. Devine, just before the Governor stepped to the podium. 
 And when the speech was over, legislators gave it mixed reviews.
 
'Made the Right Move'
 Many said it was a relief that the Governor had not proposed any new taxes but that they did not necessarily support the cuts he specified, such as shrinking benefits for many state workers and retirees and slashing state aid to nursing homes, cities and towns. All General Assembly members face re-election this year.
"The Governor has made the right move in saying he's going to live within the fiscal resources of the State of Connecticut," said Senator James H. Maloney, a Danbury Democrat who opposed the income tax enacted last year to help bridge the budget deficit. "I only wish he had made that decision last year."
Mr. Maloney said he thought the budget's priorities needed to be realigned. "Where it needs work," he said, "is that the cuts are in the wrong places -- to services, cities and towns. As an alternative, he has to look at administrative cuts and cuts in overhead costs."
 
Angry Interest Groups
 Some legislators referred to the $8.07 billion budget plan as "facing reality," yet they were bracing for yowls of opposition from those who would be affected by the proposed $1.1 billion in spending cuts.
"There's no interest group in the State of Connecticut that is not going to be calling us up," said Senator Kenneth L. Przybysz, a vice chairman of the Appropriations Committee. "There isn't anything that people won't scream about. I'm just thinking of all the work that has to be done."
Most legislators seemed eager to avoid the kind of protracted battle between the legislative and executive branches that dragged on through most of last summer before a budget was adopted that included more than $1 billion in cuts and a 4.5 percent tax on personal income, the state's first.
"This is a very realistic appraisal of the state's circumstances," said Representative Gary Le Beau, a Democrat from East Hartford.
"Many people feel that if any good has come out of this recession," said the Senate majority leader, Cornelius O'Leary, "it is the creation of fertile ground for the elimination of many of the sacred cows that have been grazing on the state budget. I wish some of these cuts had been made last year, and I don't agree with all of his priorities. But I urge this budget's passage, and then let's work to modify it."
 
Woes of Poor Cities
 Even among legislators from the state's poorest cities, where proposed cuts in welfare could have the greatest impact, the mood seemed more resigned than angry. "I expected it to happen, given the situation we find ourselves in," said Representative William Dyson, an eight-term Democrat from New Haven. "It's reality being presented to us in such a way that we can't deny it."
Lobbyists were out in force, many of them criticizing the cuts that Mr. Weicker proposed.
"He said his No. 1 priority is creation of jobs," said Lloyd Novick, who lobbies on behalf of nonprofit nursing homes. "But at the same time, he orders a $100 million cut that will eliminate 3,000 jobs in nursing homes. Our membership sees this as an abandonment of the frail elderly."
As he spoke, a man wearing an anti-income tax sandwich board stepped silently along the corridor outside the House chamber, where knots of people stood discussing the Governor's speech.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L; WEICKER, LOWELL P JR (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



202 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2436 words

HEADLINE: White House Race Is Recast: No Kremlin to Run Against

SERIES: After the Cold War -- Fifth of six articles.

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5

 BODY:
With the cold war's end, the whole terrain of American politics is undergoing fundamental change, from the kinds of issues that preoccupy voters and candidates to the balance between Congress and the White House to the relative strength of the Republican and Democratic parties.
The evidence is just beginning to come in. But it seems probable that the Presidency will lose some of the clout it has won at the expense of Capitol Hill over the last four decades, that domestic affairs will resume their normal place at the center of American politics and that the Republican Party will have difficulty sustaining its recent surge. 
 All that and more probably lies ahead, even though for all but the oldest Americans it is hard to imagine American politics without the cold war.
 
Leftist Views Eclipsed
 "It was the defining issue in our political discourse and public policy from 1947 until last year," said Richard Holbrooke, a former Assistant Secretary of State. "It made 'national security' the justification for everything -- the interstate highway system, the National Defense Education Act, the Vietnam War, the foreign aid program.
"J. William Fulbright used it to sell his scholarships and J. Edgar Hoover used it to sell his wiretaps."
As the nation turned virulently anti-Communist, socialism in all its forms was shunned like the plague. Programs such as national health care and broader trade-union rights nearly vanished from the screen of American politics. With rare exceptions, almost every successful national politician stood in the center or the right.
Every President from Harry Truman to George Bush -- Democrats like Lyndon B. Johnson and Jimmy Carter as well as Republicans like Richard M. Nixon and Ronald Reagan -- sought to toe the hard line. The hard anti-Communist stance became as institutionalized at the White House as "Hail to the Chief" and the officer carrying the briefcase holding the nuclear-weapons codes.
But now all that has changed, and there could be no better evidence than the opening weeks of the 1992 Presidential campaign. Except for President Bush, none of the candidates have any significant foreign-policy credentials, and the rest of them are attacking the President for his. A governor, a former governor, two senators, a former senator and a newspaper columnist constitute the field of challengers. For the first time in decades, knowledge of the rest of the world seems to count for very little. In some ways provincialism may even be an asset.
In other years, hopefuls like Michael S. Dukakis or Jimmy Carter who had spent their careers on domestic questions surrounded themselves with prominent foreign-policy advisers and called foreign-policy conferences to show they cared. But this time, no one is even bothering. Indeed, the President's challengers are trying, with varying degrees of emphasis, to turn Mr. Bush's lifelong fascination with foreign affairs into a liability, a sign of his indifference to America's everyday concerns.
Stephen Hess of the Brookings Institution, an experienced analyst of campaigns, sees Mr. Bush, a man whose attitudes were formed in the cold war years, as "the only candidate who is really trying to hold back the tide from the left and the right that is turning the country rapidly inward."
 
The Policies
Jobs, Jobs, Jobs? That's Right
 The emphasis on domestic affairs developed even as the world went through its most convulsive changes since the 1950's. And it developed within a year of the allied triumph in the Persian Gulf -- a reminder, it might have been thought, that a President's foreign-policy skills can be useful, even in the post-postwar era.
Less than a year ago, America's resounding military victory in Kuwait and Iraq sent President Bush's national approval ratings to record highs and led many politicians to conclude that he would be unbeatable this year. Now all that seems irrelevant, and the President, in his State of the Union address last week and in his campaign commercials, is struggling to demonstrate that foreign affairs are not his only interest.
Senator Tom Harkin, the Iowa Democrat, echoed a significant segment of national opinion with a remark he made at the very beginning of his Presidential campaign last September.
"If you want to continue to spend $160 billion of your money to defend Europe from the Soviet Union, or whatever it's called now, take your ballot and put it in the Bush box," he said. "But if you believe that Europe is strong enough and rich enough and powerful enough to defend itself if it wants, then take your ballot and put it in the Democrats' box."
 
How It Was in '88
 Four years ago, neither Mr. Harkin nor any other major Democrat would have said that kind of thing. Mr. Dukakis rode around in a tank with a helmet on to show he wasn't soft. With the Soviet threat still intact, or thought to be, solidarity with the European allies was considered absolutely central. Almost every President made a pilgrimage to the Berlin wall.
This year, several Democrats have put out detailed foreign policy position papers, and Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, the early leader, made a point of warning against "retreating from the world or discounting its dangers."
But the only foreign policy topic on which the Democratic candidates have spent much time so far has been trade, especially trade with Japan. Some bash Japan and some don't. But all, like Mr. Bush, have tried to turn that global issue into a domestic challenge. If the President's trip to Japan was about "jobs, jobs, jobs" in the United States, the Democrats talk about the same thing in hard-hit New Hampshire.
Little is said about China or Croatia or Cuba. And Patrick J. Buchanan, Mr. Bush's main Republican rival, unashamedly reaches back to the 1930's for the key phrase of his insurgent nationalist campaign -- "America First," with its isolationist overtones.
All through the Nixon, Ford, Reagan and Bush years, the glue that bonded Republican to Republican was opposition to Communism and to higher taxes. Now one is moot and the other, at least in Mr. Buchanan's view, has been discarded by the President in his decision to increase taxes last year.
 
Republican Struggle Resumes
 No one expects Mr. Buchanan to defeat Mr. Bush. But his candidacy is evidence that the old, divisive struggle between the two wings of the Republican Party is resuming. In 1952, that struggle pitted the isolationists against the internationalists, the Taft forces against the Eisenhower forces. At the tumultuous San Francisco convention in 1964, it was the Goldwater wing versus the Rockefeller wing. But in the 24 years that followed,it has been the Republicans' ability to remain unified, in part around cold war themes, that has been a major element in the party's success.
Paul Weyrich, a prominent conservative organizer, remarked that now "there's at least a real danger that in 1992 conservative Republicans may go their own way, and if that's the case the Republicans may be in real trouble."
George Christian, a Texas political consultant who worked in the Johnson White House, asserted that the Republicans would be in deep difficulty already if the Democrats were in a stronger position. If Congress, long controlled by the Democrats, "didn't have such an awful reputation, and if the Democrats had some heavy hitters running for President, all the people ready to vote against Bush would have someplace to go, which they don't have now."
 
The Presidency
For Want of a Foe, Focus Is Lost
 The public is apparently not eager to turn back to the isolationism of the 1920's and 30's. A New York Times/CBS News poll last October showed that while many Americans thought Mr. Bush should pay more attention to the economy, most were by no means ready to revert to the classic American isolationism of Hiram Johnson and William Borah.
About two-thirds of those surveyed agreed that the United States needed a strong military, despite the end of the cold war, and that it should keep playing as active a role in the world as ever.
In any event, American disengagement from the world in an era of instantaneous communication and international markets and investments is widely considered impractical. In the heyday of isolationism, few Americans bought many foreign products and even fewer traveled abroad.
Isolationism isn't really possible in the modern world, and some Americans are leaning that way now only because of the recession, in the view of John Bibby, a professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin.
"My own notion is that the slow pace of the economic recovery has exacerbated domestic problems and concerns in the public's mind," he said. "But if and when the economy rights itself, this will change."
Still, the historian Arthur M. Schlesinger, who in recent years has developed a cyclical theory of American politics, sees the 1990's, like the 1930's and the 1960's, as an era of domestic-policy prominence. In a sense, he said, "the cold war distorted our politics, and foreign policy became the obsessive concern of our Presidents, and that is going to return to normal now."
If he is correct, argues Representative Jim Leach, a Republican from Iowa, Congress is likely to be strengthened in its endless tug-of-war with the White House for policy dominance.
"We all understand," he said, "that Presidents are more dominant in moments of crisis, when we feel threatened as a nation. In matters of domestic policy, where there is less urgency, Congress has the upper hand -- which raises real questions about whether our legislatures in Washington and the state capitals are capable of providing the leadership we need."
But William E. Leuchtenberg, a historian at the University of North Carolina, contends that while the rivalry with Moscow may be a thing of the past, other foreign-policy crises will arise and strengthen the President, even if only temporarily.
"Look at the mass fervor generated by the Persian Gulf war," he said. "The decision to fight Saddam Hussein was essentially made in the White House, with major Congressional figures like Sam Nunn left dangling."
A principal Presidential asset in foreign policy, unmatched in domestic policy, is the ability to act at once and answer questions later. An armed response to the supposed provocation in the Gulf of Tonkin in 1964 contrasts sharply with the need to build a national consensus on, say, education policy before an attack can be launched.
 
In the Name of Security
 In moments of conflict with Congress, Presidents have also been able to appeal successfully to what one former White House chief of staff called "the great god national security." He added, "You tell 'em that they're helping no one but Brezhnev by their stubbornness, and they cave fast."
That has led America into a number of adventures over the last 45 years.
Concerns about the spread of Communism were the explanations for the Korean War, the C.I.A-directed coup in Guatemala, the military occuption of the Dominican Republic and the invasion of Grenada, among other episodes. Cold war competition using proxies in Israel and the Arab world fed the Middle East conflict for 40 years and provided the means for three wars.
And, of course, cold war concern about the "domino theory" and American credibility as a deterrent to Communist expansion led to the Vietnam War and the devastating social and political turmoil at home that came with its loss.
But the national security card is no longer available. Nor are some of the symbols of Presidential power, like that bag with the nuclear-weapons codes, quite so persuasive now that the specter of nuclear annihilation is receding.
"It is built into our system that a President doesn't get his way very easily on domestic policy unless there is an emergency like the Depression," said Steven A. Ambrose, biographer of Dwight D. Eisenhower and Richard M. Nixon. "So you're bound to see some diminution in the Presidency in the years ahead. It's hard to lead a country without a recognized enemy, because there is no agreed focus."
The cold war provided that focus and that mission.
 
The Parties
With the New Order, New Challenges
 Generally speaking, since Harry S. Truman's Administration the Republicans have been regarded as the ones better able to handle foreign policy problems -- even though it was the Truman Administration, with George C. Marshall and Dean Acheson playing central roles, that developed the main themes of American cold war policy. The Persian Gulf victory and arms control success seem to have reinforced the Republicans' image as the party most likely "to keep us out of World War III," to use Gallup's phrase.
At the same time, many voters saw the Democrats as the party of choice on economic issues, largely because of Franklin D. Roosevelt. During and after the Reagan years, when the New Deal was a fading memory, the advantage here shifted to the Republicans, though recent polls suggest it is shifting back. This is forcing Mr. Bush to spend more time on the economy and creating a crucial partisan battleground.
But Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the leader of the Democratic majority in the House, says the political fallout from the Soviet Union's disappearance from the world equation is actually far more complex.
"It has the potential to change the partisan balance, probably in our favor, because one of the themes they raised, especially in Presidential campaigns and often with considerable success, is that they were better able to deal with the Kremlin," he said. "But what we face now is a world with economics and foreign policy intertwined, where our embassies will have to deal with economics more than geopolitical questions, and where politicians will have to help in organizing here for economic success worldwide. That's a profound change, a challenge to anyone in public life."
Former Senator Howard H. Baker of Tennessee, a Republican who is also a former White House chief of staff, said, "There's an opportunity in all this bedlam as we move out of the warm glow of stability and walk the edge of anarchy, with dozens of small problems instead of one big confrontation."
"I see a major opportunity for some party to seize the advantage with clearly understood, well-stated policies," he said. "But I'm not seeing it yet, in the Congress or the White House, from the Republicans or the Democrats. Nobody's talking fundamentals; nobody's laying out goals."
NEXT: The new priorities of American foreign policy.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Former Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr., Governor Bill Clinton, Senator Tom Harkin, Senator Bob Kerrey, Former Senator Paul E. Tsongas, Patrick J. Buchanan (pg. A8)
 
Chart: "Foreign Policy Credentials: Six Candidates' Resumes
 The New York Times asked each of the Presidential challengers to cite the experience he believes qualifies him to handle the nation's foreign policy. Here are summaries of their responses.
 Former Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr.: Two terms as California Governor, handling one of the world's largest economies . . . Has traveled to Mexico, China, the Soviet Union . . . Spent six weeks in India and six months in Japan and met with those nations' leaders . . . Continuous study of foreign policy.
 Governor Bill Clinton: Graduated from Georgetown University School of Froeign Service . . . Studied at Oxford University in England and received a law degree form Yale . . . Staff member, Senate Foreign Relations Committee . . . As Governor, led numerous trade missions to foreign countries.
 Senator Tom Harkin: Fromer Navy pilot . . . Member of Senate Foreign Operations Subcommittee, responsibile for some aspects of foreign aid, and Senate defense subcommittee on appropriations . . . Met with foreign leaders on official travels abroad . . . Led a Congressional delegation to Moscow in 1990 and met with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev . . . Author or sponsor of several bills on foreign policy matters.
 Senator Bob Kerrey: Served in Vietnam and sent troops into combat . . . Has discussed economic and security matters with many world leaders . . . Served on the Senate Intelligence Committee.
 Former Senator Paul E. Tsongas: Served as a Peace Corps volunteer in Ethiopia in 1962 and a training coordinator in 1967 and 1968 . . . Was a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee for four years . . . Headed the committee that drafted the foreign relations platform for the Democrats' mide-term convention in 1982 . . . Author or sponsor of several bills on foreign policy matters . . . Co-founded the South Africa Political Prisoner Adoption Project . . . Served as a mediator in Salvadoran peace talks in 1984.
 Patrick J. Buchanan: senior adviser to three Presidents . . . Attended three summit meetings . . . Accompanied Richard M. Nixon to China . . . Believes the best qualification is the determination to keep America's interests first in foreign affairs. (pg. A8)
 
Graph: "Problems at Home and Abroad: American's Views Through the Cold War" shows the results from Gallup polls from 1946-1991 and a New York Times/CBS News Poll in 1992 of what adults nationwide thought was the most important problem facing the country. (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); INDIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); ENGLAND (59%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (90%); CBS NEWS DIVISION (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (59%); PEACE CORPS (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (59%); PEACE CORPS (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); INDIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); ENGLAND (59%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; SURVEYS AND SERIES; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE VOTERS & VOTING (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); WIRETAPPING (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); WRITERS (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SCHLESINGER, ARTHUR M JR (PROF) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); TOM HARKIN (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (78%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (77%); JERRY BROWN (73%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



203 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: WEICKER PROPOSES BIG SPENDING CUTS

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Feb. 5

 BODY:
A year after he unleashed a political storm by proposing Connecticut's first income tax, Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. today put forward a budget that rejects new taxes and calls instead for sharp spending cuts, especially in welfare and in other social programs.
The proposals, delivered in Mr. Weicker's State of the State Address, embraced trends in government retrenchment -- especially in curtailing welfare benefits -- that have been felt from Massachusetts and Michigan to New York and New Jersey as states have struggled to redefine their public mission.
 
'Reading the Mood'
 But the magnitude of Governor Weicker's budget cuts make the challenge for Connecticut particularly great. His $8.1 billion budget calls for more than $1.1 billion in cuts in existing programs and the elimination of thousands of state jobs. 
 Mr. Weicker, a third-party chief executive with a history as a liberal, said Connecticut's system of spending on social programs and education, devised in the 1980's "when money rolled into the state in wheelbarrows," was no longer practical. Curtailing the system now, he said, would reduce costs, keep taxes down over the long term and thus make the state more attractive to businesses.
"I think he is reading the mood of the legislature correctly," said the Senate majority leader, Cornelius O'Leary, a Democrat from Windsor Locks.
Mr. Weicker's plan would freeze future public-employee pensions and cut education aid to municipalities. It would also eliminate inflation or cost-of-living increases on everything from Medicaid nursing home reimbursement to parents receiving Aid to Families with Dependent Children and would release towns from mandates that he said had driven up costs, like the need to provide programs for gifted children.
Mr. Weicker's proposals are likely to appeal to the same mainstream Republicans and moderate Democrats in the legislature who opposed the income tax last year and who still say they want it repealed. When this coalition votes as a bloc, at it did increasingly last year, it makes up the legislature's working majority.
In his hourlong address, Mr. Weicker said: "I realize the rigors of what is being asked for. And make no mistake, I am also mindful of the hurt and anger that rise in too many Connecticut hearts." The cuts, he said, while harsh and painful in the short term, are "nonetheless necessary for the greater good of Connecticut's future."
 
Trimming and Trimming
 Mr. Weicker, who used similar language last year in starting the drive for his income-tax plan, repeatedly called on lawmakers to heal the wounds of the 1991 struggle, move on and forget about repealing the tax -- a message that sparked applause from liberals who support the tax.
But in most of the speech there was little for them to cheer. Mr. Weicker's plan would eliminate 3,800 of 45,792 state jobs through early retirements or layoffs -- with the added incentive that any state employee who retires after July 1, 1994, would receive no automatic cost-of-living increase in his or her pension. Those job cuts would be partly offset by new hiring for prisons and for the Department of Children and Youth Services.
Benefits would be reduced for current employees, who would have to pay a greater proportion of health benefits. Nursing homes would see the state's Medicaid contribution drop by $100 million through the elimination of automatic rate increases and through other restrictions on how rates are calculated. Education aid would be cut by $161 million, with most towns, especially wealthier communities, facing declines that would either have to made up through property-tax increases or by cutbacks in programs.
But the emotional centerpiece of the plan for people across all bands of the political spectrum were the welfare cuts and new eligibility rules. Officials at the Department of Income Maintenance, which administers Medicaid and welfare, said that two-thirds of the 35,000 people now receiving general assistance would face cuts in benefits or removal from the program.
Under current law, general assistance to the poor varies widely, with benefits ranging up to an average of $958 a month in Greenwich, the state's wealthiest and most expensive community, to $240 a month in places like Waterbury. There is also no automatic eviction procedure that removes people from the assistance rolls.
The Governor's plan would standardize assistance levels across the state with a two-tiered system that would allow $430 a month in the most expensive regions and $356 in other areas, with housing allowances calculated on a case-by-case basis. A person would be allowed to receive aid for only six months in any one-year period. The Department's Commissioner, Audrey Rowe, conceded that the plans could result in additional homelessness and that money had been shifted to the Department of Human Resources budget for that purpose.
But some of the proposals also seemed harsher in Mr. Weicker's speech than they may be in fact. In his address, for example, the Governor said that parents receiving benefits under the Aid to Families With Dependent Children program would have to prove that their children were attending school every day. The inference was that benefits might be reduced.
But officials at the welfare agency said no such sanctions were contemplated, and that in fact additional counseling or help might be provided in such cases to keep children in school -- that is where real savings will come in the long run, the officials said, as the cycle of welfare dependence is broken.
Mr. Weicker said the goal of all the cuts was to create new jobs in the state by reducing costs and the rate of tax increases. Most of the specific plans to stimulate business were small or could not be put into place this year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. of Connecticut as he delivered his State of the State Address in Hartford. (Steve Miller for The New York Times) (pg. A1)
 
Chart: "THE KEY POINTS: Weicker's Proposed Cuts"
 
Major spending cuts proposed by Governor Weicker yesterday to balance Connecticut's state budget in fiscal 1993, and the amounts they would save. The Governor did not propose any tax increases.
 
REDUCED BENEFITS FOR STATE WORKERS: $111 MILLION
 
JOB REDUCTIONS: $122 MILLION
A net loss of 2,700 jobs, bringing total state emplooyment to 43,046.
 
WELFARE CUTS: $113 MILLION
Included are tighter eligibility and reduced reimbursements to towns.
 
REDUCED AID TO SCHOOLS: $161 MILLION
Cuts would affect schools in most of the state's cities and towns.
 
OTHER EDUCTION CUTS: $30 MILLION
Elimination of grants for gifted and talented students; other revisions to special education grant programs.
 
(Source: Governor's office) (pg. B6)
 
Graph: "Striking A Balance: Connecticut's Proposed Budget for 1993" shows where the money would come from for Connecticut's General Fund in 1993, and how the money would be distributed. (Source: Governor's office) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; INCOME TAX; WELFARE (US) BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); MEDICAID (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); TRENDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (68%); GIFTED EDUCATION (67%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK; WEICKER, LOWELL P JR (GOV) LOWELL P WEICKER JR (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



204 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2111 words

HEADLINE: Blatant Fraud Pushing Up The Cost of Car Insurance

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

 BODY:
Some mornings, people in Lawrence, Mass., have awakened to see the top of a car jutting above the surface of the Merrimack River. On inspection, police divers have found that so many people dumped their cars into the river, to file false stolen-car claims, that the last car in the night before had fallen onto a stack of others and would not sink.
Lawrence is just one example of how auto insurance fraud has become increasingly widespread and blatant in many areas of the United States: Regulators and researchers say that fraud is now far more common and costly to the nation than the insurance industry estimates, and that the industry is doing relatively little to combat it.
 
A Difference in Estimates
 Critics say fraud has been an important force in pushing up the premiums Americans have to pay for auto insurance, from $40 billion to $100 billion since 1980, and that fraudulent claims -- everything from reporting accidents that never happened, to exaggerated car damage to faked injuries -- have been paid out with little challenge or investigation. 
 In Massachusetts, the insurance commissioner estimates that fraud and abuse account for as much as 40 percent of auto insurance claims, and a recent study shows that approximately 90 percent of injury claims in Lawrence involved either fraud or severe abuse.
The insurance industry has long estimated fraud at 10 percent of auto claims filed.
In New York, the Nassau County police have concluded that 50 to 60 percent of the hundreds of people who report their cars stolen from the Green Acres shopping mall in Valley Stream, L.I., have actually abandoned or destroyed them for the insurance money, Lieut. Lawrence Mulvey said. One out of four shoppers reporting cars stolen there is being arrested for fraud, he said, and as many as seven out of ten people who come to the nearby precinct with such reports -- doctors, teachers, even a corrections officer -- wind up being arrested themselves.
"Ordinary people come in and say things like, 'Hey, they just stole my car while I was shopping at Macy's' -- only problem is there's no Macy's there," Lieutenant Mulvey said.
The insurance companies have rarely lost much money on fraud because, the critics say, they could often pass the costs on to the public in the form of higher premiums. The companies deny this.
"I would say that the insurance industry's excitement quotient on pursuing fraud on a scale of one to ten is minus one," said Tim Ryles, the insurance commissioner of Georgia and chairman of the antifraud committee of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. "I think there is a lot of frenetic surface activity, but not a lot of activity to do anything about it."
Major insurance companies bitterly dispute such criticism. They are increasing their attention to fraud, they say, but are limited by the costs of investigations and the threat of lawsuits if they refuse to pay legitimate claims promptly. They argue, too, that the prosecutors and law-enforcement agencies, often confronted with more pressing crimes of violence, lack real interest in fighting fraud. Only eight states have insurance departments with fraud bureaus.
Furthermore, the public cannot expect private insurance companies to solve the fraud problem, they say, when fraud seems accepted by so much of the public.
"The insurance industry is doing as much as it can," said William Schroeder, a vice president of the Alliance of American Insurers, a trade association of 170 property and casualty companies. "We are already an industry under siege."
 
Lax Enforcement Tempts the Public
 For whatever reason, the number of cases insurance companies referred to the industry agency that investigates fraud and assists law enforcement agencies, the Insurance Crime Prevention Institute, were less than one-fiftieth of 1 percent of the more than 50 million auto insurance claims filed in the United States in 1991. The institute investigated 1,616 cases and its investigations led to 770 arrests.
It may be that because so few cases are investigated or punishments handed out that many otherwise law-abiding citizens see car insurance policies as tickets to tax-free cash.
In Nassau County, for example, Wendell Augustine, a United Parcel Service truck mechanic from Rosedale, Queens, told police officers on Sept. 6, 1990, that someone had taken his 1984 Cadillac while he was at the movies. After Mr. Augustine failed to recall what movie he had seen, he admitted the attempted fraud. But he was dismissed from court with neither fine nor jail sentence, though most people are fined about $250.
In Philadelphia, Miami, New York City, Southern California and other areas, the police or local authorities say one of every five stolen car reports is false. Industry spokesmen say urban areas like these and eastern Massachusetts are higher than the rest of the nation.
But a new estimate by a consulting firm to insurance companies, the Quality Planning Corporation of Oakland, Calif., puts the cost of fraud at 27 percent of total dollars paid out nationally on all auto insurance claims.
The issue goes beyond the increases in the cost of insurance that has prompted consumer revolts across the country. It also raises questions, experts say, of how an industry that charges $400 billion a year in premiums is going to respond to rising evidence of fraud in many types of insurance. And it illustrates how the insurance system, designed to distribute risk, has evolved into a system that often diffuses ethical responsibility.
Massachusetts perhaps suggests the scope of the problem. A 1991 study of the bodily injury liability claims by automobile insurers in the state found that 46 percent of claims there in 1989 involved apparent fraud or "building up" of medical claims, up from 32 percent in 1986.
Lawrence, a municipality of 80,000 people with the worst reported auto theft rate in the state, was a focal point of the study. It found apparent fraud or abuse there in 88.5 percent of the bodily injury claims.
Accidents had not increased much in the 1980's, but the number of bodily injury claims had grown fourfold in six years. Nearly one in ten cars in the city was reported stolen in 1990.
"It was so blatant the insurers should have seen a red flag," said Mayor Kevin J. Sullivan of Lawrence. "But they were paying these claims without proper investigation and then billing all that to the motorists of the state. And criminals, lawyers, chiropractors and ordinary people saw no reason not to file claims."
The Quality Planning Corporation, in estimating fraud at 27.3 percent of dollars paid out for auto claims nationwide, bases its conclusions on interviews with 120 government and private auto-fraud specialists and on accident reports, medical records and academic research. The company's study says that out of every $100 that consumers pay in automobile insurance premiums, $2.20 goes to body shop overbilling; $2.15 to charges for damage that existed before accidents took place; $6.70 to faked thefts; $2 to staged accidents or fictional accidents, and $8.50 to exaggeration of soft-tissue injuries in third party claims.
Much of the rise in the cost of auto insurance can, certainly, be attributed to factors besides fraud, such as legitimate legal, medical and repair fees. But consumer advocates and others say that fraud is an element that can in part be controlled, and that the insurance companies have been slow to act.
 
Some Programs Attack the Problem
 The Massachusetts experience is also instructive on the matter of attacking the problem. An industry group newly formed to combat fraud has given the Lawrence police $480,000 to help investigate suspicious claims. The program, set up last year, has already resulted in a drop of 36 percent in reported thefts and 15 percent in reported accidents.
In California, some progress has been made as well, and law-enforcement authorities say some companies there, too, are helping. A 40-member ring operating outside illegal gambling parlors in the Los Angeles area was broken up last spring after it collected more that $50 million in phony claims for staged traffic accidents, according to prosecutors. Runners had been placed outside the gambling parlors to offer losers $1,000 each to use their identification and insurance policy numbers to file false accident claims.
Still, the ring was discovered only when a recruiter approached a poker-club security guard and the guard notified the police.
Daniel Finnegan and Gail Simpson, economists at Quality Planning, say in a forthcoming issue of Best Review, an industry publication, that claims filed by the California ring -- 1,000 a year -- went undetected by insurers because adjusters were overwhelmed by cases, undertrained to detect fraud and given little incentive to do so. By contrast, the ring had lawyers, doctors and professional criminals with years of experience in staging fake accidents on their side.
"The fraud game is like a showdown between the 49ers and the St. Mary's Junior High School football team," the two economists write. Adjusters nationally had less than seven hours on average to devote to any given claim; the average bodily injury adjuster has from 100 to 300 pending cases, and has little face-to-face contact with claimants.
Frank E. Doolittle, director of the fraud division of the Florida Insurance Department, said that among the insurance companies "there seems to be a philosophy that as long as they have the money to cover their losses, they shouldn't refer a case to us."
The companies deny that they can cover heavy fraud losses or that they can simply pass those costs along to consumers in higher premiums because, they say, their own competitors, and often state regulators, prevent this.
 
Bribes Offered In New Jersey
 In New Jersey, State Department of Insurance investigators recently visited 176 auto-body shops, posing as customers and insurance adjusters: 23 "customers" and 27 "adjusters" were offered bribes in exchange for helping the shops inflate insurance claims, the department said. Yet over the last three years, the department says it has not received one complaint from an insurance company in the state of a body shop offering an adjuster a bribe.
Spokesmen for the nation's largest carriers of automobile insurance said they had greatly improved their capacity to stop fraud in recent years, particularly by enlarging their specially trained antifraud investigative units. For example, the nation's second- largest auto insurer, Allstate, says that it plans to double the number of its antifraud units this year. And they insisted that corruption among adjusters was not, generally, a problem.
The Finnegan-Simpson article estimates, however, that the special investigative units at current staffing levels can only investigate about one-tenth of 1 percent, or 1 in 10,000 claims submitted.
Statistics from companies indicate that at least some do slightly better. Nationwide Insurance of Columbus, Ohio, which processed more than one million automobile insurance claims in 1990, said its special investigators unit handled 3,600 cases in that year, or 3.6 claims in 10,000. The investigations resulted in reduced payments on 2,700 claims, the denial of 620 claims, and referral of 101 claims to law enforcement officials. At USAA of San Antonio, the antifraud units handled about three of every 10,000 claims the company processed.
Sean Mooney, a spokesman for the Insurance Information Institute, an industry group, says many companies see pursuing fraud as prohibitively expensive, although they do operate data-base systems that they make available to the police. But other companies say antifraud programs can, in fact, pay for themselves and, when operated competently, do not result in the denial of claims to honest policyholders.
Nationwide, for one, estimates that the $4 million it spent on antifraud operations in 1990 yielded $16 million in savings from denied or reduced fraudulent claims.
The Robert Plan Corporation of Lynbrook, L.I., specializes in the difficult markets, insuring assigned-risk drivers in New York, New Jersey, Florida, Massachusetts and California. And it makes that business profitable, in large part by scrutinizing suspicious claims, said Brian Duffy, the president of the company's California operation.
"Many companies say, 'I'm going to have to spend so much money defending this, therefore I'm going to settle for $4,000 to $5,000,' " Mr. Duffy said. "Well, then you are going to get another one from the same lawyer the next week."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The New York City Police Department's Auto Crime Unit inspects auto parts yards in the city to check, by serial number, for evidence of fraudulent stolen car claims and for parts from stolen vehicles. One in four of the auto theft reports they investigate, they say, turns out to be fraudulent. Above, some of the unit's officers at a parts yard in the Bronx. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. D6)
 
Graphs: "Increasing Deception" shows percentage of fraudulent claims filed and buildup (exagerated medical expenses) claims filed from '86-'87, and '89. (Source: Insurance Fraud Bureau of Massachusetts); "Rising Premiums" shows the change inpersonal and commercial auto insurance premiums compared with the consumer price index from 1980-1991. (Source: Insurance Information Institute) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (50%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (59%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (59%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; LAWRENCE (MASS) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; PUBLIC OPINION; RATES AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (93%); INSURANCE (91%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (89%); VEHICLE THEFT (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (88%); ARRESTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); INSURANCE FRAUD (77%); PERSONAL INJURY (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); CITIES (74%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (66%); RETAILERS (64%); 

PERSON: KERR, PETER LAWRENCE MULVEY (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



205 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-11
 
U.S. POLITICS TURNING INWARD
 The whole terrain of American politics is undergoing fundamental change after four decades of hard-line anti-Communism. With the end of the cold war, knowledge of the rest of the world seems to count for very little: none of the Presidential candidates except Mr. Bush have foreign-policy credentials, and his are often viewed as a liability. A1
 
IRAQI KURDS FEEL PARALYZED
 The Kurdish dream of independence from Iraq is vanishing amid internal dissension and a three-month economic blockade imposed by the Baghdad Government. A1
 
U.N. BERATES BAGHDAD ON OIL
 The United Nations Security Council faulted President Hussein for breaking off talks in Vienna on resuming oil sales. The Council said that his refusal to sell the oil on the U.N.'s terms made him responsible for his people's sufferings. A10
 
KUWAITI INCUBATOR ISSUE
 The American Embassy in Kuwait has sent the State Department details to bolster disputed accounts of how occupying Iraqis killed babies at Kuwaiti hospitals in 1990 by disconnecting their incubators. A11
 
GLOOMY TIMES IN POLAND
 From the cabarets to the Parliament, the prevailing talk in Poland is of strikes, social unrest and even a return to authoritarian rule. Euphoria about toppling Communism has been supplanted by anxiety. A1
 
HOW VENEZUELA FOILED A COUP
 As normalcy returned to Venezuela, officials recounted how a knot of young, nationalist army officers came within minutes of assassinating the President of one of South America's oldest democracies. A3
 
COURTING CENTRAL ASIAN STATES
 Worried that Iran's influence is expanding, Washington plans to move quickly to open embassies in the Central Asian republics of the former Soviet Union. A3
 
FIERCE CLASHES IN ALGERIA
 At least 8 people were killed and 57 wounded in clashes between fundamentalists and security forces in the Algerian city of Batna. Young militants had rioted to protest the sentencing of a Muslim cleric. A6
 
Jerusalem Journal: Road 1 is a metphor for the city's tribulations. A4
 
National A12-21, B7-8
 
A TWIST IN GENETICS
 In research on the most common form of muscular dystrophy, scientists have discovered a novel mechanism of inheritance in which genetic damage gets more severe with subsequent generations. A1
 
AUTO INSURANCE FRAUD
 Regulators and researchers say that fraud is increasingly common and costly and that the industry is doing little to combat it. Fraud has pushed up the premiums Americans pay, as insurers pass along the cost, these critics say. A1
 
A WOMAN'S SELF-IMAGE
 While many people see bodily flaws as superficial and take them in stride, to others, especially young girls, they can be devastating to their self-image. More than 20 years after the start of the women's movement, many women still feel judged more on physical attributes than inherent worth. A1
 
SEWAGE FOULS BEACHES
 Millions of gallons of partially treated sewage is spilling into the Pacific Ocean just off San Diego after a pipe ruptured. Beaches have been closed, and pipeline repairs will take at least six weeks. A12
 
GOODBYE TO A BLUESMAN
 Borrowing a page from the New Orleans book, Chicago bid farewell to the legendary bluesman Willie Dixon, who died last week. A12
 
RETHINKING U.S. INTELLIGENCE
 In a move intended to jolt the Administration and Congress into adapting the country's intelligence system to fit a post-Communist world, the chairmen of the House and Senate Intelligence Committees proposed a sweeping reorganization of intelligence agencies. A16
 
AND NOW FROM NIXON . . .
Former President Nixon weighs in with predictions for the New Hampshire primary and the political campaign after it. A18
 
BEYOND THE DUKE CANDIDACY
 The Presidential candidacy of David Duke has raised the broader issue of who should be allowed on, or excluded from, primary ballots. A18
 
REVISITING A CAMPAIGN
 The House of Representatives cleared the way for investigation of charges that in 1980 the Reagan Presidential campaign struck a deal with Iran to delay the release of American hostages until after the election. A19
 
LOW SCORES, AGAIN
 American pupils scored lower in math and science than did children in several other countries, according to a new study, but the head of the Educational Testing Service noted that the rankings were suspect because of difference in the student populations tested. A14
 
HORATIO ALGER HEALTH PLAN
 A Cleveland health insurance plan that lets small businesses offer coverage for less money is providing the Republican Party with a model of market forces at work. A20
 
BUSH AND MEDICINE
 President Bush will avoid taking the sleeping pill Halcion because of the public controversy over its side effects, but Mr. Bush's doctor said he would not exclude the possiblity of prescribing the drub if it was medically indicated. A20
 
A Federal appeals court challenges race-based scholarships. A15
 
A doctor who invented a suicide device was charged with murder. A21
 
A Manhattan doctor stopped using silicone injections. B7
 
A round-the-world balloon flight got a new liftoff date. B8
 
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
WEICKER'S GRIM NEWS
 The $8.1 billion budget proposed by Governor Weicker rejects new taxes and calls instead for $1.1 billion in spending cuts, especially in welfare and other social programs. A1
 
SLOW GOING FOR SCHOOLS
 Six months after an early retirement plan stripped the New York City school system of 211 of its principals, only 26 of those vacancies have been filled as parents and teachers have been bogged down in a new selection process. A1
 
Neediest Cases B2
 
Business Digest, D1
 
The Home Section C1-12
 
New toys are not make-believe. C1
Rural roots refuse to wither. C1
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-24
 
For the Philharmonic, more than just a new contract. C15
 
Sports B9-18
 
Basketball: North Carolina beats Duke. B9
 
Obituaries D22
 
Lisa Fonssagrives-Penn, a leading fashion model in the 1940's and 50's.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A22-23
 
Editorials A22
Lending for peace in Israel.
A blind judge?
Don't censor P.B.S.
Topics: Custodians.
Letters A22
William Safire: Reading Boris's mind. A23
Anthony Lewis: Mubarak's Egypt. A23
Frank Levy and Richard J. Murnane: Orphans of the ballot box. A23
Betty Jean Lifton: Tokyo needs my old Chevy. A23
Reiko Hatsumi: Detroit needs to think small. A23

GRAPHIC: Photo: As Poland's economy falters, so does Walesa's popularity. A1 (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (93%); POLAND (93%); ALGERIA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (87%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AUSTRIA (71%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (93%); POLAND (93%); ALGERIA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (87%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AUSTRIA (71%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); POLITICS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); ARMIES (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); COUPS (72%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (71%); RIOTS (71%); ASSASSINATION (70%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (67%); INSURANCE (64%); INSURANCE FRAUD (64%); RELIGION (62%); SCIENCE NEWS (60%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%); GENETIC DISEASES (60%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (60%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (60%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



206 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Break in Pipe Spews Sewage Near San Diego's Shore

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Feb. 5

 BODY:
A ruptured undersea pipe is spilling millions of gallons of partly treated sewage from San Diego and 15 other towns into the Pacific Ocean, and officials have closed four miles of beaches north of the city's only sewage plant.
Officials today said it would take from six to eight weeks to fix the break, during which time the effluent would continue to flow into the ocean 1,000 yards offshore. Work was to start Thursday, but a forecast storm threatened both to delay the work and to spread the effluent. 
 The break meant more hardship in a region already suffering from cutbacks in water use because of drought. Mayor Maureen O'Connor this afternoon asked residents to restrict water use sharply for the next five to seven days while the ruptured pipe was stabilized, asking that showers be limited to three minutes and toilets flushed "only when necessary."
The pipe is the only sewage disposal available to 1.7 million residents of the San Diego area. Unable to divert the waste, city water officials were forced today to continue to pump 170 million to 180 million gallons a day from the Point Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant through the ruptured pipe, which normally carries the treated, but not sanitized, sewage to an outlet 2.5 miles off the coast, where it is carried away by ocean currents.
 
A Plume of Effluent
 The city is already under order to extend the pipe and improve its sewage treatment. In 1991 the Environmental Protection Agency obtained a Federal court order to have the city comply with the Clean Water Act by lengthening the offshore pipe and installing secondary treatment processing to further clean the waste before it is dumped. The first phase of that plan, which would cost $1.85 billion, is under study.
A plume of effluent, surrounded by sea gulls, could be seen today rising from the water about two-thirds of a mile from the city's sewage plant. The currents carried the sewage south across the mouth of San Diego Bay. But city officials said it did not currently threaten the America's Cup yachting race, which begins May 9.
The accident served to underscore how urban waste systems have been stretched to the limit in the fast-growing west. The 29-year-old plant had been operating at near capacity for some time and the city had no backup or emergency plan for such a mishap.
"The message is that San Diego, like many cities, has barely enough capacity to meet the present load," said Scott Jenkins, a research engineer at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography here. "People keep flushing their toilets, so if anything goes wrong, you have nothing to stop the effluent from going into the ocean."
City Manager Jack McCrory said laboratory tests had thus far found the contamination confined to the coast near the break, from Ladera Street to the tip of Point Loma near the entrance to San Diego Bay. He said authorities expected it to remain confined but were concerned about the storm.
The effluent is flowing into an area rich in kelp "forests" and more than 700 bottom-dwelling plants and animals. The area is popular among divers. Paul Dayton, Professor of Marine Ecology at Scripps, said that he did not believe that there would be any significant damage to marine life, though he advised against consuming scallops or other shellfish taken from the area.
The San Diego County Director of Environmental Health, Gary Stephany, said that the potential for environmental damage was small compared to an oil spill. But he, like other local officials, was concerned about the effects on the local economy, heavily based on tourism.
 
Concern About Tourism
 "If we keep people out of the water, there will be very little chance of people getting sick," he said. "But we're concerned because the beaches are pristine. They're one of our tourist attractions." He said that though 80 percent of the solids were removed from the effluent at the Point Loma plant, it contained coliform and other bacterias as well as viruses that could cause disease.
He urged that no one eat fish caught in the affected area, although he said thorough cooking would kill any disease organisms.
Divers on Tuesday made videotapes of the ruptured reinforced concrete pipe, which is 9 feet in diameter and composed of 16-foot concrete sections weighing 26 to 30 tons each.
Alan C. Langworthy, deputy director of the city Water Utilities Department, said he believed the break was caused by natural forces like a settling of the ocean floor. There was a major separation at one point and the force of that break caused 19 other smaller breaks, he said. There has been no recent seismic activity in the area.

GRAPHIC: Map/Diagram: "The Broken Sewage Pipe" shows the location of San Diego in California, and the area of the pipe break.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); PACIFIC OCEAN (93%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SAN DIEGO (CALIF); PACIFIC OCEAN; SAN DIEGO (CALIF) UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); PACIFIC OCEAN (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; PIPELINES SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (94%); OCEANS (90%); BEACHES (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); DROUGHT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (78%); MAYORS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (78%); WATER QUALITY (76%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (74%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (72%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); BOAT RACING (60%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



207 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: House Votes to Investigate 'October Surprise'

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5

 BODY:
After an intensely partisan debate, the House of Representatives tonight voted to investigate accusations that Ronald Reagan's Presidential campaign struck a deal with Iran in 1980 to delay release of American hostages until after the election.
The vote of 217 to 192, with no Republican voting for the measure and 34 Democrats opposing it, cleared the way for the creation of a Congressional task force to conduct the investigation. The task force would deliver its preliminary findings to the House on July 1. 
 "We owe it to the hostages, we owe it to the American people and we owe it to history to set the record straight, if we can," said Representative David E. Bonior of Michigan, the majority whip.
Although President Bush and former President Reagan have said they would welcome such an investigation, Congressional Republicans criticized the proposal, contending that the investigation would waste money that could better be spent on job programs and other measures to aid the economy.
House Speaker Thomas S. Foley said it was unfortunate that the issue had become partisan.
"Our intention is not a partisan intention," said Mr. Foley. "We believe that these allegations and rumors should be subjected to fair and impartial and bipartisan review."
Mr. Foley, a Washington Democrat, was initially reluctant to undertake the investigation, fearing that it would be considered a ploy to gain advantage in the election. Although Democrats could reap political benefits if the accusations could be proved, they risk public derision if the investigation should prove futile.
Nor are the Republicans without risk. They face public scorn if investigators discover a link between the Reagan campaign and a delay in the release of the hostages. Back in 1980, the Republicans feared that President Carter would announce in October -- just before the Presidential election and with great jubilation -- that an agreement with Iran had been reached to free the American hostages, giving rise to the term "October surprise."
Today, the Republican theme was struck early in the debate by Representative Gerald B. H. Solomon of New York, who urged:
"Vote down this partisan rule and the partisan resolution it makes in order. We don't need more negative publicity over spending jillions of taxpayers' dollars chasing after decade-old rumors. Instead, we should be spending our time and resources on constructive efforts to solve today's economic problems."
The investigation, to be led by Representative Lee H. Hamilton, the Indiana Democrat who was co-chairman of the House-Senate panel that looked into the Iran-Contra scandal, could be complicated. The accusations concern events that occurred more than a decade ago, and some witnesses have credibility problems because they operate in the shadowy worlds of arms dealing and intelligence. Democrats seek a low-key investigation, without a televised public hearing.
Last fall, House Democratic leaders held unsuccessful negotiations with Republicans to try to set ground rules on procedures and the length of the investigation.The Republicans wanted the investigation to include reports that President Carter had offered Iran $150 million in weapons for the hostages' freedom, but the House rejected their request by a party line vote of 158 to 249. The Republicans then thwarted the investigation by tying up appropriation bills in the closing days of the session.
In the Senate, the Foreign Relations committee narrowly voted last October to approve an investigation. But a bill to provide $600,000 for the investigation died on the Senate floor when supporters could not overcome a Republican filibuster.
Nevertheless, last December, Senator Terry Sanford, Democrat of North Carolina, and James M. Jeffords, Republican of Vermont, named Reid Weingarten, a Washington lawyer, as special counsel to conduct the investigation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN OF VERMONT (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN OF VERMONT (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1980; HOSTAGES INVESTIGATIONS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); WITNESSES (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (68%); 

PERSON: TOLCHIN, MARTIN; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



208 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: City Gives Bush a Health Plan Model

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, Feb. 5

 BODY:
As the recession took hold of the construction industry here last year, Don Rodemann, a roofer, was working less and paying more for health insurance. Finding it harder to manage the $424 a month contribution to his union insurance policy, Mr. Rodemann, his wife, Sharon, and their three sons were about to join the ranks of 35 million uninsured Americans last year.
Then the Rodemanns turned to Mrs. Rodemann's employer, Malley's Chocolates, which had joined an 18-year-old Cleveland project that helps small businesses offer cheaper, less comprehensive policies to their workers. The Rodemann's now pay $194 a month. Malley's picks up the other $194. 
 When President Bush unveils his long-awaited health care proposals on Thursday he will do it in Cleveland, in large part to bring a Presidential pat on the back to the insurance project here.
That success provides the Republican Party with a kind of Horatio Alger story it badly needs for the current national health insurance debate. The Cleveland project, established by the local Chamber of Commerce, can be offered as an example of market forces at work to alleviate the health care crisis -- a crisis that could be a potent Democratic weapon in the November elections.
 
Coverage Importance Grows
 But the project's failure to reach or to help hundreds of other workers, some self-employed, others in industries like construction, is also a graphic example of the limitations of the market when it comes to providing health care coverage. Such coverage can mean the difference between health and illness or solvency and bankruptcy in this era when health care costs consume 12.1 percent of the gross national product.
Some employees of small businesses, like those at Kronheim's Furniture and Interiors, have the option of getting insurance through the Chamber of Commerce group but must pay all the premiums themselves. Two Kronheim employees said they could not afford to pay premiums of about $400 a month for their families, and so they remain uninsured.
A company spokesman confirmed that employees have coverage available through the Chamber of Commerce group, but refused to discuss company policy on contributing toward premium payments.
"I'm not certain that the fact the system has failed some people means the system is a failure," said John Polk, executive director of the insurance group. "Isn't it far more appropriate for us to consider ways to solve the problem that we have than to turn the whole system upside down and shake it and see what happens?"
Bill Malley, owner of Malley's Chocolates, said that working through the Chamber of Commerce program saves him an estimated 35 percent on insurance premium costs. The Chamber of Commerce group, the Council of Smaller Enterprises, or COSE [pronounced cozy], has banded small employers together to create a large insurance pool of 65,000 employees.
 
Democrats Offer Program
 One insurance plan on the table in Congress was proposed in separate forms by two Democrats, Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, head of the Finance Committee, and Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, chairman of the Ways and Means Committee.
Under these proposals, insurers would be required to provide coverage to all small businesses that sought it, and the insurers would have virtually no leeway to exclude employees who might have a chronic health problem or had experienced a serious illness in the past. Insurers would have no leeway to drop employees who developed health problems after they were enrolled in the plans.
But as Mr. Polk and others point out, forcing high-risk individuals into the coverage pool is likely to raise insurance premium costs for everyone.
To which a Democratic staffer on the Ways and Means Committee, speaking on condition of anonymity, responded: "If you're going to take care of sick people, does that mean you're going to have to raise the rates for well people? The answer is, to some extent, yes. Obviously keeping sick people out is one way that insurers keep premium costs down."
 
Different Carriers Involved
 In Cleveland, the Chamber of Commerce group offers access to a wide variety of plans through several insurance carriers, although a vast majority of their coverage is handled by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Ohio.
The premium costs range from $58.94 a month for a young single person able to pay an annual deductible of $250 and $1,000 in additional costs a year, to $498 a month for more complete coverage for a family headed by a worker in his 40's.
The Rodemanns' new plan has a deductible of $400 -- twice as high as the deductible for their union coverage -- but offers complete coverage of hospital care and reduced coverage of such items as private duty nurses or long-term therapy.
Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Ohio does refuse coverage to some members of the Chamber of Commerce group, like William Wendling, a 47-year-old public relations consultant who runs his own business, Wendling Communications.
For three years in the mid-1980's, Mr. Wendling suffered from "cluster headaches," a rare disorder that required $30,000 worth of care and surgery to cure. Mr. Wendling said this condition led the insurer to exclude him from coverage, and he had to seek it elsewhere.
Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Ohio now covers about 1.3 million people in the state -- fewer than in the past, said its president, John Burry Jr., in part because commercial companies have skimmed off the young, healthy, desirable risks, leaving his firm with a more problematic risk pool.
High-risk applicants can be excluded, Mr. Burry said, because at some point "taking a little company with an individual with awful problems is not insurance." He added, "We know we're going to have to pay."
In his proposal, Mr. Bush will offer tax credits for poor people and tax deductions for middle-income people, to help them buy health insurance. Administration officials in Washington said Mr. Bush's plan would cost $100 billion over five years. It would be financed mainly by limiting the growth of Medicaid and Medicare.
Speaking today to small-business executives in Washington, Mr. Bush said: "There are two fundamental health-care choices. We can adopt a system that's been a proven failure all over the world -- nationalized health care -- or we can reform our present system, which has its faults, certainly, but which also provides the highest quality care on earth."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Malley's Chocolates in Cleveland participates in a project established by the Chamber of Commerce that helps small businesses offer cheaper, less comprehensive health policies to their workers. William M. Malley talked to Marie Ahrenot, left, and Pauline Robinson at the company's plant. (Barney Taxel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE GROUP CORP (83%); COMMERCE GROUP INC (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CLEVELAND (OHIO) UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; SMALL BUSINESS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); INSURANCE (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



209 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Bush's economic advisers said the economy would probably rebound in a few months, and they rebutted arguments that living standards have dropped under the Reagan and Bush Administrations. [Page D1.] 
 The productivity of American workers grew 1.1 percent in the fourth quarter but rose just 0.2 percent for the year. [D2.]
House Democrats agreed to press for a middle-class tax cut, paid for by higher taxes on upper-income taxpayers, despite opposition to any such increase by the Administration. [D2.]
Auto insurance fraud has become increasingly widespread and blatant in many areas of the U.S., and regulators say the insurance industry is doing relatively little to combat it. [A1.]
Advocates of privacy rights are challenging the National Security Agency over how much confidentiality people will have with new cellular telephones and wireless computers. [D1.]
Paper recycling standards due to be set by the E.P.A. will do little to divert waste paper from landfills, some say. [D4.]
 
Companies
Federated Department Stores left bankruptcy court after a two-year stay, and Wall Street gave its shares an enthusiastic welcome. [D1.]
American Express is trying to revive the Optima card's fortunes by reducing interest rates for its best customers and raising rates for others. [D5.]
Time Warner will acquire the 18 percent of American Television and Communications it does not already own. [D18.]
Two of Donald J. Trump's casinos promised New Jersey regulators that they would file for bankruptcy next month. [D4.]
The New York Times Co. agreed to acquire a wholesale newspaper delivery operation that distributes almost half of the copies of The Times sold in the New York area. [B1.]
 
International
Can Israel afford to welcome a flood of Soviet immigrants? Some say it can't afford not to. Economic Watch. [D1.]
Toyota and Nissan are seeking Commerce Dept. permission to extend favorable duties they now receive on imported parts for their U.S.-made cars to the increasing number of parts they will need under plans to expand production. [D2.]
Olivetti will break even or at best make a small profit in 1992 after heavy losses in 1991, its chief executive said. [D4.]
The auditor of B.C.C.I. said detection of the fraud had been delayed because representatives of the Government of Abu Dhabi withheld information. [D5.]
The Canadian Government, fighting a recession even more severe than in the U.S., has just begun its own program to spur housing demand and revive the economy. [D10.]
 
Markets
The Treasury said that to reduce borrowing costs it would cut the amount of bonds to be offered at next week's quarterly refunding auctions. [D1.]
Stock prices were mixed in heavy trading as blue chips lost ground at the end while secondary stocks made solid advances. The Dow lost 15.21, to 3,257.60. [D10.]
The dollar declined broadly as dealers took profits and stepped to the sidelines in advance of the unemployment report. [D8.]
Coffee futures slumped to new lows amid strong harvests and disarray among producing nations over limiting exports. [D8.]
 
Today's Columns
Mortgage-backed securities are luring more and more individual investors, but few investments are more complicated and potentially more risky. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
Like to draw? Just take J. Walter Thompson's offbeat test and land an art director's job. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D18.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (82%); M (NYSE) (55%); AXP (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (82%); MACY'S INC (55%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); AMERICAN TELEVISION & COMMUNICATIONS CORP (54%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (56%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (56%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE (75%); INSURANCE FRAUD (75%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (75%); ACCOUNTING (75%); WHOLESALERS (74%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (74%); BONDS (74%); WASTE REDUCTION (73%); LANDFILLS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); AUCTIONS (71%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); RETAILERS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%); IMMIGRATION (63%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (54%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); EXECUTIVES (50%); BOND ISSUES (50%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (90%); DONALD TRUMP (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



210 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Bush Aides See Gains Later in '92

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5

 BODY:
President Bush's economic advisers said today that the nation's sagging economy would probably rebound in a few months, and they rebutted arguments that living standards have dropped under the Reagan and Bush Administrations.
In the President's Annual Economic Report, the White House said the nation's economy would grow by a sluggish 1.6 percent this year if Congress did not pass the President's package of tax cuts and other measures meant to stimulate growth. If Congress enacted the program, the report said, growth would climb to 2.2 percent. 
 Some economists said that forecast exaggerated the stimulus the package would give the economy.
The report, more partisan than usual, said conditions were ripe for a recovery because interest rates, inflation and inventories were all low. "The economy is expected to be sluggish in the early months of 1992, but growth is expected to pick up in the middle part of the year," the report said.
 
Last Year's Expectations
 Last year's report also said that the recovery was around the corner, that the downturn would be mild and brief, and that it would end by the middle of 1991. Instead, a small upturn that began last spring stalled badly in the fall.
The report, which was signed by the President and the Council of Economic Advisers, said the recession was not the fault of the Bush Administration, blaming instead the invasion of Kuwait, the Federal Reserve and banks that drove themselves to ruin.
The report said that if the President's proposals are adopted, the nation's economy "is then expected to return to solid" economic growth of about 3 percent a year through the mid-1990's and unemployment is expected to fall to less than 5.5 percent from its current 7.1 percent rate.
In his State of the Union address last week, Mr. Bush called for cutting capital gains taxes, giving a $5,000 credit to first-time home buyers and increasing income tax deductions for families with children.
Speaking today to a group of small business executives, Mr. Bush urged them to back his program, calling it "a rifle shot approach" to spurring the economy. The description appeared to leave left some listeners puzzled.
The report said unemployment would reach a plateau or head slightly upward over the next few months but would drift down in the second half of the year.
Michael J. Boskin, chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, acknowledged that the White House's forecast might be wrong again. If consumer confidence turns up or the credit crunch ends sooner than expected, he said, the report may prove too pessimistic; if, for example, Europe's and Japan's economies remain sluggish, and as a result they import fewer American goods, the report may prove to be overly optimistic.
"You can't rule out the possibility that there will be some surprises," Mr. Boskin said in a news briefing.
In his introduction to the report, Mr. Bush said 1991 was a "challenging year for the American economy." He added, "Output was stagnant and unemployment rose."
Senator Paul Sarbanes, the Maryland Democrat who heads Congress's Joint Economic Committee, said: "The Administration is forecasting a very weak, anemic recovery that will leave us with all of the serious economic problems we have now. The important point is that we will be coming out of the longest recession in the postwar period with the weakest growth the nation has ever experienced after a recession."
 
Gap Between Rich and Poor
 The report acknowledged that income disparities between the rich and poor increased during the Reagan and Bush years, but it said that the poorest fifth of Americans, the middle fifth and the richest fifth have all enjoyed income gains over the last dozen years. The figures included earned and unearned income, like welfare payments. People in the remaining fifths are not included in the study.
Mr. Bush's potential Democratic opponents often assert that income has gone down or stagnated for everyone but the rich since 1973.
According to today's report, the median income of the highest fifth rose by 35 percent between 1967 and 1990, while income for the lowest fifth rose by 25 percent and for the middle fifth by 17 percent.
The report also rebutted Democratic criticisms that the real wages of American manufacturing workers have declined since 1980. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, weekly wages for the typical American manufacturing worker, adjusted for inflation, declined by 7 percent between 1980 and 1991, which generally means that a 35-year-old worker in 1991 earned less than a 35-year-old worker in 1990.
The President's economists approached the problem differently, citing studies showing that workers who were 25 years old in 1980 saw their wages rise by 1990 when they were 35 years old. According to the White House report, the earnings of high school dropouts 25 to 34 years old rose by 6 percent, while people with four years of high school rose by 5 percent, while people with four years of college rose 42 percent.
The report noted that productivity growth slowed in the 1980's and 1970's compared with previous decades and that this has slowed income growth. "A key factor contributing to the low productivity growth has been low capital formation," the report said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STANDARD OF LIVING; FORECASTS; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RECESSION (78%); FAMILY (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); PERSONAL FINANCE (66%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



211 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
U.S. Reduces Bond Supply For Auction

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
In an announcement eagerly anticipated in the credit markets, the Treasury said yesterday that to reduce borrowing costs it would cut the amount of bonds to be offered at next week's quarterly refunding auctions.
To meet its financing needs, the Treasury is now expected to come to market with more securities with shorter maturities, because in today's market it will pay far less interest on those securities. 
 Since there is now an unusually wide spread between short- and long-term rates, politicians and academics have been urging the Treasury to take this step for weeks, arguing that the move would not only lower borrowing costs, but might also help bring down long-term interest rates, a development that would help the still-stagnant economy.
The reduction in the auction, to $10 billion, from $12 billion in November, was more or less in line with market expectations. In an apparent effort to eliminate future uncertainty, the Treasury said it would not make further cuts in the amount of 30-year securities at subsequent debt sales.
The Government sells its benchmark long-term bonds four times a year.
The bonds are part of a $36 billion auction package that also includes $11 billion of new 10-year notes and $15 billion of new three-year notes.
The overall amount of the securities to be sold was somewhat smaller than most analysts had expected, a pleasant surprise for those concerned about the market's ability to absorb the huge volume of securities offered at the refunding auctions.
"They are going to be coming with a lot more short-term paper," one trader said. "Over time, that means the money they might save by selling fewer bonds will probably be lost due to higher rates on short-term paper."
Market reaction to the announcement was mildly positive, as prices of Treasury securities rose in light trading.
But analysts were more critical of the Treasury's step. They accused the Treasury of bowing to political pressure by cutting the size of the bond auction and suggested that it might happen again, even though the Treasury said it had no such intention. Finally, while the move may indeed pare borrowing costs over the next year or two, analysts said the move could well lead to higher costs later on.
The modest size of the cut in the bond supply suggested to analysts that the Treasury felt that its consistent, predictable approach to debt management would have been badly compromised if it had done more.
"It is fairly clear that with these modest cuts they are showing they did it reluctantly," said Louis v. B. Crandall, chief economist at R. H. Wrightson & Associates, an economic consulting firm in New York.
 
'Traders Won't Remember'
 "But the fact that they got pressured into doing something they didn't want to do will legitimately raise the question of whether they will do it again. I believe the Treasury when they say they don't want to cut it any more. But traders won't remember those statements. They will remember Treasury's actions."
Given the current configuration of interest rates, Mr. Crandall and others said that selling more short-term debt now would probably lower the Government's borrowing costs for the next year or so.
The danger, they said, is that interest rates will be higher, perhaps much higher, when those issues mature, and the Treasury is back in the market.
"That is true, and that is one of the reasons we made a relatively modest incremental change," Jerome H. Powell, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for domestic finance, said in a telephone interview. "But we believe we can modestly reduce taxpayer costs through a modest reduction in the average life of the outstanding debt."
The auctions will begin on Tuesday, with the three-year note sale, and conclude on Feb. 13, when the 30-year bonds are scheduled to be sold.
 
Reopens Notes and Bonds
 The Treasury said that rather than offer new 10-year and 30-year securities it would reopen the outstanding 7.50 percent 10-year notes and the 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021.
In when-issued trading following the announcement, the three-year notes were offered at a price to yield 5.53 percent. The 10-year notes were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 7.20 percent. And the 30-year bonds were offered at a price to yield 7.74 percent.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 percent 30-year bonds were offered late yesterday at a price of 1036/32 , up 10/32 , to yield 7.72 percent, compared with 7.74 percent late Tuesday.
Among outstanding Treasury note issues, the 7.50 percent 10-year notes were offered at 102 1/4, up 21/32 , to yield 7.17 percent. And the 4 7/8 percent two-year notes were offered at 9922/32 , up 2/32 , to yield 5.04 percent.
Short-term Treasury bill rates were little changed.
Three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 3.82 percent late yesterday, unchanged from late Tuesday. Six-month bill rates fell by one basis point, or one one-hundredth of a percentage point, to a late offered rate of 3.86 percent.
 
New Junk Bonds
 In other developments, new-issue activity picked up in the market for high-yield junk bonds, as two companies priced issues.
The Penn Traffic Company offered $125 million worth of senior notes through an underwriting group led by Goldman, Sachs & Company.
The 10 1/4 percent securities, which mature Feb. 15, 2002, are noncallable for five years. They were priced at $100, or par.
The issue is rated Ba-3 by Moody's Investors Service and B by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
Salomon Brothers acted as lead manager on a $100 million offering of senior secured debentures for Safeway Inc.
The 9.30 percent securities, which mature Feb. 1, 2007, were priced at $100, or par. They are rated Ba-1 by Moody's and BB by Standard & Poor's.
In the investment-grade corporate bond market, Consolidated Edison offered $300 million worth of securities in a two-part sale.
Half the issue consists of 7 5/8 percent 12-year debentures that mature March 1, 2004. They were priced at $99.225 to yield 7.72 percent, 47 basis points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 7.50 percent 10-year notes at the time of pricing.
The remaining $150 million worth of securities carry a coupon of 7 3/8 percent and mature on Sept. 15, 2000. They were priced at $99.435 to yield 7.46 percent, 40 basis points over the prevailing yield on Treasury securities of comparable maturity.
Goldman, Sachs acted as lead manager for the issue. The securities are rated AA-2 by Moody's and AA- by Standard & Poor's.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" shows the average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates, in percent from Oct. '91-Feb. '92. (Source: federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) (pg. D16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); BONDS (91%); DEBT NOTES (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BOND ISSUES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



212 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Productivity Rose 1.1% in the 4th Quarter

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5

 BODY:
The productivity of American workers increased moderately in the last three months of 1991 but barely rose for the year, the Government said today.
Productivity -- output per hour of work -- grew 1.1 percent for non-farm workers in the fourth quarter but just two-tenths of 1 percent for the year after falling one-tenth of 1 percent in 1990 and nine-tenths of 1 percent in 1989. 
 The Labor Department's regular productivity figures generally follow fluctuations in the business cycle and the inability of debt-laden corporations to invest in modern equipment, economists says.
They say the statistics will not shed much light on the recent debate over the efficiency and energy of American workers. Several Japanese officials have criticized the United States for a failure to maintain a work ethic.
Productivity nearly always slacks off as the economy enters a recession, as it did in July 1990, because sales and factory production fall faster than businesses can trim payrolls.
The reverse occurs when recoveries begin. Businesses are reluctant to begin hiring again until they are sure sales and production gains will be sustained.
Examined by quarter, productivity was weakest in the last half of 1990, falling in both the third and fourth quarters. The last nine months of 1991 have seen moderate gains, with the fourth-quarter rise following increases of 1.9 percent in the second quarter and nine-tenths of 1 percent in the third.
"The fact that the economy was able to crank out productivity when we were struggling to get out of recession, I find promising," said Maury N. Harris, an economist with Paine Webber Inc.
Other analysts, however, said that even after discounting the effects of the business cycle, productivity gains were still too slight to sustain robust, noninflationary economic growth.
"I wouldn't go overboard and say it's getting worse, but the fundamental problem we've had for a long time is probably still in place," said Lawrence Chimerine, senior adviser to DRI-McGraw Hill, a forecasting firm in Lexington, Mass.
Annual productivity growth averaged 2.4 percent in the 1960's, 1.3 percent in the 1970's and eight-tenths of 1 percent in the 1980's.
Today's report showed that productivity of factory employees increased faster than among non-farm workers generally. Factory productivity rose 1.4 percent in 1991 after an advance of 2.5 percent in 1990.
Fourth-quarter manufacturing productivity rose 1.5 percent after a strong 4 percent gain in the third quarter.
Since most international trade is in manufactured goods, rather than in services, factory productivity is an important gauge of competitiveness.
Total business productivity, including farming, rose two-tenths of 1 percent for the year, the same rate as in 1990, and 1.6 percent in the fourth quarter.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "U.S. Productivity" shows the index of hourly output of all people in non-farm businesses from '87-'91. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (52%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; PRODUCTIVITY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY PRODUCTIVITY (94%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



213 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Olivetti Chief Says Europe Falls Behind

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Feb. 5

 BODY:
Carlo de Benedetti, the chief executive of Ing. C. Olivetti & Company, the Italian computer maker, announced today that his company would break even or at best make a small profit in 1992 after heavy losses in 1991.
His grim statement, coupled with a warning of the possible "de-industrialization of Europe" and a bitter attack on I.B.M.'s recent investment in the French computer maker Groupe Bull, amounted to a striking reflection of Europe's current economic gloom. 
 The man who transformed Olivetti from a tired typewriter manufacturer into a dynamic leader of the European computer industry, and so became a symbol of European economic renewal, presented himself today as an entrepreneur facing an uphill battle in a continent reacting too slowly to global competition.
"If our assumptions on the economy are correct -- that is to say, no recovery but no deep recession -- then we expect break-even or perhaps a small profit at Olivetti this year," Mr. de Benedetti told reporters at the annual World Economic Forum, a gathering of executives, government officials and academics, which is being held at this ski resort.
 
Loss Growing Deeper
 Olivetti's 1991 results have not yet been announced. But the company lost $61 million in the first half of the year and analysts expect losses to be heavier in the second half. This dismal showing marks the end of a 13-year string of profits at the company and has dented the image Mr. de Benedetti enjoyed in the 1980's of an industrialist with a Midas touch.
With 1990 sales of $7.6 billion, Olivetti is one of Europe's leading computer makers. But like other companies in the sector, it has suffered from fierce international competition, plunging prices and the difficulties of operating in Europe's fragmented $60 billion computer market.
In effect, Mr. de Benedetti, who resumed day-to-day management of the company late last year in a bid to reverse the slide, has been unable to shield the company from a continentwide slump.
Groupe Bull last week announced a wide-ranging technical and commercial agreement with I.B.M., under which the American company will invest about $100 million and provide Bull with its reduced instruction set computing, or RISC, technology. But Mr. de Benedetti lambasted the accord as nothing more than "Bull selling I.B.M. a distribution channel on the cheap." He said that I.B.M. had made a similar offer to Olivetti about six months ago, but that he had turned it down.
"We don't want to become a distributor of I.B.M. products," he said. "You can't make money that way. But I guess Bull had no choice."
No one was immediately available for comment at I.B.M.'s offices in Paris.
Mr. de Benedetti said Olivetti aimed to push ahead with plans to cut 2,500 jobs this year and would seek to exploit its strong position in the open-systems area -- networks adaptable to different kinds of computers.
Mr. de Benedetti, who owns 42 percent of Olivetti's stock, said Europe was generally reacting too slowly and too disjointedly to Japanese and United States competition. "We're now faced with the threat of the de-industrialization of Europe," he declared. "But Europe cannot survive as a continent of consumers."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BULL (PAR) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (85%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (85%); SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (62%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); SWITZERLAND (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

COMPANY: OLIVETTI, ING C, & CO BULL SAS (85%); ACCORD AS (62%); EUROPEAN COMPUTER INDUSTRY RESEARCH CENTER GMBH (57%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: OLIVETTI, ING C, & CO WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); SWITZERLAND (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

SUBJECT: FORECASTS COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); OFFICE EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SKIING (69%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; DE BENEDETTI, CARLO CARLO DE BENEDETTI (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



214 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
USAir Marketing Chief Is Coming From United

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
USAir turned to United Air Lines to recruit its vice president of marketing, announcing yesterday that W. Thomas Lagow, United's senior vice president of planning, would take the post.
He will replace Randall Malin, who was ousted as the head of marketing by Seth E. Schofield, the chairman of the USAir Group Inc., the parent company. Mr. Schofield has been seeking to end the airline's heavy losses and problems, which were largely caused by the absorption of Piedmont Airlines in the 80's. 
 USAir, based in Arlington, Va., said Mr. Malin had resigned to pursue other opportunities but an internal memorandum, reported yesterday in The Wall Street Journal, said he was forced from his position.
Mr. Lagow, 50, joined United in 1988. He has been in the airline business for 25 years, holding marketing positions at Trans World Airlines Inc. and Republic Airlines, then joining Northwest Airlines when it absorbed Republic.
The move is unusual in that Mr. Lagow joins a carrier that is beset by losses and has fallen behind in the expansion into international markets.
United, on the other hand, has built a huge international network to Europe and Latin America and has become the world's first true global carrier.
Mr. Lagow holds a bachelor's degree in economics from the University of Missouri and a master's in mathematics and economics from the University of California in Los Angeles. At United, a unit of the UAL Corporation, he was responsible for scheduling, pricing, inventory management, and route and fleet planning.
Mr. Lagow is a board member of the Airline Tariff Publishing Company, a computer network owned by the airlines that provides instant information about the tens of thousands of changes in domestic air fares.
He and his wife live in Laguna Niguel, Calif., with their daughter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (94%); UAL (NYSE) (91%); DAL (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (94%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (94%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); LATIN AMERICA (68%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (76%); MISSOURI, USA (52%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: USAIR INC U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (94%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (91%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); AIRLINE TARIFF PUBLISHING CO (66%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: USAIR INC UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); LATIN AMERICA (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (76%); MISSOURI, USA (52%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); AIR FARES (78%); PUBLISHING (69%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS; LAGOW, THOMAS; MALIN, RANDALL ANN LIVERMORE (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



215 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Optima Credit Card to Charge Higher Rates to Riskier Holders

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The American Express Company is trying to revive the fortunes of its Optima credit card by reducing interest rates for its best customers and raising rates for those most likely to become delinquent or to default.
The strategy comes after American Express discovered that its four-year-old Optima operation had lost about $150 million in 1991. The change is similar to what other credit card issuers have done to make more distinctions between their best customers and others. 
 "We want to offer cards that will encourage good financial behavior among our customers," said Frank Skillern, president of Centurion Bank, a Delaware-based subsidiary of American Express that has issued more than three million Optima cards. "We make more money on customers who qualify for the lowest interest rate, so this is a situation where both the company and the customer are winners."
 
Making Distinctions
 In recent weeks, as consumers seem to have become more aware of the gap between high credit card interest rates and other rates, many banks have been offering lower-rate cards to high-quality customers and experimenting with ways to charge higher rates to riskier customers.
"Banks have known for many years that they could make money offering lower interest rates to their best customers; now they are doing it" said David Robertson, vice president at the Nilson Report, a newsletter published in Santa Monica, Calif., that covers the credit card industry.
The public's zeal for low-interest-rate cards helped banks who issue cards with rates below 16.5 percent increase their accounts by 9.8 percent last year, while growth for banks charging 18 percent or more was flat, according to the RAM Research Corporation of Frederick, Md.
People's Bank in Bridgeport, Conn., for example, began offering an 11.9 percent rate late last month. Patricia E. Matteson, senior vice president, noted, though, that "most of our cardholders are also homeowners, and we don't issue cards to students."
Citibank, the nation's largest issuer of credit cards, with more than 21 million accounts, is planning a test mailing next month to offer some consumers a card with an initial rate of 15.9 percent. The rate would increase to 19.9 percent if the customer became delinquent.
 
Three Categories
 Unlike many banks that have been offering lower interest rates or waiving annual fees for selected customers without any public announcement, Optima yesterday detailedits criteria for dividing its customers into three categories. The company will continue to charge an annual fee of $15, but its floating interest rate, now 16.25 percent, will be changed beginning June 1.
Customers who have had no late payments in the last year on their Optima or American Express cards and who have been customers for at least a year and have charged at least $1,000 on the Optima card, will pay the lowest rate, 12.5 percent.
Customers who have not been late with payments but do not meet the tenure or spending requirements will pay 14.75 percent. Customers who have been late with at least one payment will pay 18.75 percent.
Optima said the interest rates on cash advances would be 18.4 percent for its most risky customers and 17.4 for the other two categories. It will also limit the amount of cash advances to as little as 20 percent of the approved credit line for customers of less than a year's standing and 70 percent for customers of three years or more.
Every six months, at the beginning of January and July, customers will be re-evaluated based on the previous year. Mr. Skillern said a good customer who was a few days late with one payement would not be automatically shifted to the higher rates but would be reassigned if the delinquency extended over a few months.
Maureen Bailey, a spokeswoman for American Express, said the vast majorty of card holders would pay the two lower rates.
To reduce its losses, Optima is tightening its credit standards. Although more than 90 percent of Optima's customers hold American Express cards, Optima has found that some American Express customers keep those cards in good standing because they are used for business but are not so careful with their Optima cards.
Bankers say that delinquent accounts are costly because of the payment reminders delivered through the mail or by telephone. Indeed, even in accounts that are not delinquent, the costs of mailing and preparing regular statements can absorb most of the annual fee, leaving little profit if the customer does not use the card frequently, bankers say.
In 1991 Optima wrote off as a loss about 10 percent of its nearly $4 billion of credit card loans, or about twice the average for all Visa and Mastercards.
After losing about $150 million last year, Mr. Skillern said he expected Optima to show a small loss this year and a small profit in 1993. Within three years, he said, Optima should earn a good profit, though he noted that increased competition in the credit card business could limit profits to about $1.50 to $2 for every $100 of loans taken on the card, down from the $2.50 or more many banks earned before the recession.
Despite the problems with Optima, Mr. Skillern said American Express remained committed to it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (98%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (98%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (65%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (57%); CONNECTICUT, USA (53%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (53%); FREDERICK, MD, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (98%); RAM RESEARCH CORP (65%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF ELKTON INC (53%); PEOPLE'S BANK & TRUST CO (53%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF ZANZIBAR (53%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF VIRGINIA BEACH (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (57%); CONNECTICUT, USA (53%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (53%); FREDERICK, MD, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS CREDIT CARDS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (73%); TEST MARKETING (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL FRANK SKILLERN (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



216 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Canada Moves to Spur Consumers Into Buying

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TORONTO, Feb. 5

 BODY:
The Canadian Government, fighting a recession even more severe than in the United States, has just begun its own program to spur housing demand and revive the economy along with its political fortunes.
Like the measures President Bush proposed last week, the Canadian actions are meant to raise the entire economy on a wave of demand by new homeowners for appliances, furniture and other consumer items. These actions could well give the United States a look at the possible results of its own program. 
 The programs, despite their differences, underscore the parallels between these economies. The two Governments are fighting huge deficits, which limit room to maneuver. Ottawa's accumulated debt is proportionately about as large as Washington's. Yet unemployment here is more than 10 percent, against around 7 percent in the United States.
In its first concrete response to widespread demands for pump-priming, Ottawa has announced that effective immediately the minimum down payment for first-time home buyers under Government programs will be halved.
 
Called Long Overdue
 The Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, which backs mortgages much as the Federal Housing Administration and the Veterans Administration do in Washington, will insure loans of as much as 95 percent of a home's value, instead of 90 percent.
Builders said the action was long overdue and should lead to at least a 15 percent increase in new housing this year. Canada's construction industry is desperate for work, having started only 156,000 units last year, the least since the 1981-83 recession.
"This is the vote of confidence consumers need from the Government to spur them on to make buying decisions," said Gary Reardon, president of the Canadian Home Builders Association.
Even at 5 percent, where the minimum down payment had been until an explosion in borrowing in 1982, the rate is higher than under United States Government programs, where home buyers may now put down as little as 3 percent. Until regulations were tightened last year, Americans had been able to put even less down.
Some economists still question whether more borrowing is truly what the Canadian economy now needs. At the end of the last recession, many homeowers walked away from mortgages that exceeded the depressed values of their homes, leaving the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation's insurance fund deep in the red.
Potentially as significant as the easier down payment terms was Finance Minister Donald Mazankowski's statement in the House of Commons that the Government would also permit withdrawals from Canada's equivalent of individual retirement accounts for first-time home purchases.
His idea is to allow as much as $7,500 to be taken out of Registered Retirement Savings Plans, which have been in place since 1957 and now hold more than $100 billion of Canadian savings. The money could be used for down payments without penalties or taxes.
Only a few weeks ago, Government officials had described such a withdrawal plan as unworkable and risky. The turnabout perhaps reflected the economy's further deterioration. Government forecasts for renewed growth have been reduced this year even as interest rates and inflation have dropped sharply.
"They're desperate and groping for anything that will improve the economic situation," said Robert Blohm, a Toronto investment banker.
The painless withdrawals from the retirement fund, economists said, could have the same sort of impact as the $5,000 tax credit for first-time home buyers proposed by President Bush in his State of the Union Message to Congress last week.
The difference is that while the President depends on Congressional approval, the Government in Ottawa, which controls a large majority of the seats in the House of Commons, can readily enact what it proposes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (70%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); 

COMPANY: CANADA MORTGAGE & HOUSING CORP (70%); HOUSE OF COMMONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF COMMONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRENDS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); VETERANS (66%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (63%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



217 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Time Warner to Take Over Cable Operator

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
Time Warner Inc. and the American Television and Communications Corporation said yesterday that they had reached an agreement under which Time Warner would acquire the 18 percent of the cable television systems operator that it does not already own.
The arrangement, which has been approved by the boards of the companies, will make easier for Time Warner to put American Television into the $1 billion joint venture it plans to form with C. Itoh & Company and the Toshiba Corporation, both of Japan. 
 Time Warner has agreed to sell those companies a 12.5 percent stake in Time Warner Entertainment, an entity that will include its cable television systems, the Home Box Office premium cable channel and the Warner Brothers film and television studio.
 
Advantage for Time Warner
 American Television, based in Stamford, Conn., is one of the nation's largest operators of cable television systems.
For Time Warner, the advantage of the deal is that it does not require the company to pay out any cash for slightly more than three and a half years. And the deal will give Time Warner the right to use the cash flow from American Television.
American Television has 19.7 million shares outstanding, and Time Warner plans to convert each share into the right to receive $82.50 of Time Warner notes.
Either Time Warner or the holder of the note can convert it to $82.50 in some combination of cash and paper on Aug. 15, 1995, or to $82.50 plus accrued interest three years later. The notes are due in 2002.
In over-the-counter trading yesterday, American Television's shares gained $1.125, to $58. Time Warner's shares also rose, gaining $1.50, to $93.50, on the New York Stock Exchange.
 
Somewhat Sweetened Deal
 The deal with American Television has been somewhat sweetened from a previous proposal. Several months ago, Time Warner offered preferred stock that could be redeemed for $75 a share three years after it was issued. The initial deal had a total value of $1.47 billion. The revised offer is valued at $1.62 billion.
In the new deal, the notes can be redeemed either at the discretion of Time Warner or the holder. The notes pay cash interest semi-annually at market rates, with a cap of 11 percent a year.
The notes can be redeemed, as Time Warner chooses, in any combination of cash, Time Warner securities or other securities.
If Time Warner calls the notes, holders can get any combination of cash, debt issued by Time Warner or a subsidiary or the exchange debentures underlying its Series C and D preferred stock.
If interest rates are relatively low and Time Warner can refinance its debt, it may want to give holders debentures or cash, depending on what the company can borrow. But if the bond market is not favorable, the company might want the right to give holders whatever financial instruments suits its needs.
Mario Gabelli, whose company, Gamco Investors, holds 1.55 million shares of American Television stock, said the deal was very good for Time Warner because it gave the company more flexiblity with American Television's cash flow and borrowing.
He noted that the deal was somewhat better than the previous offer. But, he said, the company had eliminated a conversion feature that was part of the previous offer, which would have given American Television's shareholders the right to own Time Warner stock and benefit from any gain in the shares.
Along with Gamco Investors, American Television's large shareholders include the Alliance Capital Management Corporation, the Capital Research and Management Company and Fidelity Investments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (97%); TOS (LSE) (83%); 6502 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (97%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (97%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN TELEVISION & COMMUNICATIONS CORP; TIME WARNER INC TIME WARNER INC (97%); AMERICAN TELEVISION & COMMUNICATIONS CORP (94%); TOSHIBA CORP (83%); C ITOH & CO LTD (72%); HOME BOX OFFICE INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN TELEVISION & COMMUNICATIONS CORP; TIME WARNER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%); CONNECTICUT, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (91%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PREFERRED STOCK (87%); BONDS (87%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (74%); CASH FLOW (72%); APPROVALS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); FILM (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); BOND MARKETS (64%); 

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



218 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: Times Mirror Posts a Loss

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 5

 BODY:
The Times Mirror Company said today that it lost $13 million in the fourth quarter and that profits plunged 55 percent for the year as the recession continued to hurt the news business.
The quarterly loss compared with income of $45.6 million, or 35 cents a share, in the previous year's quarter. Revenues for the quarter were $975.8 million, up from $956.5 million. 
 The company's shares rose $1.625, to $35.625, in trading today on the New York Stock Exchange.
Times Mirror, whose flagship is The Los Angeles Times, attributed much of the quarterly loss to a $65 million write-down linked to the $95 million sale of The Denver Post in 1987. Times Mirror, which bought The Post in 1980 for $95 million, has said that notes it received in the sale of The Post to a Media News Group affiliate cannot be repaid on time.
The Los Angeles-based media company also recorded charges related to a Los Angeles Times early-retirement program, a voluntary severance program at The Baltimore Sun and others.
In addition to The Times and The Sun, Times Mirror publishes Newsday and New York Newsday and several other East Coast newspapers, and has interests in cable and broadcast TV, as well as book, magazine and other publishing businesses.
For 1991, Times Mirror reported income of $82 million, or 64 cents a share, down from $180.5 million, or $1.40 a share, the year before. The year's revenues were $3.62 billion, down from $3.63 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: TIMES MIRROR CO TIMES MIRROR CO (96%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (84%); DENVER POST CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIMES MIRROR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); PUBLISHING (73%); CABLE INDUSTRY (73%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (66%); CABLE TELEVISION (65%); EARLY RETIREMENT (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



219 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Paul A. Freund, Authority On Constitution, Dies at 83

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE

 BODY:
Paul A. Freund, an authority on constitutional law and the Supreme Court who taught at Harvard Law School for 37 years, died yesterday at his home at Cambridge, Mass. He was 83 years old.
Professor Freund, who retired in 1976 as Carl M. Loeb University Professor, died of cancer of the sinus, said Michael Chmura, a spokesman for the law school. 
 A former dean of the law school, James Vorenberg, yesterday called Professor Freund "the dominant figure of his time in the field of constitutional law."
In his teaching and writings and as an official of the United States Solicitor General's office in the 1930's and 1940's, Professor Chmura was a leading exponent of a relatively flexible interpretation of the Constitution in economic and social matters. He favored giving Congress and the states power to deal with the economic crisis of the 1930's and to take measures to prevent a recurrence of the Great Depression and to forestall other crises.
 
Crucial Court Role Envisioned
 In Professor Freund's view, the judicial system, with the Supreme Court at its apex, had a crucial role to play. In his 1961 book "The Supreme Court of the United States" (World Publishing Company), he wrote that the role of the courts in maintaining a working federalism was one of "mediation between large principles and particular problems, of interposing intermediate principles" that are "more tentative, experimental and pragmatic."
"The courts," he added, "are the substations that transform the high-tension charge of the philosophers into the reduced voltage of a serviceable current."
Admirers of Professor Freund said yesterday that over the years his teachings and writings had made law students, at Harvard and elsewhere, take a more supple view of the Constitution. They said he had played an important role in the movement to read the Constitution more generously in economics, while giving deeper protection to individual liberties of speech and press and racial justice.
 
Turned Down Kennedy Offer
 In the 1930's Professor Freund became staunch in his advocacy of reading the Constitution in such a way as to give Congress more freedom to experiment in measures to end the Depression and to provide what later came to be called a safety net against economic and other problems. While he was in the Solicitor General's office, from 1935 to 1939 and again from 1942 to 1946, he argued, or otherwise assisted in, court cases that tested such matters.
Three decades later, Professor Freund figured as a potential appointee as Solicitor General under President John F. Kennedy.
But as Professor Freund later recalled to friends, when Kennedy offered the position to him he turned it down on the ground that he wanted to continue working on a history of the Supreme Court, of which he was the general editor. To that the President replied: "I'm sorry. I hoped you would prefer making history to writing it."
 
Considered for High Court
 Then, early in 1962, Kennedy considered naming Professor Freund to a vacant seat on the Supreme Court, but chose Deputy Attorney General Byron R. White for the seat. And when another Supreme Court vacancy arose later that year, the historian Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. wrote in his 1965 book "A Thousand Days," Kennedy "inclined at first toward Freund," but eventually chose Arthur Goldberg.
Paul Abraham Freund was born Feb. 16, 1908, in St. Louis, the son of Charles Freund and the former Hulda Arenson. He earned a bachelor's degree from Washington University in St. Louis in 1928, a bachelor of laws degree from Harvard in 1931 -- serving as president of the editorial board of the Harvard Law Review -- and a doctorate in law, also from Harvard, in 1932.
In 1932 and 1933 he was a law clerk to Justice Louis Brandeis. He then was an official of the Treasury Department and the Reconstruction Finance Corporation from 1933 to 1935.
 
Three Endowed Chairs
 When he joined the Harvard Law School faculty in 1939 it was first as a lecturer specializing in conflict of laws as well as in constitutional law. He became a professor of law in 1940 and then held three endowed chairs in succession: he was Charles Stebbins Fairchild Professor, beginning in 1950; Royall Professor of Law, beginning in 1957, and Carl M. Loeb University Professor, beginning in 1958.
His other writings included the books "On Law and Justice" (Harvard University Press) and "On Understanding the Supreme Court" (Little, Brown).
He was the editor of "Experimentation with Human Subjects" (George Braziller) and co-editor of "Cases on Constitutional Law" (Little, Brown). He was for some years the editor-in-chief of the multivolume "History of the Supreme Court," of which, Mr. Chmura said, additional volumes are planned.
Professor Freund was a fellow and past president of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
There are no immediate family survivors.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul A. Freund (National Endowment for the Humanities, 1975)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (68%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WORLD PUBLISHING CO INC (68%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); DEATHS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); LAWYERS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); PUBLISHING (66%); HEAD & NECK CANCER (57%); 

PERSON: FREUND, PAUL A; PACE, ERIC JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



220 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Declines Worldwide In Advance of Jobs Report

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar declined broadly in global trading yesterday as dealers took profits and stepped to the sidelines in advance of the unemployment report scheduled for tomorrow.
Gold prices also declined worldwide. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery settled at $355.60 an ounce, off 60 cents. The Republic National Bank said gold slipped 25 cents an ounce, to a late bid of $355.45. 
 Currency trading opened on a quiet note with the pace accelerating as the session wore on. Analysts said the dollar was trading at the low end of its recent trading range.
 
'Not Doing Anything'
 "Trading was influenced by technical factors rather than any fundamental" news, said Kevin Lawrie, director of foreign exchange at the Bank of Boston. He said traders were "not doing anything" before the Labor Department's release of the unemployment data for January.
"If it is worse than expected, the market would assume another rate cut, and that's negative for the dollar," he said. When the Federal Reserve trims interest rates to stimulate the economy, it reduces the value of dollar-denominated securities.
In addition, German monetary officials have indicated rates there would remain at current levels for some time, said Stephen Flanagan, a vice president at the Mitsubishi Bank.
With foreign rates remaining relatively high and United States rates possibly poised to decline, money managers have more incentive to keep investments overseas to capture higher yields, another negative for the dollar.
In Tokyo, the dollar fell 0.14 yen, to 126.11. Later in London, it was quoted at 125.80 yen. In New York, the dollar settled at 125.56 yen, down from 126.15 on Tuesday.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.8060, from $1.8010 late Tuesday. In New York, it cost $1.8150 to buy a pound, more expensive than Tuesday's $1.8015.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Tuesday rates, included: 1.5815 German marks, down from 1.5930; 1.4120 Swiss francs, down from 1.4220; 5.3890 French francs, down from 5.4270; 1,188.50 Italian lire, down from 1,197.00, and 1.1796 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1814.
Gold fell in London to a late bid of $354.35 an ounce, from $356.35 late on Tuesday. In Zurich, gold fell to a closing bid of $353.80 from $356.05. Markets were closed in Hong Kong for the Lunar New Year holiday and will reopen tomorrow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); JAPAN (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); ZURICH (75%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); JAPAN (53%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); ZURICH (75%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); BRITISH POUND (76%); GERMAN MARK (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (67%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (63%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



221 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Yields on Tax-Exempt Money Funds Jump

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH M. FOWLER

 BODY:
The seven-day yields of tax-exempt funds tended to rise quite sharply for the week ended Monday, while the taxable money funds showed declines for the seven days ended Tuesday, according to IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report.
Referring to the tax-exempts, Walter Frank, an economist for the organization, said, "Once more after a lull, a bigger supply of municipal issues is coming into the market, and that has helped drive up the seven-day yields because demand by the funds has been steady." 
 The seven-day compound average yield for the tax-exempt funds rose to 2.95 percent, up from 2.75 percent the previous week, while the seven-day simple yield also rose by 20 basis points, to 2.91 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of 1 percent.
During the period, the 30-day compound yield dropped sharply, to 2.92 percent from 3.21 percent, and the 30-day simple yield fell to 2.88, from the previous week's 3.16 percent. Thirty-day yields do not reflect reversals in direction as quickly as the seven-day yields do.
The top Connecticut fund was Fidelity Spartan Connecticut Municipal Money Market Portfolio, which reported a seven-day compound yield of 3.35 percent, compared with 3.22 percent reported by the previous week's leader.
In New Jersey, the top fund once again was Fidelity Spartan New Jersey Municipal Money Market Portfolio, with a yield of 3.46, up 20 basis points from the previous week.
In New York, the top fund again was Salomon Brothers New York Municipal Money Market. It had a seven-day compound yield of 3.77, up from 3.60 percent last week.
Assets of the tax-exempt funds, which had risen to a record of $98.1 billion two weeks ago, continued to decline from that level, losing about $34 million to settle at $97.1 billion.
Donoghue's said the average number of days to maturity of securities held in the tax-free portfolios was unchanged at 51 days.
Of the funds monitored by IBC/Donoghue's with assets larger than $100 million, the Strong Municipal Money Market Fund, based in Milwaukee, continued to lead, with a seven-day compound yield of 3.84 percent, up from 3.74 percent a week ago.
Meanwhile, assets of the taxable funds dropped by $788 million, to $504.3 billion, while the average number of days to maturity of their holdings remained unchanged at 56 days.
As for the taxables, Mr. Frank said the yields continued to be sensitive to Federal Reserve policy. "Yields are still declining in response to the Federal Reserve action in December," he said, "and in addition there was a subsequent decline in money market rates earlier this year, which was partly seasonal. We are in the bottoming-out phase now."
The average seven-day compound taxable yield fell 7 basis points, to 4.00 percent, while the seven-day simple yield also fell 7 points, to 3.92 percent.
At the same time, the 30-day compound yield declined to 4.14 percent, from 4.27 percent, and the 30-day simple yield dropped 12 points, to 4.06 percent.
The taxable fund with the highest seven-day compound return for the week was again Fidelity Spartan Money Market fund, with a yield of 4.83 percent, compared with 4.95 percent a week ago.
By comparison, the average bank money market account, a prime competitor of money funds, was at 3.83 percent, according to The Bank Rate Monitor's national index.


GRAPHIC: Following are average annual effective yields, in percent, on money-market accounts and C.D.'s offered on February 5, 1992 by the 10 largest banks and savings institutions in each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas.

 	 	 	New York	3.78	3.76	Los Angeles	3.85	3.98	Chicago	3.83	4.01	San Francisco	3.76	3.95	Philadelphia	3.93	3.95	Detroit	3.85	3.93	Boston	3.91	4.10	Houston	3.71	3.85	Dallas	3.71	3.85	Washington	3.94	4.12	Bank Rate Monitor Index*	3.83	3.95	

*Annual effective yields offered by 100 large institutions in the 10 largest U.S. markets.
 
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, 33408)
 
Graphs: "Maturities" shows average days to maturity of securities held in money market mutual fund portfolios from Feb. '91-Feb. '92. (Source: Donoghue's Money Fund Report); "Consumer Money Rates" shows Donoghue's Money Fund seven-day compounded average yield and the Bank Rate Monitor national index of money-market accounts from Oct. '91-Feb. '92. (Sources: Bank Rate Monitor, and IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report)
Table: "Regional Bank Rates"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKS AND BANKING; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BONDS (78%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, ELIZABETH M WALTER FRANK (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



222 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Lending for Peace in Israel

 BODY:
The Bush Administration is fashioning a fair and sensible response to Israel's request for $10 billion in U.S. loan guarantees. Israel has sought the guarantees for a valid purpose: to raise money for the absorption of Jewish immigrants from the former Soviet Union. The hitch has been Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir's massive expansion of Israeli settlements on the West Bank and in Gaza. These settlements are designed to strengthen Israel's hold on the disputed territories, thereby undermining a Washington-promoted Middle East peace initiative.
Secretary of State Baker is rightly demanding that Israel halt building of new settlements as a condition for receiving American loan guarantees. At the same time he offers a face-saving concession. Israel would be able to complete the housing units already being built. No American funds would support this construction; the U.S. would deduct from each year's guarantees an amount matching expenditures on roads and housing in the disputed territories. 
 As Thomas Friedman of The Times reports, no final bargain is expected before the impending Israeli elections. For now, Mr. Baker has quietly outlined a position that Americans can support and that Mr. Shamir can oppose only at some political risk. Assuming that crucial details on what constitutes a "housing unit" can be resolved, the proposed compromise can improve chances for peace.
Pressed by his hard-line flank, Mr. Shamir has strenuously resisted any freeze on new settlements. Yet only this week, the Prime Minister conceded that Washington has a right to lay down conditions on how loan guarantee money is spent. And visiting leaders of American Jewish organizations recently warned Mr. Shamir that Israel will have to choose between loan guarantees and settlements.
Americans are broadly sympathetic with Israel's need to provide jobs and housing for as many as 400,000 immigrants from former Soviet lands. But this is primarily an Israeli interest. If Israel fails to absorb the immigrants effectively, it will have lost a historic opportunity to strengthen its economy and society and to perform its self-assigned role as a haven for Jewish refugees.
Secretary Baker still faces the tricky task of closing loopholes in any final loan-guarantee agreement that might allow Israeli authorities to multiply housing units on existing settlements. This has been Housing Minister Ariel Sharon's past strategy for hiding the extent of settlement activity.
But the argument is only narrowly about loan guarantees or West Bank settlements. What is more fundamentally at stake is Israel's willingness to make reciprocal concessions to the Palestinians at a rare moment when peace is no longer an impossible dream. By pressing for an achievable compromise on loan guarantees, Washington can help nudge this difficult peace process forward.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: SHMR (TASE) (92%); SHMR (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (92%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

COMPANY: SHAMIR OPTICAL INDUSTRY LTD (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ISRAEL; MIDDLE EAST ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; SOVIET JEWS; CREDIT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; PALESTINIANS; ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS (OCCUPIED TERRITORIES) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (88%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); REFUGEES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



223 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Reading Boris's Mind

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

 BODY:
My trip to New York and Camp David was not a happy experience.
I told the bankers and businessmen we have done everything Gorbachev refused to do -- free markets, supply and demand, Polish shock therapy. And did they come forward with investment? Did the central banks come up with a way to help me stabilize the ruble? No. 
 I told Bush, who at last asks me to call him George, we would make arms reductions that would destroy all missiles in the republics outside Russia, as he wants. And did he welcome my appeal for a joint space defense against terrorist nuclear missiles, getting the Red Army marshals out of my anteroom? No.
I told the U.N. we have not one prisoner of conscience left in Russia, the greatest triumph of freedom in the world, and the big news is Bush's meeting with Li Peng, which forgives him for Tiananmen Square.
I am in Paris now, but I hear that back in Moscow, demonstrations have been banned in Red Square because they were tying up traffic and we couldn't afford the police.
I am beset from three sides:
The lunatics who call themselves national patriots have started their nashi movement behind Zhirinovsky, our mini-Hitler, whose first act as dictator would be to invade the Baltics. I can use him to scare the West, but the television star Nevzorov, the brains behind him, must be watched.
The nomenklatura, the bureaucrats out of jobs, neo-Communists, the Soyuz group and some of the disloyal generals are putting together a coalition behind Aleksandr Rutskoi, who may be sick, and the man I gave 20 bodyguards and a dacha -- Mikhail Sergeyevich himself -- along with Yakovlev and his other hangers-on.
And what of my ardent supporters, the liberal intelligentsia? They are panicking, saying now that a union treaty would have been better than the new commonwealth, wailing about the further disintegration of the Russian republic.
(Of course, when I listened to Rutskoi and sent our Russian troops into Chechen-Ingushetia to put down the separatists, the liberals howled and made me stop. The intelligentsia want the impossible: democracy and unity, free markets and cheap food.)
The only people left on my side are the people. I'm supported by 43 percent in the polls, better than anybody else and as good as George Bush. I have asked for one year to make all the changes, which is a problem because my economist Gaidar, 35 years old and knows everything, says publicly it will take two years.
That's why my own appointees call us a "kamikaze Government," suicide pilots saving our country at the cost of our own political lives.
I am not a kamikaze. And unlike the nervous liberals, I do not feel pain in the amputated right arm of Ukraine. Russia is better off without the empire's drain, but disunion has gone far enough. There will be no independence for the Tatars or any other people on Mother Russia's historic land.
That makes me ask myself -- what if, Boris Nikolayevich, prices keep going up, and the world looks the other way, and the bureaucrats laugh at my decrees and the people make a hero out of crazy Zhirinovsky?
That would mean the time is not yet ripe for full democracy in Russia. My Government -- my 25 young men and a handful of grayheads -- would not turn this nation over to a lunatic, nor return it to the crowd that brought us to this sorry state.
So I answer, that is why I installed Viktor Baronikov, over liberal objections, at the head of the Ministry of Security of the Russian Federation, which now includes the former K.G.B., still at its full strength.
And it is why I balanced that by assigning a reformist, Minister of Justice Nikolai Fyedorov, to watch Baronikov and to clean out the entire network of Kryuchkovite K.G.B. generals and colonels from the Ministry of Security by July 1.
Between now and then, we will see if the world's capitalists are willing to become our partners. We will see if old debt is forgiven, new credit extended, and help given to develop our resources -- before it's too late.
If not; if the people are not ready to sacrifice for their freedom; if the nashi or the Gorbachev nomenklatura try to take over --- then it's Dobrym parnyem bolshye nye budu. Or as my cold and tightly smiling friend in Camp David puts it, "No more Mr. Nice Guy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UKRAINE (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (78%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UKRAINE (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (78%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICAL PRISONERS; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (89%); ARMIES (76%); ARMED FORCES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TRENDS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%); POLITICS (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



224 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Campaing Trail;
From Nixon, Predictions on the Presidential Race

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5

 BODY:
In a political season of character issues and secret tapes, Richard M. Nixon offers some predictions.
The former President, passing through town to talk some politics, forecast the 1992 election this way: 
 If Bill Clinton wins New Hampshire, he will roll into the nomination, unless there are new revelations. But Mr. Nixon suggested that the Clinton campaign would have to be careful about how it uses Hillary Clinton, because in general, "If the wife comes through as being too strong and too intelligent, it makes the husband look like a wimp."
Mr. Nixon praised Barbara Bush as a model of a wife who has her own opinions without upstaging her husband, and suggested that many Americans are still put off by a male politician who does not seem to be as strong as his wife. The former President allowed that, unfortunately, some voters agree with Cardinal de Richelieu, who said, "Intellect in a woman is unbecoming."
If Governor Clinton comes in second to Paul E. Tsongas, there will be agitation for a new candidate because, as Mr. Nixon noted drily, "Tsongas is too responsible to be nominated by the Democrats."
Just as a write-in campaign in New Hampshire may have helped to save his Vice Presidency in 1956, when some Republicans were talking about dropping him from the Eisenhower ticket, Mr. Nixon mused about the write-in campaign for Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, noting that his name is easily spelled.
He has privately told friends he would relish seeing a race between the President and the New York Governor, whom he describes as "a heavyweight."
He said his former speechwriter, Patrick J. Buchanan, would get 28 percent of the vote in New Hampshire.
Mr. Nixon suggested that the Democrats might win the Electoral College and still lose the popular vote, titillating political science professors. He said the President would win the general, although he could lose California, which would make him dependent on having a solid South, plus Ohio and Illinois, which he said would be the battlegrounds of the election.
He said that the Republicans would gain 25 seats in the House, and would stay even, or lose two seats, in the Senate.
For anyone who doubts the accuracy of Mr. Nixon's predictions, remember that in 1966, a crucial year in his political comeback, he predicted that the Republicans would gain 47 House seats. They did.
 
Cuomo Treasure
 For those still fascinated with the thinking of Governor Cuomo, here is a bit of buried treasure.
In 1987, The New York Times columnist William Safire sent Mr. Cuomo a copy of his "Political Dictionary," marking the segment on "Presidential Draft," which begins: "A demand by a party that a man not seeking the nomination accept it; upon rare occasion, applies to one who did not encourage his own candidacy."
The Governor sent back a note with the line, "Re 'draft,' see the last paragraph of your 'Brokered Convention.' "
That paragraph reads: "By 1972, the proliferation of primaries and erosion of the 'unit rule' made brokerage more difficult, though not impossible."
 
Editing Bush
 The most important member of President Bush's campaign team may not be pollster, speechwriter or spin doctor. It just may be the editor who cuts and snips the footage for his campaign commercials.
In his first commercial, President Bush is presented as caring and crisp.
"This state has gone through hell," he tells a group of insurance workers in Dover, N.H. "It's gone through an extraordinarily difficult time."
Mr. Bush's actual answer, cut off mid-sentence, was not quite so polished.
"This state has gone through hell," he said, according to the official transcript. "It's gone through an extraordinarily difficult time, coming off of a pinnacle, you might say, of low unemployment. Now, you're at about the national level. And yes, people are hurting. And I am determined to turn it around.
"I told some of them over there -- there's a big difference, you know. People say to me -- difference between domestic and foreign policy. How could you lead the world -- and they gave me some credit for that in Desert Storm, that the American people still feel very, very strongly about -- and -- how can you do that and then have such difficulties with this economy?"
 
Clinton Humor
 Mr. Clinton has been fighting off a cold and allergies for a week now. "I wonder if they'll vote for a dead man," he muttered today, as he wandered about New Hampshire tearing and wheezing.
But he has tried to keep a sense of humor throughout his trial by tabloid.
At Portland High School in Maine last weekend, Alyssa O'Brien asked the Arkansas Governor what he thought of a newspaper advertisement placed by a Maine Citizens' Group asserting that President Bush fails to pay state income taxes there. The President owns a home in Kennebunkport but claims a hotel suite in Houston as his principal residence.
"I guess when he said no new taxes, he meant himself," Ms. O'Brien said.
Mr. Clinton grinned and said that such behavior was "not right." Then, flashing a pointed glance at the assembled press corps, he added: "If I did that, they'd write it up in one of those tabloids."
 
Man in Demand
 John Doggett, the man who taught the Senate about ego and erotomania, has moved from defending Clarence Thomas to defending Bill Clinton.
"God, this is my year, right?" said Mr. Doggett, a business consultant from Austin who went to Yale Law School with Mr. Thomas and the Clintons. "I'm checking through my book to see what my other classmates might do."
As a witness on behalf of Mr. Thomas during the Senate hearings about Anita F. Hill's accusation of sexual harassment last fall, Mr. Doggett gave a performance so loquacious and boastful that Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. was moved to comment on his "enormous ego."
He said that Anita Hill had found him so attractive that she had developed a romantic fixation on him, a story meant to back up the Republican suggestion that Ms. Hill was an erotomaniac.
Now it's deja vu all over again, as Yogi Berra said, for Mr. Doggett. He said that, at the request of a Clinton aide, he showed up at a rally in Austin last week to act as a character witness for the Arkansas Governor, who had just been hit by tabloid mania.
"The irony is that Clarence and Bill were both at Yale Law School, and both of them had their chance at very important positions questioned by women who made accusations with sexual overtones and both of them came forward with very clear, straightforward, believable answers that were complete denials," said Mr. Doggett, who said he has been deluged with calls, letters and speaking offers because he had "the strength to tell those guys in the Senate where to get off."
Mr. Dogget said he was a Democrat until 1990 when he switched to the Republican Party. But he left a different impression with Mr. Clinton. Mr. Clinton said he was surprised when Mr. Doggett showed up at a rally in Austin last fall and said, "I'm a Democrat. My wife's a Democrat. We really want to be for you," and then appeared at last week's rally in Austin as well.
Mr. Doggett, however, tells it differently. "I absolutely support Bill as a Democrat. I feel very comfortable saying that. But if I had to vote today I would vote for President Bush because I registered as a Republican. I don't feel that's a contradiction even though my political friends say, 'You can't do that, John.' My bottom line is that I'm not a politician. I'm a human being and American citizen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I wonder if they'll vote for a dead man," said Gov. Bill Clinton, who has been fighting off a cold and allergies for a week. He perspired profusely during an appearance at Concord (N.H.) High School. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW HAMPSHIRE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; FORECASTS; PRIMARIES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); WRITERS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUCHANAN,
PATRICK J BILL CLINTON (94%); RICHARD NIXON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



225 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Memo;
Cuomo, on the Sidelines, Is Watchful and Wistful

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 5

 BODY:
The question that Gov. Mario M. Cuomo was asked at a news conference on Tuesday was about poor Randall Wells, the New Hampshire man who has received hundreds of misdialed telephone calls because his business's 1-800 number is similar to that of a Cuomo write-in campaign committee.
But the answer the New York Governor gave had nothing to do with the travails of Mr. Wells. It had to do with all the mail he continues to get encouraging him to run for President. 
 "We're getting letters -- I just asked them," he said, glancing toward the staff members slumping against his conference room wall. "Did you hear about the letters we got? How many letters did we get? Anybody know? Ten thousand?"
"What do the letters say?" a reporter asked Mr. Cuomo.
"I don't read them," he said.
"You just count them?" came the reply.
"I just read some of them," conceded Mr. Cuomo, who then explained with a chuckle that one of his aides had recruited a small platoon of volunteers to respond to the letters. "I asked Al Gordon," he said. "He brought in eight people today to look at them. Am I hearing things or is that the story?"
 
A Hint of Disappointment
 By that time, Mr. Cuomo may have realized that what seemed to him an intriguing anecdote seemed to others an unusually candid bit of conceit. He dislodged himself by joking that the letters had urged him to pass a state budget on time.
That, of course, is the mission that Mr. Cuomo says commands all of his energy these days. But the incident at the news conference provided a view of the wistfulness the Governor is reportedly feeling as the Presidential campaign begins to pass him by.
There is no sign in Albany that Mr. Cuomo has any interest in making a late entry into race, even though Gov. Bill Clinton's troubles have created a boomlet of speculation that another new Democrat will take the plunge. And yet the Governor cannot quite restrain himself from occasionally parachuting onto the Presidential landscape.
His aides say it is an expression of Mr. Cuomo's disappointment.
"I think he's expressed himself pretty clearly that he wanted to run for President and if he had a budget he would have run," said Alfred Gordon, a Cuomo adviser whose duties, among others, include monitoring the Governor's mail.
 
Sizing Up the Candidates
 A few of Mr. Cuomo's political advisers admit to spending some of their spare time war-gaming a last-minute candidacy. Most agree with Mr. Cuomo that the Democratic nominee will almost certainly be one of the five announced candidates, although it would still be possible for a party-crasher to pull off a miracle.
Ginny Terzano, a spokeswoman for the Democratic National Committee, said a new candidate could still win the nomination, even on a first-convention ballot, by winning the last few primaries, earning the support of elected officials and other so-called superdelegates, and picking off the support of delegates committed to candidates who drop out of the race.
Mr. Cuomo has said he does not believe in such scenarios. After watching last Friday's televised Democratic debate, he praised the candidates as "a very strong field." That opinion was something of an upgrade from last Wednesday, when Mr. Cuomo said on CNN's "Larry King Live" that "this field is adequate to produce the next President of the United States."
 
In the Balance
 Last month, Mr. Cuomo put an end to the favorite-son campaign being discussed by some of his supporters in his home state. But he has made no effort to kill the write-in campaigns being waged on his behalf in New Hampshire and Illinois.
"It's very difficult to discourage people who are saying nice things about you," he said last week. "You try not to be ungracious. But the record is in modern times with this primary process, it comes out of the primaries. That's the way it is and that's the way it will be."
When he announced on Dec. 20 that he would not run for President, he said he wanted to be "a constructive force" for the Democrats.
In inimitable fashion, he showed the way for the Democrats in his appearance on "Larry King Live," when he used a searing metaphor for the economic proposals unveiled by President Bush in his State of the Union address. "What he did," Mr. Cuomo said, "was throw a few bonbons to a badly undernourished country."
But on the same show, Mr. Cuomo continued his attack on Mr. Clinton, the man once considered the Democrat with the best chance of unseating Mr. Bush. Responding to Mr. Clinton's comment that Mr. Cuomo "acts like" a member of the Mafia, Mr. Cuomo said the comment raised questions about the Arkansas Governor's attitudes toward minority groups.
A caller to the show questioned Mr. Cuomo's intent: "I can't understand if you're a real true Democrat and you really want to get rid of the worst President we've had in years, why you're painting one of our leading candidates in a corner."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Mario Cuomo is described as "a heavyweight" by former President Richard M. Nixon, who privately said he would relish seeing a race between President Bush and Mr. Cuomo. (David Jennings for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (69%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RICHARD NIXON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



226 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Democrats To Support A Tax Cut

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5

 BODY:
House Democrats agreed tonight to press for a middle-class tax cut paid for by higher taxes on upper-income taxpayers, despite opposition to any such increase by the Bush Administration.
House Speaker Thomas S. Foley told reporters there was a "strong consensus" for such an approach, although at least two Democrats had argued against the middle-class tax cut, saying it would be too small to do any good. 
 Representatives Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn and Robert T. Matsui of Hawaii made that argument at a party caucus this afternoon. Mr. Schumer said he told his colleagues that any proceeds from upper-bracket tax increases should be spent on stimulating growth because his constituents were "much more worried about losing their jobs than about six bucks a week in their pockets."
 
The 'Fairness' Issue
 But such arguments were apparently stilled, according to members' accounts of the closed meeting, by the argument that since the party had been making an issue of fairness for months, it had to stick to it. If it abandoned that stance now, said Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin, "we'd be absolute damn fools."
Mr. Foley told reporters that the middle-class tax cut was not aimed at stimulating economic growth, but at "fairness, basically." He said other provisions of the bill the Ways and Means Committee would write next week would be aimed at growth.
He said the measure would probably come to the House floor in the last week of February or first week of March. He said he expected the President's proposal would also come to the House floor for a vote as an alternative. He acknowledged that whatever passed in the House would probably be changed after Senate action.
House Republicans were not heard from on the President's proposals today. But the Senate's Republican leader, Bob Dole of Kansas, introduced the package there and said that while he might oppose a few of its provisions, Congress should "roll up its sleeves" and get to work on passing it by the March 20 deadline that Mr. Bush set in his State of the Union speech.
 
An Alternative Emphasis
 The House caucus came after several Democrats on the Ways and Means Committee, at a closed meeting this morning, had argued that the middle-class tax cut should be dropped in favor of efforts to promote growth. They included Representatives Thomas J. Downey of Suffolk and Mr. Matsui.
Mr. Downey and Mr. Matsui both said later that they would join in the push for the middle-class tax cuts. Mr. Matsui said, "Now that we know what the caucus and the leadership want, we're going to try to come up with a package."
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader, scoffed at the argument that the tax reduction the committee is likely to approve would not be meaningful. "Only within the Beltway is $300 or $400 not a lot of money," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 7, 1992, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about an agreement among House Democrats to press for a middle-class tax cut misidentified the home state of Representative Robert T. Matsui. It is California.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEANS COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEANS COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); HAWAII, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); DISMISSALS (54%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) CHARLES SCHUMER (73%); DAVE OBEY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1992



227 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk;
On How to Make Political Ends Meet

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6

 BODY:
The House Ways and Means Committee's hearings on tax and growth legislation may not have any effect on what kind of bill Congress may pass this spring. Canny closed-door politics, not earnest open arguments, will control that process.
But the hearings offer instructive examples of the cynicism and special pleading that go into tax writing. And once in a while, they even offer edifying discussions of interesting ideas that will be utterly disregarded in the eventual law-making. 
 For instance, Representative Charles E. Schumer dropped in to offer a suggestion he said would do more good than his party's favorite shibboleth, a tax cut for the middle class, or the Administration's grail, a cut in the capital gains tax rate.
The Brooklyn Democrat argued that what the economy needed most was more savings and investment. He said a middle-class tax cut would be puny in its impact, and said there was no historical evidence that capital gains tax cuts or easier terms for individual retirement accounts would do more than help the rich.
Instead, he proposed indexing all savings and investment for inflation. He contended that a major reason why net national savings was only 1.5 percent of the gross national product in 1990, the last year for which there are statistics, is that people preferred to spend money on consumer goods rather than see their savings eaten up by inflation and taxes.
Under his suggestion, if someone put $1,000 into a savings account at 4 percent, earning $40, and inlation was 3 percent for the year, only $10 would be subject to tax. Now, all $40 is taxed, and the taxpayer in the 15 percent bracket gets a net, after inflation and taxes, of just $4. The 31 percent taxpayer actually loses $2.40.
For about 15 minutes, a few members of the committee discussed the idea with Mr. Schumer and said it was worth exploring. Sometime.
The prize for the slickest way around a complex problem was claimed Tuesday by Richard G. Darman, director of the Office of Management and Budget, as he advocated cutting capital gains taxes.
There are few things Congress and the Administration say more often and with more insistence than their mutual declarations that this bill must not increase the Federal budget deficit. But Congress's Joint Committee on Taxation says the capital gains measure would cost $15.4 billion over five years, while the Administration says it would earn $6.9 billion.
Mr. Darman said the way to get around that was for Congress to pass the measure with a provision declaring a budget emergency, so that it wouldn't have to raise other taxes to make up the $15.4 billion.
But then the President would not have to declare the emergency, because he would take his Administration's word for it that the change would actually reduce the deficit.
Much of the hearings was devoted to pleading about how one existing clause of the tax code, or some new proposal, was critical to the economy. The interests of elderly farmers, makers of small airplanes, and real estate agents all had their advocates.
But few told a sadder story than James A. Willingham, a Long Beach, Calif., car dealer who attacked the 1990 luxury tax on cars costing more than $30,000: "In my own dealership, I did not sell a single Rolls-Royce subject to the tax in 1991, down from 13 the year before."
Republicans do believe in capital gains tax cuts, and Democrats do feel that middle-income taxpayers pay too much and the rich too little. If there is a bill, it will be informed by some elements of those beliefs.
The most important purpose of these hearings is to enable the witnesses to report to their constituents or clients that they told Congress what to do. Even if there were rarely more than half a dozen committee members in the room.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); INCOME TAX (74%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (73%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM CHARLES SCHUMER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1992



228 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: 3 Western Allies Seek End To a High-Tech Export Ban

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
In a policy shift reflecting the end of the cold war, three European countries have proposed to their Western allies that they drop virtually all restrictions on exporting civilian telecommunications gear, according to people familiar with the discussions.
The proposal, generated by the increasing frustration felt by European telecommunications manufacturers eager to modernize the former Soviet Union's telephone system, would effectively remove the United States' veto power over the sale of fiber-optic and related communications equipment. 
 Germany, the Netherlands and Italy introduced the proposal last week in Paris to a working group of the Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls, known as Cocom. The committee is the Western agency long responsible for coordinating trade restrictions against the Soviet Union and its allies. Eight other European nations have said they will support the proposal, while American representatives are expected to seek delays to study its impact.
Separately, a group of 10 American Government officials is preparing to leave Monday to inspect Carl Zeiss Jena, a manufacturing company in the former East Germany. Last year the company sold a high-speed fiber-optic telecommunications cable to the Soviet Union, challenging American and British attempts to limit modernization of the Soviet telephone system.
The sale was based on a loophole in Cocom restrictions that provides an exemption for Eastern European manufacturers that had done business with the Soviet Union in the past. If the cable was actually produced in the former East Germany, then Cocom rules would not apply. But the American officials want to see whether Carl Zeiss Jena has such manufacturing capabilities, or whether the company might have merely acted as a transfer agent for some Western producer.
Cocom is a child of the Cold War that has been struggling to find a career in the current era. The 17-nation agency liberalized many export restrictions on high-technology products last year, but many members now believe that these restrictions are increasingly irrelevant as new capitalist economies emerge in the former East bloc.
"The Cold War is over," said Eric L. Hirschhorn, a former deputy assistant commerce secretary for export control who is now a Washington lawyer representing American computer makers. "Why is it over everywhere but in Cocom?"
 
Bitterly Contested Issue
 American and British Government officials have pursued a restrictive policy on exports of advanced telecommunications gear because such equipment would make surveillance more difficult.
But telecommunications exports have been a bitterly contested issue since the Soviet bloc began to collapse several years ago, and American telecommunications manufacturers have been among those protesting their country's stance.
These manufacturers have made several attempts to sell advanced telecommunications gear to the former Soviet Union. In 1990 efforts by the regional Bell company U S West to complete a deal for laying high-speed fiber optic cable across Siberia were blocked by United States enforcement of Cocom restrictions on the export of high-speed, high-capacity communications technology.
 
Need for New Focus Is Seen
 Many trade experts believe that Cocom must be reorganized to focus on issues including North-South trade between wealthier and poorer nations, and the proliferation of nuclear weapons and related technology exports. But it is unclear whether the group is the right one to carry out such a strategy. Without wider participation from former socialist countries as well as Asian and Middle-Eastern nations, any controls are likely to be ineffective.
"If Cocom is going to take North-South responsibility, it won't be able to unless it involves the Soviet Union and resolves this very divisive telecommunications issue," said Chris Padilla, manager of government affairs for the American Telephone and Telegraph Company.
The plan now before a Cocom working group in Paris would require countries to give Cocom 30 days advance notice of proposed exports. Although Cocom could still block these exports, the new rules would make such actions unlikely. The proposal is to be discussed by diplomats at the Assistant Secretary level on March 5.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS327215 GLASS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING MADE OF PURCHASED GLASS (56%); SIC3827 OPTICAL INSTRUMENTS & LENSES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (55%); 

COMPANY: COORDINATING COMMITTEE FOR MULTILATERAL EXPORT CON CARL ZEISS AG (56%); WASSENAAR ARRANGEMENT (83%); WASSENAAR ARRANGEMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COORDINATING COMMITTEE FOR MULTILATERAL EXPORT CON WASSENAAR ARRANGEMENT (83%); WASSENAAR ARRANGEMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; RUSSIA (RUSSIAN REPUBLIC); UNITED STATES; GERMANY; NETHERLANDS; ITALY UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES; COMMUNICATIONS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FIBER OPTICS ; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET EXPORT TRADE (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); COLD WAR (90%); FIBER OPTICS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); EXPORT CONTROLS (90%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (74%); VETO (73%); COMPUTER MAKERS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1992



229 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Dow Loses 2 but Broader Market Holds Up

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Stocks were mixed again yesterday in heavy and choppy trading as blue-chip issues retreated a bit but with more records set in the broader market. The Dow Jones industrial average ended at 3,255.59, down 2.01 points.
Some investors stayed out of the market ahead of today's unemployment report, while others shifted their money from large-capitalization stocks to secondary issues, traders said. 
 Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was heavy at 242 million shares, down from 262.4 million on Wednesday. The Big Board index closed up 0.09 point, to 228.96, as gaining issues held a 912-to-772 lead over losers.
The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks ticked lower, to 413.82, down 0.02 point, while the American Stock Exchange composite set a record at 416.25, up 1.01 points.
Trading on the Nasdaq pushed the composite to yet another high, as it closed at 637.67, up 0.70 point, and the Russell 2,000 took a 0.92-point gain to a new high of 210.26.
John Brooks, a technical analyst for Davis, Mendel & Regenstein Inc., was impressed with yesterday's volume. "As a rule, many investors usually hold back on trading before the release of some economic data that the market deems important," he said.
"With the market up dramatically since the beginning of the year and what appears to be a consolidation," the market seems headed for a fall, Mr. Brooks said. "Only this market refuses to go down in the face of all that."
Many analysts have come to the conclusion that when the market does move, it will head down, but Mr. Brooks said he believed that when it resolved itself it would rise.
"You still have an enormous amount of C.D. money coming into the large-capitalization, high-price issues, low-price issues and mid-capitalization growth stocks," he said.
Yesterday's market took a cautious tone that for the most part kept prices from building much momentum. Many analysts say that the data on employment scheduled to be issued today will be crucial for the near-term outlook for the Federal Reserve.
"If unemployment is up," the analyst said, "people will buy the market because it will give the Fed reason to ease further, but if it's down, it might cause the market to lose a day, but it will not create a major slide."
In active trading, Owens-Corning, jumped up 7 5/8, to 36 1/2, as it took an $800 million charge on its fourth-quarter results. Traders said many analysts agreed that the charge for asbestos liabilities was a positive sign and reduced the uncertainty surrounding the company.
Constar International, a big manufactuer of plastic containers, reported strong fourth-quarter earnings and the results pushed the price of its stock up 2 1/4, to 40 1/2.
Traders said the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, known as Freddie Mac, and the Federal National Mortgage Association, known as Fannie Mae, were both downgraded by Nancy Spady, an analyst with Shearson Lehman, to "buy" from "strong buy." But they said the nature of the adjustment was technical and did not change the analyst's favorable long-term outlook. Fannie Mae was off 3/4, to 63 7/8 and Freddie Mac lost 1/4, to 123 1/2.
Dresser Industries, an energy and natural resources company, which said late Wednesday that it would spin off its industrial and mining equipment units, rose 1 1/4, to 20 5/8.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OC (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS423330 ROOFING, SIDING & INSULATION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); NAICS327993 MINERAL WOOL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS324122 ASPHALT SHINGLE & COATING MATERIALS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3296 MINERAL WOOL (52%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS326160 PLASTICS BOTTLE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (50%); SIC3085 PLASTICS BOTTLES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); NYSE MKT LLC (56%); OWENS CORNING (52%); CONSTAR INTERNATIONAL INC (50%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BONDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (60%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT JOHN BROOKS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1992



230 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: 'Domestic' Label for Mazda Would Be First for Japanese

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Feb. 6

 BODY:
The Mazda Motor Corporation offered solid evidence today that its cars are becoming more American, introducing its new 626 compact model, which Mazda said would be the first "foreign" brand car to be classified as domestic for purposes of Federal fuel-efficiency regulations.
Mazda introduced the car at the Chicago Auto Show. All of the 626's steel, glass, paint, electronics and major components -- except the engine and transmission -- are bought from United States suppliers. 
 Some of the suppliers are longtime American companies; others are owned by Japanese companies, and some are joint ventures of American and Japanese owners. The United Automobile Workers union and other critics of Japan contend that Japanese auto makers import many parts and relabel them as domestic after changing them only slightly.
 
 
75 Percent U.S. Content
 The four-door Mazda 626 and the two-door MX-6, which are built at Mazda's Flat Rock, Mich., assembly plant, will contain more than 75 percent domestic content. Thus, the auto maker expects the Environmental Protection Agency to classify the cars as "domestic" for purposes of complying with corporate average fuel economy regulations. Those rules require each auto maker's fleet to deliver, on average, at least 27.5 miles a gallon; import and domestic fleets are averaged separately.
Mazda's announcement came at a moment of sharp tension between the United States and its auto makers and Japan and its auto industry. Big Three executives have been urging Washington to restrain Japanese sales as a way to forestall plant closings and layoffs in the United States.
Mazda and other Japanese auto makers assert that they employ American workers and contribute substantially to American economic vitality. A key component of this argument has been stressing the domestic nature of some of the best-selling Japanese models. The Japanese auto makers have also promised to increase purchases of American-made automotive parts to help redress the trade imbalance.
 
 
Ads Won't Wave a Flag
 But if Mazda is pleased with the American content of the 626, it does not plan to share that pride with consumers. Clark Vitulli, senior vice president of Mazda's American sales subsidiary, said Mazda would emphasize the domestic character of its vehicles to the news media and to politicians, but would probably not do so in its advertising.
"Most of our customers intend to buy imports anyway," Mr. Vitulli said. "Where the cars come from isn't as important to our buyers as quality and reliability."
The Japanese auto makers are nervous about protectionist legislation developing in Congress, as well as what they see as nascent Japan-bashing. But so far, automotive sales figures suggest that any "buy American" sentiment has not translated into lost sales for foreign makes.
The Honda Motor Company has also been building cars in Ohio that it says contain 75 percent domestic content. But because Honda also imports Accords built in Japan, the model's average domestic content is not large enough to qualify the Accord as a domestic car. The Toyota Motor Corporation builds many, but not all, of its Camrys in Georgetown, Ky.
 
 
Fierce Competition
 The new Mazda 626, when it goes on sale in May, will enter one of the most competitive segments of the automotive market -- larger compact and midsize cars, a category that includes the Accord, Camry, Ford Taurus and General Motors's midsize sedans like the Chevrolet Lumina.
The new Camry is one of the few models in this class selling strongly without manufacturers' incentives or discounts. Indeed, Toyota was able to raise its price sharply this year and sell it at the higher level. The price has not been set for the redesigned 626, but the base retail price of the current model is $13,226.
Last year, Mazda sold 68,000 626's in the United States; it sold 64,000 in 1990 and 55,000 in 1989.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7261 (TSE) (96%); HMC (NYSE) (60%); 7267 (TSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MAZDA MOTOR CORP; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) MAZDA MOTOR CORP (96%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (60%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAZDA MOTOR CORP; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); PROTECTIONISM (74%); PURCHASE INTENT (73%); CLOSINGS (72%); PLANT CLOSINGS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (67%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1992



231 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Falling Tax Would Lift All Yachts

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
The nation's luxury-boat builders, many clinging to their businesses after two years of plunging sales, finally got some good news last week.
President Bush, in his budget proposals, asked Congress to repeal the 10 percent luxury tax on yachts priced at more than $100,000 (and also on private planes that cost more than $250,000). The repeal, which Congress is likely to approve, would be retroactive to Feb. 1. 
 Since the tax took effect in January 1990, hundreds of builders of large and small boats have spoken of it as a stake driven into the heart of an industry already suffering from the recession, tighter bank rules on financing and fallout from the gulf war.
In the last two years, about 100 builders of luxury boats -- recreational craft costing more than $100,000 -- cut their operations severely and laid off thousands of workers. Some builders filed for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code.
Now, sales personnel and owners of marine companies are hoping they will be swamped by buyers who have held off in the expectation that the tax will be repealed.
The 10 percent tax applies to the amount of the cost above $100,000, so that a boat selling for $300,000 carries a $20,000 luxury tax. That tax is in addition to any state and local taxes.
Mr. Bush's proposals were endorsed by Senator George J. Mitchell, Democrat of Maine and majority leader, whose state is active in boat building. That increases the chances that Congress will accept the argument that repealing the tax will create jobs and promote economic growth. Overall employment in the industry, including the makers of smaller, less-expensive boats, has dropped to 400,000, from 600,000 in 1988.
Adding to the industry's optimism are signs of a small revival in boat sales. Most companies said they sold more boats at the New York National Boat Show earlier last month than at last year's show, when sales were very weak. They said the boat show also had good attendance during its run at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan.
Also, boat prices have dropped as much as 40 to 50 percent, interest rates have fallen and some lenders have begun to offer financing, though on very strict terms.
In 1991, sales of luxury boats dropped 70 percent from 1990's level, while overall boat sales fell 18 percent.
 
Relies on Foreign Customers
 "The luxury tax really hurt us," said William J. Healey, the president of the Viking Yatch Company in New Gretna, N.J.
He gestured toward a few big luxury boats being built there. A 50-foot boat costing $800,000 is bound for Italy; a $1 million yacht may be sold in Japan. A 65-foot motor yatch costing $1.3 million is bound for Greece.
The business from overseas, developed in the last two years, is enabling Viking to limp along, its work force cut to 150 workers from 800. "Very fortunately, it has helped us weather the downturn," Mr. Healey said as he pointed to two production lines that have been inactive for several years.
Domestic demand fell so sharply that a year ago Viking shut an operation in Tampa, Fla., that employed 800 workers. The plant was built in the boom of the 1980's, when most boat makers could not keep up with demand.
Robert A. Hazard, the general manager of the Egg Harbor Yacht Company in Egg Harbor City, N.J., got some orders at the New York show that strengthened the company's attempt to emerge from Federal bankruptcy protection. In a few weeks, a bankruptcy judge is expected to approve a reorganization plan under which management is pledging most of its personal financial resources to help back the plan.
"Everyone of us came out of the show with orders," Mr. Hazard said. He said he could have sold more boats but buyers had decided to wait in the hope that the luxury tax would soon be repealed.
Guy Castranova, who owns a contracting business in the Caribbean, is in the market for a 36-foot Tiara motor yacht that costs about $300,000. "Now is the time to buy," he said. "Interest rates are down, prices are lower.
 
Tradition in South Jersey
 Egg Harbor Yacht is among the oldest boatyards in South Jersey, where there was a plentiful supply of cedar -- the main building material before fiberglass hulls took over. It prospered in the 1980's; in some years it built 120 boats. But in January 1991, the combination of recession, the war and the luxury tax forced Egg Harbor to shut and lay off its 250 workers. A skeleton crew kept the lights on, answered the phone and kept in touch with customers while the company came up with a reorganization plan.
Like most builders that are beginning to call back workers, Egg Harbor has modest goals. At first only about 8 to 10 people will be called back to finish the boats that lie like skeletons on the production line.
By March, Mr. Hazard estimated, about 45 people will working to build 40 to 50 boats for the coming year. All the boats will be sold before they are built.
Many of the workers, whose families have been in the business for generations, are eager to be called back, even those who took higher-paying jobs at the casinos in Atlantic City.
Not far from Egg Harbor is Ocean Yachts, which opened in 1977 in Weekstown. It is among the youngest companies in the area, but it grew rapidly -- an average of 30 percent a year -- as recreational boating grew with the economic boom of the 1980's. It built a plant in Egg Harbor City in 1988, and the company had sales of $60 million three years ago, building about 12 boats a month.
Now the plant is closed, and the work force of 325 has been cut to 55. Ralph N. Leeck, the vice president of marketing for Ocean, said that because the 1980's were so highly profitable, most of the expansion was paid out of cash flow, leaving the company with little debt.
"We have manageable costs and litte debt," he said."That's how we can keep the doors open and keep on losing money."
His company has also seen a small increase in orders, particularly from owners who have not bought a new boat in a long time and want to trade up.
Mr. Leeck does not, however, expect a return soon to the good times of the 1980's. The retrenchment, he said, "is still going to continue into the 1990's."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Egg Harbor Yacht Company, hit by the recession, the Persian Gulf war and the luxury tax, halted production in January 1991. Robert A. Hazard, the general manager, shown standing inside a mold used to make fiberglass hulls, is beginning to call back workers and hopes to build 40 to 50 boats this year. (pg. D1); William Healey, the president of Viking Yacht in South Jersey, showed a set of plans for a large boat to a recent visitor. Mr. Healey says business from overseas "has helped us weather the downturn." (pg. D5) (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); GULF STATES (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EGG HARBOR YACHT CO (73%); VIKING YATCH CO (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); GULF STATES (56%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOATS AND BOATING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRIVATE AIRCRAFT; CREDIT; INDUSTRY PROFILES ; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; LAYOFFS (LABOR) TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGETS (90%); EXCISE TAX (90%); BOAT BUILDING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); APPROVALS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (72%); AIRLINES (71%); DESERT STORM (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SALPUKAS, AGIS GEORGE W BUSH (90%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1992



232 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Region's Quick-Cash Frauds Snare Desperate Consumers

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEWARK, Feb. 5

 BODY:
After losing her job as a computer operator -- with no savings, no credit and few prospects -- a 25-year-old Morris County woman found a classified ad in a national magazine offering fast, guaranteed personal loans of as much as $25,000.
Early last year she sent the Florida-based company $500, borrowed from her mother, as a fee to secure a $5,000 loan. She has not had any response. 
 "I was so desperate I didn't stop to think," said the woman, who spoke on condition of anonymity because, she said, she is ashamed of having allowed someone to bilk her.
 
Feeding on Desperation
 What happened to her is happening to people across the region. Fueled by a lingering recession that has made credit tight and people desperate, loan frauds that dangle the prospect of quick cash for an upfront fee are the fastest-growing category of consumer complaints throughout the metropolitan area, consumer agency officials said.
The agencies said that beyond advance-fee loan frauds, they had been inundated with complaints about other schemes that target individuals stretched to their financial limit.
In the mildest cases, consumers answering ads offering job information receive lists culled from old newspaper want ads, the officials said, and are bilked of the cost of a telephone call to a 900 number. Unemployed workers have paid bogus job consultants advance fees to process applications, the officials said, and homeowners facing foreclosure have sent fake credit companies overdue mortgage payments.
But in the worst cases, they said, homeowners have been tricked into signing second mortgages when they thought they were signing low-interest debt consolidation loans; some now face losing their homes.
"There is a very direct correlation between the recessionary economy and the increase in the types of consumer fraud we're seeing," said Emma Byrne, the director of New Jersey's Divison of Consumer Affairs.
Robert Winter, director of New Jersey's Division of Criminal Justice, said today's cases are reminiscent of those that were prevalent during the recession in the mid-1970's but became less frequent when times got better.
"In the 80's, we had a lot of over-the-counter securities stock fraud," he said. "Now, the victims are much more sympathetic."
The victims range from the urban poor to suburban homeowners, consumer officials said. In Connecticut, many are white-collar workers who have lost their jobs or are working part time and are hard-pressed to meet their bills, said Attorney General Richard Blumenthal.
In New York, where the fastest-growing fraud category involves advance-fee mortgage loans, most of the victims are homeowners in Queens and on Long Island, said Ed Saslow, chief of the Attorney General's Criminal Prosecutions Bureau. And in New Jersey, the victims are most often "those who can afford it least," said Ms. Byrne. "They're seniors, non-English speaking and the urban poor."
 
Mortgage Tricks
 Last week, the New Jersey Attorney General, Robert J. Del Tufo, ordered a licensed Bergen County home-repair contractor and a finance company to answer charges that they defrauded 12 homeowners by luring them into signing second mortgages on their homes when the homeowners thought they were signing applications for low-interest debt consolidation loans. The companies, Maywood Builders and Sterling Resources, have been ordered to appear before an Essex County Superior Court judge on March 5.
For Anna Brocal of Paterson, the resolution of the case cannot come too soon. Ms. Brocal said her mother was tricked into signing a $22,700 second mortgage loan by men who came to their home offering to replace windows at low cost.
"They said they worked for the Government," Ms. Brocal said. "The way they were talking, they made it sound so real." Ms. Brocal said that after asking her mother, Maria Brocal, whether she had credit cards, the men offered to give her a loan at 15 percent interest that would consolidate all her credit-card debt and cover the cost of replacing the windows. "When she signed the papers, my mother didn't know it was for a second mortgage," Ms. Brocal said. She added that her father is on Social Security, that the family's only additional income is from a rental apartment in their two-family house and that they had no intention of acquiring a second mortgage.
"These are the kinds of frauds we're seeing," said Ms. Byrne. "They hit people absorbed with three major costs -- home, car or health."
 
Nationwide Fraud
 Far from being limited to the New York region, the rash of frauds is nationwide, according to the Council of Better Business Bureaus in Arlington, Va. Last year, the agency received more than 300,000 complaints from consumers and small-business owners who paid advance fees of $100 to $10,000 for "guaranteed" loans, said a spokeswoman, Dianne Ward.
In most cases, the culprits are not caught and the victims do not recoup their losses. Attorney General Blumenthal said Connecticut has put one fraudulent advance-fee concern out of business in the last year and is investigating others. But, Mr. Blumenthal said, while his office recommends five-year sentences in such cases, judges are reluctant to send first-time offenders to prison.
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, a Connecticut Democrat who heads the Governmental Affairs Committee's Subcommittee on Consumer and Environmental Affairs, has proposed that Congress outlaw advance fees for consumer and small-business loans offered by unregulated companies. But until such legislation is in place, consumer agencies say, fast-moving schemers will prove unwieldy to curb.
The New Jersey Attorney General's office has closed down two advance-fee loan operations and 11 companies that operate 900 numbers. Last month the office won a conviction against Timothy Burke, alias Robert Chapman, on charges that he had persuaded owners who were about to lose their homes because of missed mortgage payments to make the payments to his company, First Jersey Equities.
But Mr. Winter of the Divison of Criminal Justice said such cases are hard-won. "The general rule of thumb is white-collar criminals in the state system are continually given less time," he said. Ms. Brocal, whose parents face the possibility of foreclosure if they are forced to pay for a second-mortgage loan, says it is high time a law is passed.
"We paid $400 for one window, when it was worth about $75," Ms. Brocal said. "It sounded good at first, but we were scammed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: As the economy has worsened, fraud schemes have proliferated. Manuel and Maria Brocal were said to have been tricked into signing a second mortgage on their home in Paterson, N.J., by men who came to replace windows. They held their grandchildren, Edwin, 2 years old and Cecilia, 4 months. (F.N. Kinney for The New York Times) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CONSUMER PROTECTION CONSUMER LENDING (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PAY PER CALL (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); SECOND MORTGAGES (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (72%); FORECLOSURE (72%); CITIES (72%); LAWYERS (67%); SUBURBS (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); 

PERSON: NIEVES, EVELYN RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



233 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: BUSH UNVEILS PLAN FOR HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, Feb. 6

 BODY:
President Bush moved today to plug a gap in his election-year domestic plans by proposing several tax incentives and other changes in the law that he said would make quality medical care affordable for every American.
In making his plans public, Mr. Bush joined the Democratic Presidential candidates in proposing ways to improve the nation's health-care system, a debate from which he had been conspicuously absent. 
 White House aides estimated that the program would cost about $100 billion over the five years that would be required to put it into effect. They offered no plan to meet the expense but suggested that the money could be raised by limiting the growth of Medicare and Medicaid and by other savings that could be worked out later with Congress.
 
Growing Public Interest
 Asked how he would pay for the program, Mr. Bush replied, "We'll figure that out."
As a practical matter, Mr. Bush's program has little chance of becoming law because the Democrats who control Congress favor more ambitious approaches to health care. But his entrance into the debate over a topic that has generated a great deal of interest increases the likelihood that some health insurance plan will be enacted in the next few years.
Under Mr. Bush's plan, poor people not covered by Medicaid would receive tax credits and families with incomes of up to $80,000 would be granted tax deductions to help pay for medical insurance. Mr. Bush would also change laws to guarantee that even the chronically ill could find insurance coverage, and he would induce Medicare and Medicaid patients to use health maintenance organizations and other alternatives that are less expensive than private doctors.
 
Plans for Government Role
 Lawmakers of both parties and the Democratic Presidential candidates are backing measures that would give the Government a bigger role in the health care system. For example, one Democratic bill, which was approved last month by the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee, would require employers to provide medical insurance for their employees or pay an additional tax to finance a Government insurance plan.
Other plans under consideration include one for full-scale, Government-paid national health insurance to a proposal by conservatives that would require all Americans to buy private medical insurance.
On Capitol Hill today, Democrats called the Bush plan inadequate. Some Republicans endorsed it, while others merely said they were happy Mr. Bush had entered the debate.
George J. Mitchell of Maine, the Senate Democratic leader, called the plan "woefully inadequate," and Senator John D. Rockefeller 4th of West Virginia, a leading Democrat on health issues, said it was "little more than a timid gesture."
Senator John H. Chafee of Rhode Island, the chief sponsor of a Republican health bill, said Mr. Bush's offering was a "welcome addition to the national debate."
 
Aid for 95 Million
 In Mr. Bush's speech today before the Greater Cleveland Growth Association, he called his package "the right plan" that would lower medical and insurance costs for 95 million citizens, including many of the estimated 35 million, or 13 percent of the population, who now lack health insurance.
But much of his address was spent in a slashing attack on the Democratic proposals, which he called "a cure worse than the disease."
Arguing that his plan "will preserve what works and reform what doesn't," Mr. Bush said: "When we talk about health care, we're talking about matters of the most personal nature -- in some cases, literally, life and death decisions."
"We don't need to put Government between patients and their doctors," he added. "We don't need to create another wasteful Federal bureaucracy."
The President's address drew a tepid response from the crowd of Cleveland business leaders, who interrupted it only once, when they applauded an attack on rising malpractice costs.
The White House argued today that its plan averted costly Government programs and leaves people freer to choose their own doctors and insurance policies, by using tax incentives instead of mandated Federal programs.
Under the President's plan, the maximum credit or deduction would be $1,250 for a single person, $2,500 for a couple and $3,750 for families with children. The amount of credit or deduction would fall as income rose. Individuals with incomes above $50,000, single parents with incomes over $65,000 and couples with incomes over $80,000 would not be entitled to deductions.
Those who already receive Medicaid, Medicare or other Federal health benefits would not be eligible for the credits or deductions. Medicaid, the Government health plan for poor people, covers 30 million Americans, including many above the poverty level but only about 45 percent of people below the poverty level. More than 35 million people have no medical insurance, while 34 million are covered by the Medicare program for the elderly and the disabled. About 177 million people, including many enrolled in Medicare, have some type of private insurance.
Taxpayers who are self-employed would be allowed to deduct the entire cost of their health insurance under the Bush plan regardless of income, up from the present 25 percent limit.
Today, $3,750 would be enough to buy the most basic family medical insurance. Mr. Bush would increase the maximum credits and deductions annually to offset the effect of inflation. But the increases would be tied to the rate of overall inflation, which was 3.1 percent in the last 12 months, not the higher rate of inflation in medical costs, which was about 11 percent, so the value of the tax benefits could be gradually eroded.
The tax credit for poor people would help defray some of the cost of subscribing to employer health plans. It could also help buy private insurance or a basic package of minimum benefits that insurers would be required to offer in each state.
In addition to the tax changes, Mr. Bush proposed legislation that the White House said would make the insurance business more competitive and equitable.
Mr. Bush's plan would require insurers to provide coverage to anyone who sought it and to abolish "pre-existing conditions" clauses that limit coverage for new employees. Many workers today are unable to change jobs because they cannot obtain medical insurance from a new employer.
A second proposal would encourage small businesses to band together to buy insurance, spreading the risk among them. The decision to have Mr. Bush announce his plan in Cleveland was made in part because the city is home to an organization that has lowered health insurance costs for about 10,000 small companies that way. Many small businesses around the country cannot buy insurance for employees because the medical expenses of a few chronically or seriously ill workers raise the cost of insurance for all the rest to prohibitive levels.
The White House said that the tax credits and deductions would allow about 24 million of the 35 million Americans who do not now have medical insurance to be covered and that another 5 million would gain coverage through changes in insurance laws and market incentives. About 5 million people would remain uninsured by their own choice, the White House said.
While Mr. Bush offered no specific plan for financing this package, he said some savings could be achieved by changing malpractice and antitrust laws. It also suggested that paperwork changes, such as filing claims by computer, could save an unspecified, but sizable additional amount.
Most important, the Administration plan would switch Federal payments for Medicaid, the program for poor people, from the current system in which doctors are paid for performing specific medical services, to a method in which each state would be given a set amount each year for each eligible citizen and an annual adjustment for rising health costs.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Revamping Health Care: Highlights of the Bush Proposal"
 
A voucher worth up to $3,750 to poor families that could be used only to buy medical insurance.
 
A tax deduction up to $3,750 for families with incomes up to $70,000 and a lower deduction for those with incomes from $70,000 to $80,000. There would be no deduction for families with incomes higher than $80,000.
 
Full deductions of medical insurance premiums for the self-employed.
 
A requirement that companies provide coverage to anyone willing to pay for it. regardless of pre-existing medical conditions.
 
Inducements for small businesses to band together to buy medical insurance for their employees, lowering their cost by spreading thr risk.
 
Changes in medical malpractice and antitrust laws to hold down medical costs.
 
The encouragement of health maintenance organizations in private plans, Medicare and Medicaid.
 
(Pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (83%); MEDICARE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (83%); MEDICARE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TAX INCENTIVES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); MEDICAID (72%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (71%); CHRONIC DISEASES (71%); INCOME TAX (70%); APPROVALS (69%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (59%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



234 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-11
 
TAKING AIM AT HUSSEIN
 President Bush has sent the Director of Central Intelligence on an unpublicized mission to talk with leaders in Egypt and Saudi Arabia. The goal: hasten the downfall of the Iraqi President. A1
 
FOREIGN POLICY DOUGHNUT
 Containment of Communism was the guiding principle of United States foreign policy for more than 40 years. Now, with the cold war over, there is no core issue, prompting one expert to compare United States foreign policy to a doughnut -- "lots of peripheral interests, but nothing at the center." A1
 
PREACHING, NOT PRACTICING
 The United States urges Japan and other countries to open their markets to American goods, but at the same time it puts up many barriers to imports. A1
 
A WARNING FROM YELTSIN
 The President of Russia, appealing for Western aid on a visit to France, said dictatorship would return to Russia if his economic program did not succeed. A8
 
Prices have increased in Moscow but supplies haven't. A8
 
Four former Soviet republics give details on disarmament. A9
 
The United States names ambassadors to five former republics. A9
 
CROATIA SAYS YES TO U.N.
 The President of Croatia agreed to accept a United Nations peace plan, but the leader of a Serbian enclave rejects the proposal. A3
 
BOUNCING BACK IN CARACAS
 Laughing heartily despite the bullet holes in the window behind his desk, the President of Venezuela appears to have quickly recovered from a coup attempt. A3
 
TOUGH TALK FOR ISRAEL
 A key Democratic Senator says he supports the Bush Administration's plan to make a halt to new Israeli settlement building in the occupied territories a condition for loan guarantees. A11
 
MORE MISERY IN BANGLADESH
 A nation that endures chronic poverty and deadly cyclones is being swamped by a tide of Muslim refugees from Myanmar. A6
 
IRELAND'S NEW LEADER
 Albert Reynolds, a former Finance Minister, became Prime Minister-designate after a majority of his party chose him to replace Charles J. Haughey, who is resigning. A7
 
National A12-17
 
WHITE HOUSE REVERSAL ON OZONE
 With the backing of an Administration that had previously opposed it, a proposal that calls for speeding the phase-out of chemicals that damage the earth's ozone layer cleared the Senate, 96 to 0. A1
 
THE PRESIDENT'S HEALTH CARE PLAN
 Mr. Bush became the last of the major Presidential candidates to join the national debate on health care, formally proposing several tax incentives and other changes that he said would make quality care affordable to every American. A1
 
News analysis: The gaps in the President's proposal. A15
 
A NEW HEADACHE FOR CLINTON
 A report in The Wall Street Journal suggested that as a young man, Governor Clinton manipulated the military draft process to avoid serving during the Vietnam War. The Governor denied the account, but the issue dogged him during a day of campaigning in New Hampshire. A16
 
Senator Harkin, the populist with a piece of the pie. A16
 
Political Memo: The candidates' ads are a snapshot of strategy. A16
 
PLANE CRASHES INTO MOTEL
 At least 16 people were killed in Evansville, Ind., when an Air National Guard transport plane crashed into a motel filled with visitors attending a convention. A12
 
BADLANDS ON THE BORDER
 The Big Bend of the Rio Grande has been outlaw country for a long time, and now it is drug smugglers who increasingly find the terrain a useful ally. A12
 
REPORT ON C.I.A. ANALYSES
 A C.I.A. task force appointed in the aftermath of Robert M. Gates's grueling confirmation hearings last fall has rejected the assertion that the agency systematically slanted intelligence over the years. The findings, included in a classified report recently submitted to Mr. Gates for his approval, largely blame poor management and the inexperience of some analysts for allowing the perception of purposely slanted intelligence to flourish. A13
 
IN A WORD, UNEXPECTED
 Washington at Work: When Bob Woodward set out last year to learn everything he could about Vice President Quayle, the Capital awaited bombshells. But there weren't any when The Washington Post last month published the resulting series on Mr. Quayle, by Mr. Woodward and David Broder. The ensuingcriticism from journalists left Mr. Woodward puzzled and the Vice President's aides gleeful. A14
Washington Talk: Of tax writing, cynicism and special pleading. A13
 
Pittsburgh Journal: The emergence of a horror-film capital. A12
 
Law Page B6
 
The legal profession steps up recruitment of homosexual lawyers.
 
New research on the reliability of DNA fingerprinting.
 
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
HOMELESS AND HOTELS
 As New York struggles toward new ways of sheltering the homeless, a failed tourist hotel near Kennedy International Airport is about to re-open as a homeless hotel -- a revival of what critics called the worst of the old ways. A1
 
HARD TIMES, NASTY SCHEMES
 Fueled by a lingering recession that has made credit tight and people desperate, loan frauds that dangle the prospect of quick cash for an upfront fee are the fastest-growing category of consumer complaints throughout the metropolitan area, consumer agency officials said. A1
 
Neediest Cases B4
 
Business Digest, D1
 
Weekend C1-30
 
Amsterdam Ave., divine amid dowdy. C1
Athletes as the stuff of art. C1
Down-to-earth dining in Brooklyn. C1
 
Obituaries A19
 
Harding Bancroft, an executive at The Times and a diplomat.
 
Sports B8-17
 
Basketball: Magic Johnson's All-Star presence causing jitters. B9
Knicks Defeat Rockets B9
Olympics: Pipkins get berth in luge after runoff. B9
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A28-29
 
Editorials A28
Bush on health.
No demons in Central Asia.
End the fetal research ban.
Connecticut's pain.
 
Letters A28
 
A. M. Rosenthal: The California story. A29
Leslie H. Gelb: 1932 and 1992. A29
Robert F. Kennedy Jr.: Drinking from sewers.A29
Fritz Stern: Bush treats us like children. A29
David A. Ridenour: The wrong way to health care. A29

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Moscow, economic shock produces a milk paradox. A8 (Viktor Grityuk/Matrix for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAQ (92%); EGYPT (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); CROATIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); FRANCE (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: HEALTH CARE PLAN (51%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAQ (92%); EGYPT (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); CROATIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); FRANCE (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COLD WAR (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); REFUGEES (71%); COUPS (68%); TAX LAW (65%); POLITICAL DEBATES (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (61%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (61%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%); OZONE DEPLETION (60%); PRICE INCREASES (53%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



235 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1819 words

HEADLINE: As U.S. Urges Free Markets, Its Trade Barriers Are Many

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6

 BODY:
President Bush and Democrats both want Japan and other countries to open their markets to American goods, but in the international trade debate, the United States does not come to the table with clean hands. In comparison with Japan and America's other major trading partners, the United States is less protectionist -- but many barriers to imports remain.
Quotas double the price of sugar in morning coffee and limit imports per American to no more than seven peanuts, a pound of dairy cheese and a lick of ice cream each year. Fresh cream and milk are banned; frozen cream may be purchased only from New Zealand. And the Customs Service recently turned back a shipment of buttered croissants from France because it violated a quota on French butter shipments. 
 Imports of men's heavy and worsted wool suits are capped at 1.2 million, the equivalent of one for each male manager and professional every dozen years. The Commerce Department has imposed punitive duties on martial arts uniforms from Taiwan, awning window cranks from El Salvador and the tiny pads for woodwind instrument keys from Italy after determining that they were being sold, or "dumped," at unfairly low prices.
 
Sprawling and Inconsistent
 This sprawling and inconsistent collection of quotas, tariffs and other barriers reflects lobbying by many industries, as well as the occasional national-security concern. A result has been higher prices for American consumers and fewer opportunities for millions of people in developing countries to escape poverty by growing crops or stitching clothes for people in wealthy countries.
The Reagan and Bush Administrations have limited imports of steel and computerized factory machines, created customs processing fees for incoming merchandise and tightened controls on imports of sugary foods and natural-fiber clothing.
"There is so much hypocrisy and deception shot through our whole trade law system," said James P. Bovard, a Washington trade analyst and author who studies United States import barriers. "The extent of American protectionism is much worse than many people believe."
Administration officials acknowledge that there is little rhyme or reason to the nation's trade barriers, but contend that these barriers pale by comparison with others. "It's hard to say any country that's enduring a $65 billion to $70 billion trade deficit is a protectionist country," said J. Michael Farren, the Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade. "It's absolutely absurd to say that this market is closed or restricted. We have the most open market in the world."
Economists at international organizations tend to think that the United States, while far from pure, at least has a somewhat better record than its major trading partners. According to the World Bank, for example, Japan has high trade barriers covering a quarter of its imports. The United States and the European Community have such barriers only for a sixth of their imports.
The European Community's record is also worse than these figures might indicate, said Alexander J. Yeats, the principal economist in the World Bank's international trade division. Much of the European Community's imports enter duty free from allies in Africa and Europe, so that the brunt of the community's protectionism falls on the United States, Japan and other developing countries, he said.
Yet Americans still pay as much as $75 billion a year more for goods thanks to import fees and restrictions -- a sum equal to nearly a sixth of the nation's annual import bill of $490 billion.
Individually, the costs pile up slowly -- here a couple of extra dollars for a Hong Kong garment, there a few extra pennies for sugar from the Indian Ocean nation of Mauritius. But taken together, the losses to American consumers are significant because of a political system that tends to tax the majority to help the few who are hurting.
 
The Mechanics
Rag-Tag Group Of Trade Laws
 The United States has 3,600 product quotas, mostly for apparel and agriculture, and a few tariffs that run as high as 458 percent, Mr. Bovard said. But most industrial products are subject to only a modest tariff.
A succession of international trade agreements has made it harder for the United States and its major trading partners to impose quotas or high tariffs on industrial goods. The response, both in the United States and overseas, has been to devise laws and regulations that keep out specific products from a few countries for social policy as well as for economic reasons.
Federal contract rules setting aside money for minority businesses exclude foreign companies. And environmental groups have won a court decision banning imports of low-priced tuna from several dozen countries because they buy tuna from three countries that kill a lot of dolphins.
A Federal labeling regulation prevents Italy and Spain from labeling their bubbly wine as champagne because it does not come from the French region of that name, but allows American wineries to do so.
American law also allows companies, labor unions and the Federal Government to file legal cases against foreign producers charging that they get unfair government subsidies or are dumping goods at unfairly low prices in the United States. As a result of such cases, the United States has imposed special tariffs on pistachio nuts from Iran, residential door locks from Taiwan and frozen french fries from Canada.
These cases are easy to win and therefore more often filed when the dollar's value is high, as it was in the mid-1980's, or during an economic downturn, as occurred a decade ago. After a low of 29 cases in 1989, the number of trade case filings rose in 1990 and again in 1991 as the economy weakened.
The rag-tag collection of trade laws is a constant cause for complaint both by free-trade economists, because of the artificially high prices the restrictions produce, and by economists who advocate Government assistance to industry. Economists favoring government intervention say the rules should help high-technology, high-wage industries rather than just any industry with hired legal help and political muscle.
 
The Theory
Efficient Trade And How it Works
 Most of the arguments between the two schools revolve around the often mentioned and seldom explained concept of comparative advantage.
First detailed by David Ricardo in 1817, the theory of comparative advantage holds that countries should export products that they can produce relatively more efficiently than other countries and import products for which they are relatively high-cost producers.
Free trade economists typically contend that comparative advantages occur naturally from the available labor, capital and natural resources available in a given country. Interventionist economists contend that the government can choose industries that will thrive and give them subsidies and protection.
The unresolved question in this debate is whether government-assisted industries take away resources that a free market might otherwise send to new industries.
Take the case of Judith J. Meadows, a 19-year employee of a small-town blanket mill in North Carolina. She is an example of how people sometimes stay in protected industries instead of moving to more competitive businesses. After years of interest in nursing, she finally enrolled two years ago in part-time nursing courses at a local community college. She wants to become a licensed practical nurse and leave the shrinking textile industry even though it has been protected with trade barriers.
"People are just unsure of what's going on," Ms. Meadows said, and so are starting to look to other industries for job security.
Her new field, health care, has relatively few protections; it also does little to help the nation's trade deficit. And the Federal Government offers little retraining and relocation assistance to hundreds of thousands of American workers in industries that, unlike Ms. Meadows's, have not been given decades of protection to adjust to foreign competition.
 
The Pressures
Powerful Lobbies, National Security
 Few industries have been as successful as America's sugar producers in keeping prices two or three times above the world price with Washington's blessing. Sugar currently sells for 8.5 cents a pound internationally. But food processors that use sugar cannot import more than a quarter of the nation's consumption, and must pay 21.5 cents a pound in tariffs and foreign grower fees even for that.
For decades, the nation's big sugar producers and large users, led by the Coca-Cola Company, used to meet every year at the Sheraton-Carlton Hotel in Washington and strike deals on how much sugar each state would produce, how much sugar would be imported and what the price would be. "Then they'd go into Congress with their agreement and the bill would pass late one night," said Dalton Yancey, the chief Washington lobbyist for Florida and Texas sugar growers.
Legislative changes abolished that system in 1974. But the sugar growers' lobbying methods today run the gamut of techniques used by trade lawyers from many industries. They have hired a former senior Agriculture Department official specializing in trade issues to lobby for international agreements that will help the American industry.
They have enlisted the support of the corn sweetener industry, whose product is more expensive than imported sugar but less costly than domestically produced sugar. Six separate sugar-industry groups now lobby Congress, each promoting different regions and cps but all promoting protection from imports.
Japanese officials have repeatedly cited American protection of the sugar, peanut and dairy industries to justify their ban on rice imports and high tariffs on beef and orange imports.
American farmers have not been alone in obtaining protection. America's increasing dependence on high-technology imports has raised national security concerns and allowed other industries to seek trade barriers.
Last December, the Government renewed so-called voluntary restraints on imports of computer-controlled metal-cutting tools from Japan and Taiwan as a way to protect America's machine tool industry.
In a speech Jan. 24 to counter criticism of the move, Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, said: "The machine tool decision was not taken through the Trade Policy Review Group but rather through the national security review, which was chaired by the National Security Council, and defense policy considerations weighed in very heavily."
The Pentagon's concern was that military contractors were losing the ability to set up factories for important weapons without relying on foreign equipment. But restricting equipment imports also forces up the costs of American factories, making other American products less competitive in world markets.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Trade Disputes and Penalties" shows the number of annual trade cases filed with the Commerce Department from '80-'91.; And the number of cases resulting in punitive tariffs from '80-'91. (Figures for 1991 are through Oct. 25.) (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; IMPORT QUOTAS; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ICE CREAM (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (76%); CHEESE (76%); FOOD PRICES (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); NATURAL FIBERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); MARTIAL ARTS (52%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



236 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2746 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking Foreign Affairs: Are They Still a U.S. Affair?

SERIES: After the Cold War -- Last of six articles.

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6

 BODY:
When the editors of Foreign Affairs magazine talk about the foreign policy article they would most like to publish today, they dream of "X."
That was the pseudonym George F. Kennan used for his classic Foreign Affairs article published in July 1947. In one word, it set the American foreign policy agenda for the next four decades, through the cold war. The word was containment. 
 The article argued that the West should simply try to contain the spread of Communism, rather than work to overthrow or soften it. Eventually, Mr. Kennan wrote, Communism would collapse from rot within.
 
Beauty of Containment
 "Now that the cold war is over," said Peter Grose, executive editor of Foreign Affairs, "we are looking for another X -- someone who can come along and write the single article laying down the architecture that will shape our foreign policy for the next 40 years."
But so far no one has come forward, and it won't be so easy.
The beauty of containment was that it provided a seemingly easy guide for policy makers, telling them what was important and what was not, what was a threat and what was not, where they should put their resources and where they should not. But with the passing of the cold war, no new byword has come along.
"We have a foreign policy today in the shape of a doughnut -- lots of peripheral interests, but nothing at the center," said Michael Mandelbaum, a foreign-policy expert at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. "There is no one central problem from which all others emanate and which can be used to galvanize the public."
Instead of one core issue, it appears that future American foreign policy will focus on at least three loosely related issues that were peripheral before: Coping with the disintegration of the former Communist world and the nationalist forces that it has unleashed; controlling the spread of missiles and nuclear technology, and making sure the United States has access to foreign markets at a time of increasing global economic integration.
None of those loosely related challenges can grab America's attention the way Khrushchev did when he pounded a table with his shoe, or tried to put nuclear missiles into Cuba. But the White House might end up missing those crude threats more than it thinks.
Without the specter of the cold war, isolationist tendencies are reappearing. Some voters are already beginning to see foreign policy as disconnected and irrelevant to their immediate lives -- something that diminishes and detracts from domestic policy, rather than something that holds positive benefits worthy of support for their own sake.
Many Americans, in effect, are beginning to see foreign policy as a luxury they can no longer afford, even though America's economic involvement with the rest of the world has never been greater, and dangerous security concerns remain.
President Bush felt compelled to offer a domestic rationale for his trip to Japan last month, so he uttered the mantra "jobs, jobs, jobs." But jobs are not the only concern.
"Reducing foreign policy to 'jobs, jobs, jobs,' not only trivializes it, but it puts the focus on only one aspect of American interdependence with the rest of the world," said Joseph Nye, an international-relations expert at Harvard University. "There has to be a better way of defeating isolationist arguments and justifying an internationalist policy."
For instance, Mr. Nye said, the United States has a pressing interest in insuring stablity in Europe and Asia -- if for no other reason than to avoid getting drawn into conflicts there again. The American people, he said, have to be made to understand that maintaining NATO and the United-States-Japan security alliance "is like having an insurance policy on your house -- you don't expect it to be burned down, but you would be a damn fool not to have an insurance policy."
The new challenges that will make up American foreign policy are compelling, even if they they don't easily fit on a bumper sticker. The most immediate of those will be dealing with the problems and opportunities arising from the crumbling of the Soviet Union.
The challenge for policy makers is to insure that whatever states emerge from the disintegrated Soviet empire will be stable, free-market societies, their nuclear weapons either destroyed or well controlled.
Traditional arms control and classic Kremlinology are almost irrelevant to such questions, and experts all over government are now having to retool.
The disintegration of the Soviet Union has greatly diminished the threat to the United States of nuclear annihilation in one blow. But Soviet nuclear scientists are now hungry for work, controls on Soviet weapons exports have been loosened, and the Chinese need to sell missiles for cash.
No wonder, then, that at least six third-world countries are expected to possess intercontinental ballistic missiles before the end of the decade, and that eight others already have or are close to developing nuclear weapons, according to a recent Administration study.
It was a sign of the times that when Vice President Dan Quayle recently tried to defend continued financing for the "Star Wars" program, he didn't mention Moscow. Instead, he said that a missile defense system was necessary to protect "law abiding" countries from "international outlaws, thugs and blackmailers" like Iraq or North Korea.
The third set of challenges results from the increasing integration of the world economy that has coincided with the end of the cold war.
Whether the United States is forging its own free-trade areas with Canada and Mexico or breaking down barriers with Japan and the European Community, American diplomats will be trying to insure that the United States has the widest access to markets around the globe. It means confronting what President Bush has named the new "Iron Curtain of protectionism."
Those three new issues are giving birth to a new style of American diplomacy. When Washington has a problem today, it can no longer just get on the hot line and dial the Kremlin. Nor does it have the money to go it alone. Nor for that matter are its allies likely to give Washington its way as easily as before, now that they are less in need of American protection from the "Evil Empire."
Therefore, the new bywords of American foreign policy have grown to be "multilateral diplomacy" -- lining up German, Saudi and Japanese money, United Nations endorsements and American muscle to do collectively what the United States or the Soviet Union might have once done alone, or in recent years together.
"We are simply not going to be able to get our way as often as before and we had better get used to it," said a senior American policy maker.
 
The New Era
Foreign Affairs, Minus Soviets
 Edward P. Djerejian, the former American Ambassador to Syria, was in the garden of his residence in Damascus the evening of June 20, 1989. Most of the city's other foreign diplomats were there, as were many senior Syrian officials. Ambassador Djerejian was giving a surprise birthday party, but it wasn't only the guest of honor who was stunned. That was because Mr. Djerejian was giving the party for his close friend Aleksandr Zotov, the Soviet Ambassador.
"When the Syrians saw that party, they really got a microcosm of the new world," Mr. Djerejian said. "They understood that the relationship between the United States and the Soviet Union was really changing."
In the months after that, he said, "when I would come to them to talk about free-market reforms, terrorism, the peace process, they were much more responsive."
Bernard W. Aronson, Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, recalls that his first trip in his new post was not to Central or South America, but to Moscow.
"I went there precisely to deal with the problems of the region -- mainly Nicaragua," he said. "Today, when I think of how to deal with the problems of the region, I am more likely to go down the street to the O.A.S. headquarters."
The first sign of that new emphasis was in the way the United States responded to the coup in Haiti in September, by mobilizing the Organization of American States to impose sanctions on the military-led Government in Port-au-Prince until it restored the democratically elected President.
"The Latins and Caribbeans are much more willing to cooperate with the United States because they recognize that the democractic game is the only game in town," Mr. Aronson said. "But we also have an interest in relying more on multilateral approaches to prove that we are not going to be bullies, and the new world order is not going to be an American imperium. Also, we alone cannot sustain the level of resources required to address the problems of the hemisphere."
As Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, Herman Cohen used to spend a lot of time in a seemingly incongruous place: Tampa, Fla. But that is the headquarters of the Pentagon's Central Command, which has responsibility for the Persian Gulf and Indian Ocean and saw East Africa as an area of competition with the Soviets.
"During the cold war, it was really non-African issues that dominated African policy," Mr. Cohen said. "We wanted a base in Somalia, use of an air field in Kenya, prepositioned equipment in Djibouti. That took up a lot of my time."
In the 1970's American military assistance to Africa hovered near $300 million a year. Today it is $30 million a year, and much of that is spent on coastal patrol boats to help African nations protect their fishing industries from Korean and other foreign poachers. Mr. Cohen is free to spend more time coordinating assistance to the continent's governments and trying to push them toward democracy.
That was supposed to be America's agenda in Africa all along. But it wasn't, because of competition with the Soviets in places like Angola and Ethiopia.
As for travel, Mr. Cohen says Tampa is now being replaced by Tokyo.
"Japan's aid budget to Africa is $1.2 billion a year," he said. "That is bigger than ours. We have an interest in getting them to spend in ways that are consistent with our own agenda."
 
The New Experts
Bringing Civics To Ex-Soviets
 Nowhere in the State Department has the end of the cold war had more of an effect than on the Soviet desk.
"The whole job of the Soviet desk changed over the three years I was there," said Alexander Vershbow, who headed the Soviet desk from 1988 until the fall of 1991. "When I took over, the principal task was still carrying out the policy of containment in all its aspects -- fighting Soviet imperialism in Afghanistan, arms control, monitoring the travel of Soviet diplomats in the United States. Today, the central task of the Soviet desk is helping to refashion former Soviet society and bring it into the free world."
Since the breakup of the Soviet empire, the Soviet desk has reorganized itself more around expertise on individual republics, and also hung out a new shingle: "Office of Independent States and Commonwealth Affairs."
Previously expertise in the sub-nationalities "was a sidelight handled by a few odd folks who took an interest in Central Asia," as Mr. Vershbow put it. "Now, we are creating desk officers to deal with the individual republics, and we're stocking our missions inside the former Soviet Union with Ukrainian and Turkmenistani speakers."
But not only do Soviet experts have to know more about Soviet nationalities, Mr. Vershbow said, they also have to be much more knowledgeable about basic American institutions, and concepts like federalism, taxation and separation of powers.
"One of the biggest skills you need now on the Soviet desk is basic American civics, because in a sense that is what the republics most want and need from us," Mr. Vershbow said. "They want to know how a judicial system really works and how our whole political process works. These republic leaders come parading through Washington every day now and you have to be able to steer them to the right expertise."
 
The Choices
Domestic Support, Moral Choices
 When President Bush met with leaders of Jewish organizations in November, he made a strenuous appeal for help in supporting the Administration's foreign aid bill. With the cold war over, he said, the Jewish groups, with their focus on Israel, might be the last political constituency in America backing foreign aid.
"The American people never really endorsed Harry Truman's support for NATO, Bretton Woods or the Marshall Plan," said Representative David Obey, the Wisconsin Democrat who chairs the House Foreign Operations subcommittee. "They acquiesced in them, though, because they knew he was engaged at home, because they were animated by the cold war and because Truman was operating in the context of a balanced budget and rapidly rising family income. All of those are absent today."
That has begun to force some hard choices. Since the cold war's end, foreign aid for countries like Pakistan, the Philippines, Turkey, Israel, and most of Sub-Saharan Africa -- which were once thought of as essential chess pieces in the great cold-war game of nations -- seems to many a wasteful luxury.
The Administration is reluctant to ask the American people for new money to support emerging democracies in the former Soviet Union and is taking the funds instead from old aid recipients. How long Washington will even maintain so many embassies around the world is in question.
"What many internationalists don't understand," Mr. Obey said, "is that if they insist that we stay involved up to our elbows in all corners of the world, they will experience a backlash from the American public that will make it difficult to stay involved anywhere."
The Administration says "we need to defend ourselves against this risk and that risk," Mr. Obey continued. "But the average American family feels at risk every day when they walk out of the house with no health insurance. So you have to make choices."
Mr. Obey argued that the Administration must begin differentiating between immediate and important foreign policy issues and others that are marginal. If it does not, he said, the American public will not discriminate either.
The result, he suggested, will be a more isolationist country unless the foreign-policy managers "engage in the same self-discipline that people on the domestic side of the ledger have been asked to engage in for the past 15 years."
That is another reason, said Michael J. Sandel, a Harvard University political theorist, that America's role in the world "must be redefined with an affirmative purpose that will command domestic political support and the spending it would require to implement."
Containment was a negative definition of purpose. For Mr. Sandel, the obvious affirmative policy is to nourish emerging democracies in the former Communist world and elsewhere: that can be justified on security grounds using the argument that democracies rarely initiate aggressive wars, and on moral grounds because spreading democracy is the natural expression of America's deepest ideals.
But as worthy and logical as such goals might be, investing in the prevention of chaos in the former Soviet Union is nevertheless an abstraction to most Americans.
"What is peculiar to the United States," Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger said in a recent address, "is that every generation or so we debate not only the merits of this or that policy, but the existential purpose of American foreign policy itself.
"Such a debate would be almost unthinkable in most other countries, where foreign policy is deemed to serve national interests, which themselves are seen as timeless and immutable."
But in the United States, "we have tended to believe that our foreign policy must serve a moral purpose," Mr. Eagleburger said. Therefore, any time America finds itself unable to steer clear of foreign engagements, it needs to justify them by viewing them as some sort of moral crusade -- whether it was making the world safe for democracy after World War I, or against Communism after World War II.
"But crusades eventually run their course," he continued, "and we are then left without a rationale for policy once the crusade is over."
With the cold war's end, he concluded, "it may well develop that we are on the lip of a period of absence of clear purpose, as we enter the final years of the century."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Market Access: Another issue that is likely to move to front and center of the thinking of American foreign policy strategists is insuring American access to foreign markets. President Bush, during a trip to Japan last month intended to persuade Japan to lower trade barriers, attended the opening of a Toys 'R' Us store in Kashihara. (Reuters); Nuclear Containment: A third issue that is likely to become a dominant issue is controlling the spread of missiles and nuclear technology. The warhead above was loaded onto a truck in Ukraine to be taken to Russia. (Associated Press); An Emerging Nationalism: The disintegration of the former Communist world has unleashed a new nationalism that is likely, with the end of the cold war, to move from the periphery of American policy to its core. (Associated Press) (pg. A10)
 
Graph: "Foreign Aid: A Slimmer Look" shows the dollar amounts of total U.S. foreign aid each year from '46-'91* (*Estimate). (Source: Congressional Research Service, Library of Congress) (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UKRAINE (72%); 

COMPANY: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UKRAINE (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); FOREIGN POLICY (91%); COLD WAR (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (66%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



237 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Personal Finance;
The Harkin Family Climbs the Economic Ladder

BYLINE: By MARY B. W. TABOR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CUMMING, Iowa, Jan. 29

 BODY:
If Senator Tom Harkin's populist oratory has been driven by the hardships he knew growing up here as a coal miner's son, so has his push for his own piece of the American pie.
Neighbors in this tiny town southwest of Des Moines tell of a boy who worked long hours baling hay to help his family make ends meet. Now, by his own account, the Senator has earned a slice of the pie, and he seems determined to enjoy it. 
 On that note, some critics complain that Mr. Harkin's speeches occasionally ring hollow -- that even as he criticizes the ways of the wealthy, he accepts donations from the likes of A.T.& T., invests in the stocks of major corporations and enjoys a comfortable financial cushion of his own.
Indeed, far from the days when he shared a two-bedroom house with his parents and five siblings here, Senator Harkin and his wife, Ruth, now claim a significant income, and his assets may total as much as $800,000, including a vacation home in the Bahamas.
 
A Thunderbird, a Corvette
 Tax returns released during his 1990 Senate campaign list the Harkins' 1989 gross income at $247,100. Mrs. Harkin, who has earned a corporate lawyer's salary since 1983, drives a 1990 Thunderbird. The Senator, whose Senate pay is $125,100 this year, drives a 1977 Corvette.
Still, in contrast to his brash, liberal politics, Mr. Harkin's personal financial profile is conservative, according to his financial disclosure reports, other public records and interviews.
"Many times, Tom has said in his speeches that he is the product of the American dream," says Mrs. Harkin, a lawyer with Akin, Gump, Hauer & Feld in Washington and former deputy general counsel in the Department of Agriculture.
 
Up the Economic Ladder
 "If you look at our financial picture, you see that he has moved up the economic ladder in a steady but fairly conservative way," she said. "Our chief investments go toward the education of our children."
To that end, the Harkins, who 10 years ago had no investments aside from real estate, now have money in 19 separate accounts. These investments, mostly in Government bonds, municipal bonds and mutual funds, are valued between $1,001 and $100,000 on Federal Election Commission reports, which do not show exact amounts but require only that assets and liabilities be listed in ranges. Between 20 and 40 percent of the couple's holdings are investments of less than $15,000 listed in the names of their two daughters, Amy, 15 years old, and Jenny, 10.
The Harkins' common stock holdings are in Johnson & Johnson and the IVAX Corporation of Miami. Both companies are involved in pharmaceuticals that are regulated by the Food and Drug Administration, an agency overseen by three of the committees on which Mr. Harkin serves: Agriculture, Appropriations, and Labor and Human Resources.
There is no indication that the Senator took any official action that affected the companies or their stocks.
According to public records and 1990 tax returns, the Harkins' greatest assets are in real estate, including a home in Alexandria, Va., valued at $278,270; a vacation house and adjacent property in Abaco, Bahamas, worth $190,000, and an apartment duplex in Indianola, Iowa, a small town southeast of Des Moines, that they rent out. It is assessed at $78,906.
The Harkins' only debts are two mortgages, one on the Alexandria home and one on the Indianola duplex.
Friends and family members alternately describe the Senator with words like "thrifty" and "cheap." They also say he is given to asking whether staff workers are being paid too much, taking subways instead of taxis and buying in bulk. That is in part because of how he grew up, friends say.
Senator Harkin's mother died of cancer when he was 10, and his father died later of black lung disease.
Though the Senator declined to be interviewed, friends and neighbors here say they remember young Tom Harkin as on an incessant quest for work so that he could pay for college.
He attended Iowa State University on a Navy R.O.T.C. scholarship and lived with his older brother, John, to save money.
In 1972, Mr. Harkin pulled together $22,000 in donations and made his first, and ultimately unsuccessful, run for Congress. In 1974, he ran again and won, this time with a fund of $120,000.
By 1990, the scope of Senator Harkin's campaigns had grown: He spent about $6 million in a re-election effort that has been called the most expensive Senate race ever in Iowa.
In reports filed last week, Mr. Harkin reported that $2.2 million had been raised for his Presidential campaign. Most of that money has come in small, individual donations, though the Senator does accept contributions from political action committees, a stance for which he has been criticized.
But the financial issue that has raised the most questions about Mr. Harkin lately has been his dealings with his wife's law firm, which is deeply embedded in the Washington political establishment.
In May of 1990, Mr. Harkin set up a trust fund under Congressional rules to pay expenses in a libel suit against him and two aides. The suit was ultimately dismissed. But in the months that followed, Mr. Harkin failed to report that Akin, Gump had provided more than $300,000 worth of free legal services for the two aides.
He finally did file the report, but it was at least 18 months late, prompting questions about whether Mr. Harkin was accepting favors. Kay Casstevens, a campaign spokesman, said the reporting delay was an oversight.
 
Supporters He Can Count On
 Mr. Harkin's own legal bill from that suit came to $162,646, which came due last Dec. 31. By calling his most loyal and generous contributors starting last fall, he was able to collect the money and pay the bill on time, and in doing so, he provided a picture of where he turns for backing.
Donations toward the legal bill had already come from labor and corporate sources, like the Machinists Non-Partisan Political League and the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. So Mr. Harkin looked to the likes of Sydney Pollack, the movie producer; Smith Bagley, the Reynolds tobacco heir, and Mary Woodward Lasker, the New York philanthropist. Among those who gave the $10,000 maximum allowed under Senate ethics rules, were William W. Harris, a Massachusetts investor, and Dwayne Andreas, the chairman of the Archer Daniels Midland Company.
Both A.T.& T. and Archer Daniels Midland, a multibillion-dollar commodities company, are represented in Congressional lobbying by Akin, Gump.
Though Mrs. Harkin has lobbied for agricultural interests as an Akin, Gump lawyer, she says she has never lobbied her husband on their behalf. Her firm, she added, "has no professional relationship" with Mr. Harkin.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Harkin's Financial Picture"
 
ASSETS
 
Real Estate
 House and property in Alexandria, Va.: $278,270
 House and property in the Bahamas: $190,000
 House and property, Indianola, Iowa: $78,906
 
1989 Househole Income: $247,100
 Stocks and Bonds: $46,000-$351,000 (between $10,010 and $150,000 in children's names)
 Bank Deposits: $54,000 to $65,000
 
LIABILITIES
 Bank loans for mortgages: $156,000 to $206,000
 
TOTAL NET WORTH: $441,200 to $807,200
 
(Sources: Federal and state financial disclosure reports, Iowa and Virginia assessors, stock reports).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (60%); TEVA (TASE) (60%); TEVA (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (60%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BAHAMAS (92%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY AKIN GUMP STRAUSS HAUER & FELD LLP (82%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (60%); TEVA PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRIES LTD (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BAHAMAS (92%); IOWA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; FINANCES, PERSONAL; SURVEYS AND SERIES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (87%); CONSERVATISM (86%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); BONDS (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); COMMON STOCK (74%); CHILDREN (73%); LAWYERS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POLITICS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (70%); LIBERALISM (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (65%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (60%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); 

PERSON: TABOR, MARY B W; HARKIN, TOM (SEN) TOM HARKIN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



238 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Dispute Over Seized Islands Delays Tokyo Aid to Russia

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 6

 BODY:
fter decades of failed efforts to settle its territorial dispute and conclude a peace treaty with the Soviet Union, Japan has found to its dismay that Russia appears even less willing or able to make concessions demanded by Tokyo on this issue, Japanese officials say.
As a result, they say, prospects for large-scale economic aid to halt Russia's economic slide remain elusive. And Japanese diplomats acknowledge that this situation again places Tokyo out of step with the United States and European countries that are working more and more closely with Moscow. 
 "The whole world is looking at Russia as a splendid new country that should be praised," a Japanese diplomat said. "Of course, they have abandoned Communism. But for us, it is basically the same country. The people are the same. And I think we have a difficult neighbor again."
Such guarded comments are being uttered quietly in Government circles these days after a series of diplomatic contacts, including meetings last week in Moscow between the Japanese Foreign Minister, Michio Watanabe, and the Russian Foreign Minister, Andrei Kozyrev.
Mr. Watanabe's visit was actually an embarrassment for Japan because he was supposed to meet with President Boris N. Yeltsin, only to have the Russian leader abruptly cancel, disappear and turn up the next day on a ship in the Black Sea to inspect the disputed fleet there.
A diplomat traveling with Mr. Watanabe said the Foreign Minister came away disappointed that there had been no new response from the Russians on the longstanding dispute over three islands and one group of islets in the Kurile chain north of Japan that are held by Russia but claimed by Tokyo.
The islands were seized in the final days of World War II, a step that Japan continues to regard as an act of aggression. But Russians living in the eastern frontier, particularly the island of Sakhalin, increasingly express concern that Japan is making an unreasonable and revanchist claim.
There have been many attempts to settle the territorial issue since 1956, when the Soviet Union first suggested that it would be willing to return two of the islands and negotiate the others. Moscow changed its mind when Japan signed a security treaty with the United States in 1960.
 
Humanitarian Aid Pledged
 All through the perestroika and glasnost of Mikhail S. Gorbachev, Japan held to its position that no aid was possible until Moscow agreed to return all the islands. The line was reiterated last spring, when Mr. Gorbachev visited Tokyo and implored the Japanese for aid and investment.
Early last year, Japan came up with $100 million for food, drugs and aid to victims of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster, as against billions of dollars that experts said was needed. At a meeting in Washington last month, Mr. Watanabe pledged an additional $50 million in humanitarian aid to Russia.
But even now, most of this money has not yet been spent because of delays in establishing administrative mechanisms, which Japanese say is the fault of those in Russia and the other republics.
Last fall, after the failed coup against Mr. Gorbachev, Japan shifted course and pledged a $2.5 billion aid package, but none of this money has been disbursed either. Moreover, almost all of this aid is in the form of credits and insurance to make it a little easier for Russians to buy Japanese products.
Tokyo has asked Moscow to channel the aid to eastern Russia, and Japanese say the Russians agree. The rationale of concentrating on the vicinity closest to Japan is described here as a sensible "division of labor," not as a ploy to establish a future sphere of influence.
But Japanese officials clearly hope that aid in eastern Russia might soften Russian opposition to handing over the disputed islands. It is eastern Russia, in any case, that Japan looks to for business investment in such areas as gas and oil exploration.
As for such private investment, Japan has said no to almost all large-scale projects, with the exception of a tentative green light to a consortium led by the Mitsui Corporation to undertake an $8 billion to $10 billion project to explore reserves of oil and gas off Sakhalin Island. This project is going ahead because it has been under discussion with Moscow since the 1970's, according to officials at the Ministry of International Trade and Industry, which will be required to make loans or grant insurance benefits for it.
 
Investment Seen as Too Risky
 Japanese industrialists say that large-scale investments in Russia or the other former Soviet republics are too risky right now to be undertaken without some similar form of insurance or guarantees from the Japanese Government. And such help is not to be forthcoming because of the territorial dispute.
"Because we do not have any peace treaty with the Soviet Union, we cannot do too much to assist them," said Sozaburo Okamatsu, director of international trade policy at the Ministry of International Trade and Industry.
Mr. Okamatsu and other Japanese officials acknowledged that Japan's position puts it somewhat out of step with Germany, France and even the United States, all of which are encouraging more private investment and aid to the new Commonwealth of Independent States.
Germany has been openly critical of the United States and Japan for not doing more to help Russia out of its economic troubles. Such comments only cause Japanese to complain that everyone thinks its resources are endless and that it should invest in uneconomic projects.
 
Resolution Appears Elusive
 Chances of early progress on the territorial issue seemed to fade even further when Mr. Yeltsin told Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa at the United Nations last week that he could not visit Japan until September, far later than Tokyo had hoped.
News organizations here portrayed Tokyo as once again left out of the crowd by pointing out that Japan, the least enthusiastic country in terms of aiding Russia, will accordingly be the last industrialized democracy visited by Mr. Yeltsin.
Mr. Miyazawa also underscored Japan's skeptical attitude when he told Prime Minister John Major of Britain that a large-scale aid program for Russia right now, in the absence of progress on the territorial issue, would go against popular sentiment at home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KURILE ISLANDS; COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; JAPAN; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) JAPAN (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (79%); EUROPE (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); WORLD WAR II (50%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (50%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R MICHIO WATANABE (66%); MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



239 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Bush Is Vague on Health Plan's Details

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6

 BODY:
The same political concerns that compelled President Bush to announce a "comprehensive health reform program" today also obliged him to be vague about many details.
But the details may be less important than the fact that Mr. Bush has finally joined the national debate on overhauling the health-care system, a debate from which he had been conspicuously absent. 
 Merely by advancing a proposal of his own, Mr. Bush adds momentum to the drive to control health costs and making health care more readily available. His entry into the debate increases the chances that comprehensive health legislation will be enacted before long because "an aura of inevitability is upon us," as the Journal of the American Medical Association said in an editorial eight months ago.
 
Vague on Cost Control
 Mr. Bush's plan includes specific proposals aimed at one side of the health care debate: ways to improve access to care for some low-income people who are not already covered by Medicaid. By contrast, his cost-control strategy is utterly amorphous, underscoring the sensitivity of that question for politicians.
While it has become politically necessary for candidates to address health care in general, it is virtually impossible for them to make specific proposals without offending somebody. Thus Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and White House officials were unable to answer important questions today about how the President's plan would work.
Most experts agree the United States is spending enough on health care, more than $2 billion a day, but they say the money needs to be redistributed. The winners under Mr. Bush's plan would be the poor people who have no health insurance, along with self-employed people and those who work for businesses that do not provide health insurance coverage. Of the nation's 33.6 million people living below the poverty level, only 45 percent are covered by Medicaid, 26 percent by some other coverage and 29 percent have no health insurance.
Insurance companies would also win because they would have millions of new customers under Mr. Bush's plan. Poor people would get tax credits of up to $3,750 a year to buy such insurance. And many middle-income people could take tax deductions for the cost of insurance.
Potential losers under Mr. Bush's plan include Medicaid and Medicare beneficiaries, nearly one-fourth of the nation's population. Mr. Bush insists that their benefits will not be cut. But they may have less access to medical care if the Government reduces payments to doctors and hospitals to finance the tax credits and deductions. Mr. Bush proposed, for example, to cut special allowances now paid to teaching hospitals and to hospitals that serve large numbers of low-income patients.
Speaking for many physicians, Dr. Daniel Shea, president of the American Academy of Pediatrics, said he was "pleased that the President has joined the health-care reform debate." But he lamented Mr. Bush's "patchwork approach," saying "it will do little to insure that children get the health care they need." Twelve million of the 35 million people with no health insurance are children.
Republicans cheered Mr. Bush's decision to encourage competition in the health insurance industry without establishing an expensive new Government program. But even some Republicans were expressing qualms about Mr. Bush's proposals.
One of them, Representative Porter J. Goss of Florida, said he was glad to see Mr. Bush come forward with a proposal, but nervous about the possibility of an increase in premiums or a reduction in services for Medicare beneficiaries, who account for one-fourth of the 800,000 people residing in his district.
Analyzing Mr. Bush's proposal tonight, health-policy experts identified several apparent contradictions, problems and gaps:
*Mr. Bush says a major goal of his proposal is to increase the range of choices available to consumers when they select doctors, hospitals and health insurance. But at the same time, Mr. Bush would force Medicaid recipients into health maintenance organizations and other forms of "managed care," which often limit the patients' choice of doctors and hospitals.
*The value of the tax credits and tax deductions proposed by Mr. Bush would be "increased to account for inflation." But medical prices and commercial health insurance premiums have been rising at least twice as fast as the Consumer Price Index, so the value of the tax credits and deductions would be gradually eroded. Moreover, the amount of the credit and deduction would be the same in all states, despite wide variations in the cost of care.
*Mr. Bush's "comprehensive health reform program" says nothing about how to pay for nursing homes and other types of long-term care. Paul R. Willging, executive vice president of the American Health Care Association, a trade group for 11,000 nursing homes, and John C. Rother, legislative director for the American Association of Retired Persons, said this was a significant omission. Millions of older Americans and their families are at risk of being impoverished by the cost of nursing homes, which now averages $30,000 a year, Mr. Rother said.
*Under Mr. Bush's plan, insurers would have to offer coverage to all applicants, regardless of their medical history or health problems. This virtually guarantees an increase in insurance premiums for healthy people, but the Bush proposal says nothing about that. Under Mr. Bush's plan, insurers would eventually charge "uniform premiums for the sick and the healthy." How to accomplish such a radical change, he does not say.
*Mr. Bush says his proposal will slash administrative costs and eliminate a "paperwork blizzard" of health insurance claim forms. But some doctors, hospital executives and state welfare officials say the result could be an administrative nightmare, because they would have to ascertain whether people are eligible for tax credits and then help them buy insurance.
Insurance executives rejoiced at the prospect of millions of new customers, whose premiums would be subsidized by the Government under Mr. Bush's proposal. But they also expressed alarm at the idea that the Federal Government might regulate their rates and require them to write insurance for people known to have serious medical problems.
"The President's proposals are headed in the right direction," said Carl J. Schramm, president of the Health Insurance Association of America, which represents more than 300 insurers. "But we have concerns about the technical aspects of his proposed insurance reforms. Some of the proposals have no prototype in practice. How will they work? It's not clear."
Representative Barbara B. Kennelly, Democrat of Connecticut, the home of more than two dozen insurance companies, said: "Insurance companies don't take risks any more. They really are going to have to change their ways and make major reforms if they want to keep a private health insurance system in this country."
The implications of Mrs. Kennelly's comment have dawned slowly on many Republicans, including Mr. Bush. The problems in the nation's health-care system have become so severe that if change is deferred for several years, Congress may ultimately approve a more radical solution, in which the Federal Government encroaches even more upon the private practice of medicine and the role of private health insurance.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, left, and White House officials were unable to answer important questions about how the President's health insurance plan would work. With Mr. Sullivan, from left, were, Kevin E. Moley, Assistant Health Secretary, Thomas A. Scully, associate budget director, and Michael Graetz, Assistant Treasury Secretary. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE HEALTH CARE POLICY (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MEDICAID (89%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (88%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); MEDICARE (75%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); POPULATION SIZE (72%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (67%); INCOME TAX (65%); INSURANCE (63%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (62%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SULLIVAN, LOUIS W (SEC) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



240 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: DEMOCRACY PUSH IN HAITI BLUNTED

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Feb. 6

 BODY:
With the return of hundreds of Haitians this week from the American-run refugee camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and the relaxation of a United States embargo against Haiti, the momentum of a four-month-old effort to restore democracy in this country appears to have been badly blunted.
Only a week ago, as pressure generated by the refugee crisis rose in Washington, officers in the Haitian Army who were involved in a coup against the country's first elected Government in September were anxiously approaching politicians for help in obtaining foreign visas to escape a widely rumored foreign intervention. 
 From the start of the repatriation effort on Monday, however, the mood in army and political circles began to turn from anxiety to confidence that the United States, feeling no particular domestic pressure now from Haiti's problems, would leave them in peace, despite the ouster of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide as President.
On Tuesday, when Washington announced that it would begin selectively removing sanctions against industrial concerns to help revive a choking economy, the mood of optimism among many who supported the coup turned to bravado and frankly expressed glee.
 
'No Longer Any Urgency'
 At ceremonies Wednesday, where officers carrying ivory-handled swords saluted the promotion of the army commander, Raoul Cedras, to the rank of lieutenant general amid the boom of a 21-gun salute, the new mood of confidence was everywhere in evidence.
"There is no longer any urgency," a smiling Senator Thomas Eddy Dupiton said of now-stalled negotiations with the Organization of American States in which he has been taking a leading part. "We are heading in the direction of absorbing this crisis."
"They never thought we could stick it out for two months, and here we are four months later," Col. Joseph. L. Florestant, a member of the Haitian High Command, said in an interview at a palace reception. "Now the O.A.S. finds itself in a pigsty, and they are the ones who don't know what to do."
Signs of growing confidence in their defiance cropped up in other places as well. At least one United States Coast Guard ship was forced to steam idly between Haiti and Cuba while diplomats entertained complaints from Haiti's provisional Government that "logistical problems," were forcing a temporary delay in repatriations. The process resumed today, when two shiploads of refugees were returned here.
Diplomats said they knew of no real logistical problems, but acknowledged that the Haitian authorities had recently demanded that $100 be provided each of the thousands of Haitians to be returned from Guantanamo, rather than the $15 that has traditionally been distributed by the Red Cross.
Father Aristide, who is in exile in Venezuela, and his supporters have condemned both the American repatriation effort and the tentative relaxation of the embargo as the selling-out of Haiti and have begun tentative efforts to mobilize popular resistence to the provisional Government.
 
Cost Too High, U.S. Says
 United States diplomats denied that the total embargo was being lifted or that Haiti's coup was being recognized. But they said the human and economic costs that a blanket embargo had caused were too high for the meager results the sanctions had produced, bringing the provisional Government to the negotiating table.
Diplomats said the news of a selective relaxation in the embargo was first given here with an O.A.S.-backed candidate for the post of prime minister, Rene Theodore, so he could be the bearer of the good economic news.
The candidacy of Mr. Theodore, a pragmatic, longtime leader of Haiti's small Communist Party was seriously set back 11 days ago by a violent daytime raid by the Haitian police on a meeting Mr. Theodore was holding with leaders of other parties.
American diplomats have said they expect General Cedras to discipline hard-line leaders of the police who they believe directed the attack on Mr. Theodore. O.A.S. officials, meanwhile, say they still hope for a parliamentary vote to ratify Mr. Theodore, the first step in forming a consensus government that would eventually oversee Father Aristide's return from exile.
But on Wednesday Colonel Florestant, one of General Cedras's closest advisers, said Mr. Theodore's candidacy "has been consigned to oblivion," and denied that police officials required any disciplining.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; EMBARGOES; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS REFUGEES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ARMIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); MILITARY VESSELS (71%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (56%); RAOUL CEDRAS (55%); CRAIG THOMAS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



241 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Memo;
Slogans, Stories and Strategy: The TV Campaign

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Feb. 6

 BODY:
For Bob Kerrey, politics is "a cause, not a career." (Subtext: He is not another blue suit from inside the Capital Beltway, even if he did take the Senate raise.)
Tom Harkin believes that "if you try to be all things to all people, you're nothing to anybody." (Subtext: He might sound awfully liberal, but he will never be accused of waffling -- like, oh, say, Bill Clinton.) 
 The "real story" of Bill Clinton is about a young man from a small town called Hope, "the son of a widow who taught him that anything was possible with hard work, faith and determination." (Subtext: Pay no attention to the tabloid Star.)
This is how most New Hampshire voters are meeting the five major candidates for the Democratic Presidential nomination: in the often heroic, sometimes poignant, occasionally cryptic images of their television advertising. The commercials on the air in recent days are a snapshot of strategy, message and positioning as the campaign enters the final stretch toward the first primary election.
 
Bob Kerrey
 It is a mystery to many political professionals why the Nebraska Senator's campaign has failed to catch fire when his life story intrigued so many of them for so long.
The biographical commercial on the air in recent days tries, once again, to tell this story: the man who "never ran from a fight," won the Medal of Honor in Vietnam, rehabilitated himself from the loss of a leg to the point where he ran a marathon.
It also casts him as an outsider who walked away from politics once, when he declined to run for re-election as Governor of Nebraska despite his popularity in the polls.
In another ad, Mr. Kerry reasserts his commitment to "forcing open Japanese markets" to put America back to work.
 
Tom Harkin
 The senator from Iowa is working with Ken Swope, a Boston media consultant who managed to find some passion in Michael S. Dukakis in the 1988 primary campaign. Mr. Harkin, the hottest speech-maker in the Democratic field, did not need a passion transplant.
Instead, in a series of commercials produced in an old textile mill, Mr. Swope found the visuals to match the emotional Harkin message: "You can look down this hallway and hear the echoes of the people who once worked here," Mr. Harkin says, as the camera wanders through empty shop floors, a ghostly scene broken only by a huge American flag. "And what they're saying to us is, 'Don't forget, don't give up, build it again.' "
In another ad made in the same mill, Mr. Harkin talks of his ability to beat Republicans and tries to address the electability question: Can this unrepentant voice of old-time Democratic religion beat George Bush? He also raises some doubts about his rivals who seek a more centrist cast. "I'm not trying to be all things to all people," Mr. Harkin says, although he mentions no names.
 
Bill Clinton
 In news reports, Mr. Clinton has been forced to battle charges that he had a 12-year extramarital affair, and just today, new questions about his draft status. In his advertising, he has surrounded himself with symbols of American virtue: flag, family and a bootstraps rise from humble roots.
In one of the Clinton biographical ads being broadcast in recent days, it is hard to find a scene without Old Glory in it.
The two Clinton commercials now on the air counter attacks on Mr. Clinton in two areas: his record as Governor of Arkansas and his character. The ads tout him as a Horatio Alger figure and promote his record as the Governor of Arkansas -- but only so much, at a time when many still remember the exaggerated claims Mr. Dukakis made for his "Massachusetts miracle." "It isn't a miracle," Mr. Clinton's announcer says. "It's just progress and a bit of hope."
 
Paul E. Tsongas
 The former senator from Massachusetts began a new commercial Wednesday night that returns to his core message: Here is an economic Daddy for the Democrats, a sober, grown-up candidate who offers "straight answers" instead of "gimmicks" like a middle-class tax cut. Coins are thrown on a table while the announcer declares, "Some candidates want to give you a tax cut of 97 cents a day. But will that create jobs?"
The commercial adds, "One candidate knows it's gimmicks and bigger deficits that got us into this mess."
 
Edmund G. Brown Jr.
 The Brown campaign has broadcast a 30-minute paid program on local television stations called "Take Back America." Featuring excerpts from speeches and interviews with citizens, it drives home Mr. Brown's theme that politics has become corrupted by the influence of special interest money and can only be redeemed by a grassroots movement.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Television commercials for Democratic candidates are snapshots of strategy, message and positioning as the campaign enters the final stretch toward the first primary election. Clockwise from left were Paul E. Tsongas, Edmund G. Brown Jr. and Senators Tom Harkin and Bob Kerrey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); VIET NAM (54%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW HAMPSHIRE UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); VIET NAM (54%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; TELEVISION ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); RELIGION (69%); MARATHONS (64%); TEXTILE MFG (60%); TEXTILE MILLS (60%); FABRIC MILLS (60%); 

PERSON: KERREY, BOB (SEN); HARKIN, TOM (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); TSONGAS, PAUL E; BROWN, EDMUND G JR; TONER, ROBIN BILL CLINTON (90%); TOM HARKIN (79%); JERRY BROWN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



242 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Better-than-expected January sales were reported by the nation's largest store chains, but the results stood out against extremely low sales a year earlier. [D1.]
Treasury Secretary Brady all but abandoned the Administration's recommendations to overhaul the banking system by throwing his support behind a more modest approach. [D1.] 
 The Senate voted to streamline licensing procedures for new nuclear power plants. [D2.]
A hearing on the plan to overhaul the Government securities market degenerated into personal bickering. [D2.]
Barbara H. Franklin, Bush's nominee to become Commerce Secretary, said at her Senate confirmation hearing that a conflict of interest would bar from some areas. [D4.]
Factory orders in December were sharply lower and jobless claims were stagnant in late January, the Government said. [D17.]
The nation's luxury-boat builders got some good news when Bush asked Congress to repeal the luxury tax on yachts. [D1.]
The Administration supported a Senate action to speed up the phase-out of chemicals that damage the ozone layer. [A1.]
Saying it would make quality medical care affordable for all, Bush proposed several tax incentives and other changes. [A1.]
Loan frauds that dangle the prospect of quick cash for a fee are a fast-growing category of consumer complaints. [A1.]
Tax and growth legislation will be controlled by closed-door politics, not open arguments. Washington Talk. [A13.]
 
Companies
Salomon reported a $29 million quarterly loss, capping a tumultuous year that began with solid profits and ended with a shift toward conservative management following the scandal. [D1.]
Chrysler posted a small quarterly profit, overcoming huge losses earlier last year, thanks to a one-time gain from the sale of its interest in a venture with Mitsubishi. [D1.]
Continental Airlines filed a reorganization plan in which its major unsecured creditors will get stock. [D3.]
Owens-Corning Fiberglas said it took an $800 million charge to cover uninsured asbestos liabilities. [D3.]
The Racing Times closed. No buyer was found to rescue it from the upheaval that has torn apart the Maxwell empire. [D18.]
I.B.M. is considering selling two circuit-board assembly operations to Solectron, a maker of electronic products. [D3.]
 
International
In the debate over opening world markets to American goods, the U.S. does not come to the table with clean hands. [A1.]
Three European countries have proposed to their Western allies that they drop virtually all restrictions on exporting civilian telecommunications gear. [D1.]
Mazda introduced its new 626 compact, calling it the first "foreign" brand car to be classified as domestic for purposes of Federal fuel-efficiency regulations. [D5.]
 
Markets
Stocks were mixed in heavy, choppy trading. The Dow lost 2.01, to 3,255.59. [D6.] Prices of Treasury securities dipped. [D13.]
The dollar settled mostly lower in quiet trading. [D14.] Platinum futures advanced strongly. [D14.]
 
Today's Columns
Creating free markets in Russia and other poor countries may do more to slow global warming than any measures rich countries are likely to adopt, a study says. Economic Scene. [D2.]
Many German steel companies are expected to lose money on steelmaking operations this year. Market Place. [D6.]
Advertisers with endorsement pacts with Magic Johnson struggle to define their ties to him. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D18.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: OC (NYSE) (81%); UAL (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423330 ROOFING, SIDING & INSULATION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (81%); NAICS327993 MINERAL WOOL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS324122 ASPHALT SHINGLE & COATING MATERIALS MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3296 MINERAL WOOL (81%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: OWENS CORNING (81%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); RETAILERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); PRINTED CIRCUIT ASSEMBLY MFG (76%); CHEMICALS (76%); POLITICS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (76%); TAX LAW (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); EXCISE TAX (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); FACTORY ORDERS (69%); COMPANY LOSSES (69%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); BOAT BUILDING (68%); TAX INCENTIVES (67%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (65%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (65%); EXPORT TRADE (64%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (63%); ASBESTOS (61%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (56%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (56%); POWER PLANTS (56%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (56%); OZONE DEPLETION (52%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



243 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: Tenneco Posts a Loss

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 6

 BODY:
Tenneco Inc. said today that the recession and a major restructuring caused a loss of $26 million for the fourth quarter of 1991 and $732 million for the year. 
 The Houston-based company said its quarterly loss compared with earnings of $130 million, or $1.03 a share, in the quarter of 1990. Revenue fell 6.2 percent, to $3.64 billion from $3.88 billion. Tenneco's full-year loss compared with earnings of $561 million, or $4.37 a share, in 1990. Revenues fell 6.2 percent, to $13.6 billion, from $14.5 billion in 1990. The 1991 losses included $552 million in charges to restructure various facets of its business, primarily at the J. I. Case farm and construction equipment unit. The fourth-quarter loss also included a $65 million pretax provision for pending claims and litigation. Tenneco's share price gained $2.375 today, closing at $36.25 on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TEN (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (88%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: TENNECO INC TENNECO INC (96%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TENNECO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); TEXAS, USA (88%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY REVENUES (87%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); LITIGATION (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



244 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Senate Votes to Simplify Nuclear-Plant Licensing

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6

 BODY:
The Senate voted today to streamline licensing procedures for new nuclear power plants, approving a measure meant to help the flagging nuclear industry.
The amendment to the energy bill would end the current system by which the Nuclear Regulatory Commission separately licenses construction and then operation of plants and replace it with a single review procedure. Backers of the measure said it could reduce regulatory delays by up to 10 years, although its prospects in the House remain highly uncertain. 
 It was adopted by a unanimous voice vote, after the Senate rejected by a vote of 52 to 43 a weaker dereg ulatory amendment that would have granted citizens greater rights to go to court to stop the operation of a new nuclear plant after it was built.
The energy bill in the House, which is still in committee, does not now have a similar provision.
 
Part of Bush Strategy
 President Bush supports such regulatory change as part of his National Energy Strategy, which urges the development of more nuclear energy to satisfy utility needs by the year 2010. The Administration supports the energy bill, which grants permission for utilities to operate across state lines, and weakens regulations governing offshore oil drilling and construction of dams for the production of hydroelectric power.
As the Senate waded this week through scores of amendments in this complex and often arcane legislation, it also approved a measure that will set efficiency standards for electric lights and motors to save $2 billion in yearly energy costs. And in an action that disheartened environmentalists, the Senate rejected an amendment that would have required refiners and petroleum importers to increase production of nontraditional fuels and non-petroleum additives to gasoline.
Edward M. Davis, president of the American Nuclear Energy Council, praised the Senate action, saying it could "provide the stability and predictability needed by the financial community and the utility industry to construct advanced, standardized nuclear energy plants and is a necessary step in re-establishing public confidence in nuclear energy."
The nuclear power amendment has become one of the most controversial measures among environmentalists since the proposal to begin oil exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge was deleted from the legislation late last year. The nuclear power industry lobbied for the amendment, although much of the industry does not like the energy bill because of concerns that it favors competing energy industries, particularly electric utilities, even more.
 
'That's the American Way'
 Senator J. Bennett Johnston, Democrat of Louisiana and chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, argued in favor of the amendment, saying it was necessary to permit nuclear energy to compete with other energy sources. "We believe that through the competitive system you make the best decision on energy," he said. "That's the American way."
Opponents of the measure said it would seriously reduce the ability of citizens and states to appeal to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission that a plant is not safe once it is built.
"I think this is a step in the direction of more nuclear power, which means generating more nuclear waste," said Senator Paul D. Wellstone, Democrat of Minnesota. But he added that the measure, even if it was endorsed by the House, would not guarantee the resuscitation of the industry. "The problem is people are not going to want to have the plants where they live, and we also have to come up with a solution to nuclear waste disposal," he said in an interview.
 
Sierra Club Disappointed
 Daniel Becker, a lawyer for the Sierra Club, expressed disappointment with the Senate vote, saying, "We're deeply disappointed that the Senate voted to weaken protections in current law from nuclear peril."
More than 100 nuclear reactors have been canceled before operation in the last 20 years, including every plant ordered since the Three Mile Island accident in the late 1970's.
A few senators argued that the country needed to develop nuclear power to reduce air pollution and compete with other economic powers.
"Twenty-six percent of Japan's electric power now comes from nuclear reactors and the Japanese plan to double their nuclear capacity over the next two decades, bringing 40 new nuclear plants on line," said Senator Alan Simpson, Republican of Wyoming. "The Japanese trust a strategy where safety issues are resolved first. Why can't we?"
 
Some Provisions Added
 The deregulatory amendment gained the support of several senators after its sponsors added provisions that made Nuclear Regulatory Commission decisions to license plants subject to judicial review. Another provision that effectively watered down an original deregulatory proposal insists that the N.R.C. must assure that safety standards are met before a plant begins operations.
The Senate rejected an alternative amendment that would have also streamlined regulations but would have required post-construction court hearings if clear safety issues arose after the construction of a plant was completed.
Arguing in favor of the failed amendment, Senator Harry M. Reid, Democrat of Nevada, said, "Health and safety should be our watchwords, not further streamlining and speed."
But Mr. Johnston characterized the provision for a post-construction hearing as a "monster trial" that "would outlaw nuclear power as a potential source."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (72%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (72%); ALASKA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LICENSES NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (95%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (94%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); POWER PLANTS (92%); ENERGY REGULATION (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); APPROVALS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (86%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES REGULATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); OIL EXPLORATION (76%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); WILDLIFE (73%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (68%); OIL EXTRACTION (66%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); KRAUSS, CLIFFORD GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



245 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Small Profit Raises Hopes For Chrysler

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN

 BODY:
The Chrysler Corporation's fourth-quarter financial report displayed a ray of hope yesterday, but analysts cautioned that the No. 3 auto maker faced several more obstacles, including a fickle auto market, before it was out of the woods.
The company overcame huge losses last year and posted a small fourth-quarter profit, thanks to a one-time gain from the sale of its 50 percent interest in a joint car-making venture with the Mitsubishi Motors Corporation of Japan. 
 But Chrysler predicted that it would lose money in the current quarter as car sales remain sluggish and the company spends heavily to introduce the Jeep Grand Cherokee, the first of its new vehicles this year.
 
 
Year's Sales Fell 6%
 Without the $127 million after-tax gain from the sale to Mitsubishi of its share in the joint venture, Chrysler would have lost about $30 million in the quarter. The car-making venture, known as Diamond-Star Motors, is in Normal, Ill.
"We have had to manage our way through the worst market since 1983," said Lee A. Iacocca, chairman and chief executive of Chrysler. For the year, Chrysler's sales slipped about 6 percent.
Chrysler earned $97 million, or 33 cents a share, on revenue of $8.2 billion. That compared with earnings a year earlier of $31 million, or 14 cents a share, on revenue of $7.6 billion. For the year, Chrysler lost $795 million on revenue of $29.37 billion, compared with a 1990 profit of $68 million, or 30 cents a share, on revenue of $30.6 billion.
For the current quarter, Wendy Beale Needham, automotive analyst for Smith Barney, Harris Upham in New York, forecast that Chrysler would post a loss of about $93 million.
Financial analysts had been expecting the auto maker to report that it came close to breaking even in the fourth quarter. Chrysler is the first of the Big Three auto makers to report its fourth-quarter and 1991 results. But analysts predict that over all, Detroit recorded its worst year ever, rolling up a total of $7 billion in losses.
The General Motors Corporation, the industry leader, is expected to post a fourth-quarter loss of between $3 billion and $4 billion, including a one-time charge to cover the closing of 21 plants and the layoffs of more than 74,000 workers in the next several years. The Ford Motor Company is expected to post a $500 million loss for the fourth quarter. Ford and G.M. are expected to announce their results within a week.
 Investors have recently shown enthusiasm for Chrysler's stock, bidding the shares up more than 50 percent since late December, when it became clear that the auto maker had ended its huge losses. Chrysler stock closed at $16.25 a share today, down 25 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange, compared with $10 a share on Dec. 18.
Ms. Needham, one of the few automotive analysts to recommend the stock, said yesterday, "Investors haven't been paying attention to Chrysler's cost-cuting, its lean manufacturing methods and speedy product development." Several of the Chrysler models to be introduced in coming months have received positive reviews from enthusiast magazines and from spectators at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit last month.
Ms. Needham also noted that investors had been turning to automotive and other cyclical stocks of late because some believe the economy is turning up.
 
 
A Word of Caution
 Ronald A. Glantz, automotive analyst for Dean Witter Reynolds in San Francisco, warned that Chrysler's balance sheet remained weak, and "unless the economy turns around soon, the company may lack the resources to make it through this recession." Chrysler is pinning its hopes on the Jeep Grand Cherokee utility vehicle and a series of midsize cars, with the code-name L/H, that will go on sale later this year.
In the fourth quarter, Chrysler's sales of cars to its dealers were 421,785, a drop of 3.6 percent from a year earlier.
Although Chrysler's sales to dealers dropped 6 percent for the year, to 1,866,101 cars and trucks, the company's overall market share rose slightly, to 12.4 percent of the American market, from 12.3 percent a year earlier.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "A Positive Quarter in a Dismal Year" shows Chrysler's quarterly results in the years 1989-1991, and annual results from '81-'91. (Source: Company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); 7211 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (53%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (83%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (63%); DIAMOND-STAR MOTORS CORP (56%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (53%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; FINANCES; AUTOMOBILES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; FORECASTS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); CLOSINGS (60%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P WENDY BEALE NEEDHAM (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



246 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

PREYING ON THE DESPERATE
Fueled by a lingering recession that has made credit tight and people desperate, consumer-protection agencies throughout the New York metropolitan area say they have been inundated with complaints about schemes that target individuals stretched to the financial limit. A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
HOMELESS DISPUTE AT AIRPORT HOTEL
As New York City struggles toward a better way of sheltering the homeless, a failed tourist hotel hard by the runways of Kennedy International Airport is at the center of a dispute that symbolizes at once the failures of past policy and how difficult it is to overcome them. A1.
 
DIVISION, NOT CONSENSUS
The commission that Mayor Dinkins appointed to help relieve pressure on his administration and build political consensus for dealing with the daunting problem of the homeless has instead wound up putting highly public pressure on the Mayor and dividing his own advisers. News analysis, B2.
 
T.A. MONITORING CRITICIZED
The Transit Authority routinely failed to administer drug and alcohol tests to employees after they were involved in subway collisions, derailments or other questionable incidents in the 20 months before last August's fatal subway crash, according to a new report. B3.
 
GOTTI AND JUDGE BOTH ANGRY
Angry at a newspaper headline, Judge I. Leo Glasser threatened to move the trial of John Gotti out of New York City. Mr. Gotti responded by calling the judge and prosecutor names. B3.
 
SUBWAY ARTIST TRIUMPHANT
It took a long letter from her lawyer, an appeal to the First Amendment, countless conversations among countless lawyers and a three-page agreement with 10 detailed conditions, but Jenny Marketou came out on top. She finally got her seven large photographs of Greek-Americans reinstalled on the walls of a subway station in Jamaica, Queens. B3.
 
THAT MYSTERIOUS $50,000
New York City election officials said that they would consider $50,000 wired to Mayor Dinkins's re-election campaign to be an illegal contribution unless the campaign identifies its source and prove that the money was meant specifically to pay back funds taken by the campaign's former treasurer. B4.
 
REGION
 
POINT, COUNTERPOINT
A captain in the Teaneck Police Department contradicted a significant detail in an officer's testimony about the fatal shooting of a black teen-ager as two white officers chased him on April 10, 1990. B5.
 
SHUFFLING THE CARDS IN HARTFORD
Governor Weicker succeeded last year in overhauling Connecticut's revenue system and imposing an income tax by forging a coalition of liberal Democrats and Republicans. This year, in seeking to overhaul the spending system, Mr. Weicker has shuffled the political cards: new issue, new allies, new coalition. B5.
 
POLICE COMMISSIONER RESIGNS
Three days after a bitter confrontation with county legislators, the Suffolk County Police Commissioner submitted his resignation in a letter that advised the County Executive, "Don't lose your sense of humor." B5.
 
Neediest Cases B4
Our Towns B5


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRANSIT AUTHORITY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSIT AUTHORITY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE NEWS BRIEFS (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); LITERATURE (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (74%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (73%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); LAWYERS (71%); SHOOTINGS (68%); DRUG TESTING (67%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (67%); LIBRARIANS (61%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



247 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Continental Plan to End Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
Continental Airlines Holdings Inc. filed a bankruptcy reorganization plan yesterday in which its major unsecured creditors agreed to reduce the carrier's debt and interest costs sharply. In return, the creditors would get stock, making them owners of the airline.
If the plan is approved by the Federal Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Del., analysts say, it will greatly help the company survive the current slump and fare cutting in the airline business and enable it to become profitable in a recovery. 
 "This gives them the best chance at wiping the slate clean and starting over," said Helane Becker, the airline analyst for Shearson Lehman Brothers.
 
Has Remained Competitive
 Continental filed for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code in December 1990. But passengers and travel agents continued to support the airline after the filing, and the carrier also maintained a good cash position by selling assets.
The Continental plan is similar to one filed by Trans World Airlines last week. T.W.A.'s unsecured creditors agreed to reduce the carrier's debt by $1 billion in exchange for stock, and bondholders accepted much lower interest rates.
Under the Continental agreement, long-term debt would be reduced by about 70 percent, to $1.7 billion from $5.8 billion. This would help cut the airline's annual interest costs by $270 million.
It is expected that current stockholders will get nothing, which was what the airline had said for the last year. Continental stock closed at 43.75 cents the American Stock Exchange yesterday, off 56.25 cents.
In such situations. unsecured creditors often have little choice but to accept stock for debt because forcing an airline like Continental to liquidate can throw hundreds of planes and other assets on the market at a time when there is small demand for them.
One significant uncertainty remains. Continental has not reached an agreement with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, which has about $700 million in claims involving insufficient financing of the pension plan for Continental's defunct Eastern Airlines. When Eastern liquidated in January 1990, Continental was forced to take over the obligations.
 
Its Second Bankruptcy
 This is the second time that Continental has sought to reorganize under Chapter 11. In 1986, Frank Lorenzo, then the chairman of the Texas Air Corporation -- the forerunner of Continental Airlines Holdings -- put the carrier under Chapter 11, repudiated union contracts and cut costs and salaries. The airline was able to become profitable again, but it ran into trouble when it absorbed the failing People Express and lost support from business travelers because of service problems.
Continental, the nation's fifth-largest airline, continues to have problems attracting business travelers, who make up only about 25 percent of its passengers compared with about 50 percent for other big carriers.
Robert R. Ferguson 3d, vice chairman and chief executive of Continental, said that he was encouraged by a recent increase in traffic and that the bookings for the next several months seemed encouraging as well.
Under the plan, the company will keep its 43,000 employees and its present level of flights.
There have been talks about a possible merger with T.W.A., but they are at an early stage. The plan is not dependent on a merger and is meant to make the carrier workable as an independent airline without outside investment.
Kevin Murphy, the airline analyst for Morgan Stanley, said that of the three airlines now under Chapter 11 -- America West, T.W.A. and Continental -- Continental had the best chance to reorganize. He said that the airline was large enough to compete and had strong hubs in Newark and Houston, where the parent company is based.
The major creditors of the airline are bondholders who would take the largest loss in exchanging their debt for stock. There are 56,000 prepetition proofs of claim, totaling $4.3 billion, that would be converted to equity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (98%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (98%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (98%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (64%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (64%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (90%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CONTINENTAL AIRLINES HOLDINGS INC UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (98%); PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (64%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); NYSE MKT LLC (54%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONTINENTAL AIRLINES HOLDINGS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); DELAWARE, USA (90%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; CREDIT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); AIRLINES (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); CREDIT REGULATION (73%); BONDS (73%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); TRAVEL AGENTS (69%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



248 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Dip Ahead of Job Data

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities dipped and interest rates moved modestly higher yesterday, as dealers and their clients turned cautious in advance of the January employment report, which is scheduled to be released today.
"We have had a few clients ask us to lighten up positions in front of the number," one government securities trader said, "because they are very uncertain about what the number will be and how the market will react to it." 
 Based on an exceptionally wide range of estimates, economists are equally uncertain about what the data will show.
 
Up 100,000 to Down 125,000
 The most pessimistic forecasts look for a decline of around 125,000 in non-farm payroll employment, and a rise in the unemployment rate to 7.2 percent, from 7.1 percent currently.
Others, however, are projecting that payroll employment rose by 100,000 last month, and that the unemployment rate declined.
Traders said a report yesterday showing that chain stores reported strong sales gains during January had no market impact. But analysts said they were somewhat encouraged by the report.
"The comparison is against an extremely weak period a year ago," said Steven A. Wood, director of financial markets research at the Bank of America, "but chain store sales look to be on a good upward trend. These are the glimmers of hope that people in the White House and the Fed are looking for."
Another whiff of recovery appeared later in the day, when the Federal Reserve Board reported that all three measures of the nation's money supply posted big increases during the week ended Jan. 27.
 
M-2 Up $9.6 Billion
 The Fed reported that M-2, the monetary aggregate it follows most closely, grew by $9.6 billion in the week. That increase pushed growth in the aggregate to 4.9 percent over its fourth-quarter base, above the midpoint of the Fed's target growth range of 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent. Last year, M-2 expanded at an extremely sluggish 2.7 percent rate.
"Money is growing stronger than was generally expected," said Paul L. Kasriel, a vice president and monetary economist at the Northern Trust Company in Chicago. "That is a very good sign for economic activity ahead."
While fourth-quarter cuts in interest rates engineered by the Fed have played a significant role in the speed-up in money growth recently, a slowdown in the closing of failed savings and loans and commercial banks by the Resolution Trust Corporation and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation have also been important, Mr. Kasriel said.
"These activities have a negative effect on money growth," he said, "because when banks are closed, deposits disappear. At some point, they will get back in the game again. That's why we could very well have a rerun of 1991 this year, with a pickup in economic activity during the first half of the year and then some slowing later on, when the R.T.C. and the F.D.I.C. get back into action."
 
30-Year Bond at 102 22/32
 Prices of Treasury securities were down before the Fed released the money supply figures, and further declines were recorded after traders saw the numbers.
By late in the day the Treasury's 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered at a price of 10222/32 , down 14/32 , to yield 7.76 percent, compared with 7.72 percent late Wednesday.
Among Treasury note issues, the 7.50 percent 10-year notes were offered at 10131/32 , down 10/32 , to yield 7.21 percent. The 6 1/4 percent five-year notes were offered at 99 3/8, down 5/32 , to yield 6.39 percent. And the 4 7/8 percent two-year notes were offered at 9922/32 , down 1/32 , to yield 5.04 percent.
Traders said there was good demand at an auction of new one-year Treasury bills.
Bids at the auction produced an average discount rate of 4.01 percent, up from the average rate of 3.84 percent at the last auction of one-year bills on Jan. 9.
 
Rates in Secondary Market
 In the secondary market for Treasury bills, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 3.80 percent late yesterday, down a basis point, or one-hundredth of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates were unchanged, at a late offered rate of 3.86 percent.
New-issue activity in the investment-grade corporate bond market was highlighted by a two-part $350 million offering of securities for the Commonwealth Edison Company.
One part consisted of $150 million worth of 7 percent five-year notes. These securities were priced at $100, or par, 60 basis points above the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 6 1/4 percent five-year notes at the time of pricing.
The remaining $200 million were sold as 8 5/8 percent 30-year bonds. The bonds, which are noncallable for 10 years, were priced at $99.05, to yield 8.714 percent, 95 basis points above the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021.
Salomon Brothers acted as lead manager for the underwriting. The securities are rated A-3 by Moody's Investors Service and A-minus by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
 
American Express Issue
 Lehman Brothers acted as lead manager on an offering of $200 million worth of seven-year securities for the American Express Credit Corporation.
The 7 3/8 percent notes were priced at $99.50, to yield 7.468 percent, 71 basis points above the Treasury's 6 3/8 percent seven-year notes at the time of pricing.
The issue is rated AA-3 by Moody's and AA-minus by Standard & Poor's.
Participants in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate securities said that prices of most issues dipped by 1/8 point to 1/4 point in slow trading.
In the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds, traders said that prices of most widely quoted issues were unchanged on the day.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of one-year Treasury bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 95.945
Discounted Rate . . . 4.01%
Coupon Yield . . . 4.21%
High Price . . . 95.945
Discounted Rate . . . 4.01%
Coupon Yield . . . 4.21%
Low Price . . . 95.935
Discounted Rate . . . 4.02%
Coupon Yield . . . 4.22%
Accepted at low price . . . 13%
Total applied for . . . $36,319,880
Accepted . . . $12,205,040
N.Y. applied for . . . $38,621,420
N.Y. accepted . . . $12,861,175
Noncompetitive . . . $698,145
 
The one-year bills mature Feb.11, 1993.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows the average weekly yields fir 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent from Oct. '91-Feb. '92. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (83%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (61%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (61%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT NORTHERN TRUST CORP (83%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (61%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); CREDIT TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONEY SUPPLY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); BONDS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); BANK FAILURES (71%); SAVINGS & LOANS (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (66%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



249 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Big Owens-Corning Charge Sends Its Shares Surging

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
The Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation said yesterday that it took an $800 million charge against earnings in the last quarter to cover uninsured asbestos liabilities through the end of the decade.
Wall Street welcomed the move as a belated response to investors' desires for a clearer accounting of how the company expects to be affected by the tens of thousands of asbestos lawsuits it faces, and Owens-Corning's stock surged, closing up $7.75, or nearly 27 percent, and reaching $37 a share before ending at $36.625 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 The jump in the stock price came even though operating earnings for the quarter fell below analysts' expectations and, after charges, the company posted a loss for the quarter.
The huge asbestos write-off represented one of the first decisions of Glen H. Hiner, who took over last month as chief executive at company headquarters in Toledo, Ohio. In the past, Owens-Corning reported asbestos expenses as they were incurred.
Mr. Hiner said that a new approach to handling asbestos cases, bringing most of the legal work inside the company, is expected to cut litigation costs to $50 million a year, from $150 million.
In addition to its asbestos charge, Owens-Corning took a one-time charge of $227 million to comply with new accounting standards being imposed on all major corporations by 1993 to cover future retiree benefits, primarily medical expenses.
After all of the special charges, the company lost $529 million in the quarter, compared with a loss of $33 million in the fourth quarter a year ago. Revenue for the quarter was $687 million, down 9.4 percent from $758 million a year ago.
Owens-Corning said that it had operating earnings of $3 million, or 7 cents a share, in the last quarter, compared with $18 million, or 42 cents a share, for the fourth quarter of 1990. About $14 million of the decline, or 33 cents a share, was attributable to an accounting change that increased estimated taxes payable on overseas earnings.
"I was encouraged that our operating margins went up in the fourth quarter," Mr. Hiner said. "I don't see any extraordinary charges going forward. Now we can be judged on operating income and my goal is to improve it each quarter in 1992 and 1993."
Most of the company's income comes from the automotive and construction sectors, both of which have been hard hit by the recession.
For the year, Owens-Corning lost $742 million, compared with a profit of $73 million, or $1.73 a share, in 1990. Revenues in 1991 declined 9.3 percent, to slightly more than $2.78 billion, from nearly $3.07 billion in 1990.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OC (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423330 ROOFING, SIDING & INSULATION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS327993 MINERAL WOOL MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS324122 ASPHALT SHINGLE & COATING MATERIALS MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3296 MINERAL WOOL (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (70%); 

CITY: TOLEDO, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: OWENS-CORNING FIBERGLAS CORP OWENS CORNING (98%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: OWENS-CORNING FIBERGLAS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); OHIO, USA (70%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: ASBESTOS; COMPANY REPORTS; STOCKS (CORPORATE); STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME TOXIC TORTS (90%); ASBESTOS (90%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); LITIGATION (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J GLEN H HINER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



250 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Tradition of Giving To the Neediest Is Continued

BYLINE: By J. PEDER ZANE

 BODY:
The bright and the eager who flock each year to Wall Street's equivalent of boot camp, the analysts program, inherit two traditions: 80-hour workweeks and an annual campaign to benefit The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
The analysts understand the necessity of hard work during their two-year stints. It is the time-honored way of identifying the movers and the shakers amid the cum laudes and the Phi Beta Kappas. But they are less certain about the origins of their connection with the Neediest Cases. 
 "We know it started seven years ago," said Nicholas N. Golding, an analyst at Salomon Brothers. "We don't know who started it, or why they picked the Neediest Cases. But the tradition continues because each year that the new arrivals are asked to contribute, they ask about the fund, learn about the good work it does and decide to support it."
That support translated into impressive numbers. A total of 759 analysts from 14 firms made contributions. Their donations ranged from $5 to $5,000 and together they totaled $95,818.39, said Mr. Golding who coordinated the effort with two of his Salomon co-workers, Craig A. Larson and Suzette M. Fandino.
"We're very, very pleased, especially given the state of the economy," Ms. Fandino said. "Working so hard it's easy to get wrapped up in yourself, but it also makes people eager to reach out to others if they're shown how they can help."
Since it was founded in 1912 by Adolph S. Ochs, who was then the publisher of The Times, the Neediest Cases Fund has enabled millions of people to find that best part of themselves and lend a helping hand to New York's sick, poor and disabled. So far, a record $4.6 million has been raised from more than 15,000 donations.
The newspaper covers all of the campaign's overhead so that every dollar collected is passed on to seven charities. The money buys food for the hungry, homes for the homeless and clothing for those without. It also helps Holocaust survivors, mentally ill substance abusers and people with AIDS.
Mr. Golding, who is in the second year in the analysts program at Salomon Brothers, began organizing the campaign in early December by recruiting Ms. Fandino, who is also in her second year in the program, and Mr. Larson, who is in his first year and plans to run next year's campaign.
They developed contacts at the 13 other firms and regularly checked in with their liaisons to inspire and cajole them.
"It wasn't a hard sell because the fund is very worthwhile," Mr. Larson said. "They especially liked the fact that none of the money goes to overhead so they get more bang for their buck. They liked that."
The 14 firms that participated in this years drive were: Bear, Stearns & Company; the Blackstone Group; Dillon, Read & Company; the Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corporation; the First Boston Corporation; Goldman Sachs & Company; Kidder, Peabody & Company; Lehman Brothers; Merrill Lynch Capital Markets; Morgan Stanley & Company; Oppenheimer & Company; Paine Webber; Prudential-Bache-Securities, and Salomon Brothers.
 
Previously recorded . . . $4,642,950.76
Recorded yesterday . . . 5,977.00
Total . . . $4,648,927.76

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CRAIG A WEST (55%); PHI BETA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHI BETA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND; STOCKS AND BONDS WORK WEEK (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BONDS (73%); FOOD CHARITIES (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); HOLOCAUST (62%); MENTAL ILLNESS (62%); HOMELESSNESS (60%); 

PERSON: ZANE, J PEDER MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



251 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Factory Orders Off 3.8% in December

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6

 BODY:
The Government reported today that factory orders were sharply lower in December and jobless claims were steady in late January.
Orders for durable and nondurable goods plunged 3.8 percent in December, contributing to the steepest annual decline since the previous recession nine years ago, the Commerce Department said. 
 "The sharp decline reinforces the expectation that a broad-based improvement in the economy is not under way and not likely to begin until spring," said Larry Meyer, head of Laurence H. Meyer & Associates, a St. Louis-based economic forecasting service.
In a second report that analysts said provides more evidence of a stagnant economy, the Labor Department reported little improvement in the number of initial claims for jobless insurance in late January.
 
Indicates Little Spending
 "It suggests that we really have a very, very weak employment situation," said Gilbert Benz, an economist at the Swiss Bank Corporation of New York. "It suggests very little income growth and very little spending," both of which are needed to lift the economy.
The Commerce Department said factory orders were slashed by 2.6 percent last year, to $2.8 trillion. It was the largest decline since a 3.5 percent plunge in the recession year of 1982 and the first decrease since a three-tenths of 1 percent drop in 1986.
Orders for both durable goods, costly items expected to last three years or more, and for nondurable goods suffered annual declines. The manufacturing sector had shown signs of recovery at midyear but then faltered during the fall.
In December, orders totaled a seasonally adjusted $233.8 billion, down from $243.1 billion a month earlier. The 3.8 percent drop was the steepest since orders sank 6.2 percent in November 1990.
Even the six-tenths of 1 percent advance initially recorded for November 1991 was revised downward in the newest report to four-tenths of 1 percent.
Factory orders are a gauge of manufacturing industry plans. Continuing declines could mean lower production and loss of jobs in a sector representing nearly 25 percent of the nation's economic activity.
Analysts also noted that businesses cut their orders for nonmilitary capital goods, often a barometer of plans to expand and modernize. Excluding aircraft, these orders fell 1 percent in December.
The Labor Department report said 450,000 people filed new claims for jobless insurance in the week ending Jan. 25, down from a revised 460,000 a week earlier.
But because of weekly volatility, many analysts look more to a four-week moving average, which showed claims holding in a 432,000 to 439,000 range. Mr. Meyer said that would reflect an unemployment rate of 7 percent to 7.25 percent.
 
Jobless Rate Report Due
 The department will release January's jobless rate on Friday. It stood at 7.1 percent in December, the highest since June 1986.
Orders for durable goods tumbled 5.2 percent in December, even further than the initial 5 percent estimate reported last week. These orders had edged up six-tenths of 1 percent in November.
Some analysts suggested the weakness in the durable goods sector might have been made worse by businesses postponing purchases to take advantage of an expected investment tax credit request in President Bush's State of the Union Message on Jan. 28.
Mr. Bush proposed a 15 percent first-year credit for equipment purchased after Feb. 1 and before Jan. 1, 1993.
 
Big Drop in Transportation
 The largest decrease was in the transportation category, which posted a 14 percent drop. All areas participated in the decline except for shipbuilding and tanks. Excluding the transportation category, orders were off 2.2 percent.
The often-volatile orders for military goods jumped 86 percent after plummeting 38 percent a month earlier. Excluding this category, orders fell 5.8 percent.
Orders for nondurable goods, like clothing and chemicals, fell 2.4 percent after edging up two-tenths of 1 percent in November.
Shipments of factory orders, a gauge of current production, declined 3.4 percent, the first drop since last March. Still, shipments for the year were down 1.9 percent, the biggest decline since 1982.
Unfilled orders, a barometer of how busy industry will be in coming months, slipped five-tenths of 1 percent in December, the fourth straight decline. These orders were at their lowest level since October 1989. For the year, they fell 3.1 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Factory Orders" shows manufacturers' total new orders, in billions of dollars from July '90-Dec. '91. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT SWISS BANK CORP (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); FACTORY ORDERS (94%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



252 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1572 words

HEADLINE: The Art Market

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel

 BODY:

New Light for Photography
Photography is gaining new respect in the New York museum world. This week, the Metropolitan Museum of Art announced the formation of a separate photography department headed by Dr. Maria Morris Hambourg, who has been an associate curator in the department of prints and photographs since 1985.This is the first department to be created at the museum since the opening of the Robert Lehman Collection of Old Masters in 1975.
Meanwhile, the Whitney Museum of American Art has said it will begin aquiring photographs for its permanent collection. 
 Photographs had always been part of the print department at the Metropolitan, but Philippe de Montebello, the museum's director, said, "This is such an important and growing field we felt it was better served with its own set of programs, publications and exhibitions."
The Metropolitan's photography collection is significantly smaller and less diverse than collections at such institutions as the Museum of Modern Art, the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, Calif., George Eastman House in Rochester and the Art Institute of Chicago. The Met's holdings number about 15,000 photographs and include two important collections.
The first comprises about 450 works by Alfred Stieglitz and his contemporaries, which Stieglitz donated to the museum in 1933. The second is a group of 500 photographs by 180 American and European artists active between the two World Wars, which was donated to the museum in 1987 as a joint gift by the New York collector John C. Waddell and the Ford Motor Company.
The museum is "currently working hard on filling in the collection with photographs from the 1950's to the present," said Dr. Hambourg.
"For example," she said, "we are trying to acquire works from the 1970's in the Conceptual field."
Dr. Hambourg is also planning two major Metropolitan exhibitions for 1993. In the spring, there will be a show of the Gilman Paper Company Collection, which includes about 275 images acquired over the last 15 years by Howard Gilman, chairman of the Georgia-based paper concern, and his curator, Pierre Apraxine.
"The collection has set the standard for connoisseurship and collecting," Dr. Hambourg said. "It will cover the first century of photography, 1839 to 1939."
The second show, for the fall of 1993, is an exhibition of works by the 19th-century French portraitist Felix Nadar that is being co-organized with the Musee d'Orsay in Paris.
Unlike the Met, the Whitney has no significant photography collection, nor does it plan to form a separate department for photography. Sondra Gilman Gonzalez-Falla, who has headed the Whitney's paintings and sculpture committee for the last 10 years, will now be responsible for the photography-acquisitions committee.
David A. Ross, the Whitney's director, said the decision to start the acquisitions program was a result of photography's growing popularity with the museum's membership. "It's also an area I felt strongly needed to be developed," he added.
 
Application Denied
 Franklin Furnace Archive, the avant-garde space in TriBeCa that helped launch such performing artists as Karen Finley and Eric Bogosian and was the first showcase for Jenny Holzer and other multi-media artists, has been denied a $25,000 grant from the National Endowment for the Arts for its planned visual-arts program. The grant was one of two that made the final round but were refused last week; the other was a $5,000 request from Highways, a Los Angeles gallery, which submitted homoerotic photographs as part of its grant application.
Martha Wilson, the director of Franklin Furnace, said the decision was prompted by the submission of a sexually explicit video as part of the grant application.
"It's a sign of a deep layer of conservatism at work," said Ms. Wilson in a recent interview. The institution has received support from the N.E.A. for 16 years. In the last five years, endowment grants have ranged from $20,000 to $50,000. For the 1991-92 season, for example, Franklin Furnace was given $40,000. "This recent denial of funds could be a major threat to its future," Ms. Wilson said.
The process of awarding grants is a long and arduous one. First, applications are reviewed by a peer panel, an ad hoc group of people in the art world invited by the endowment to read applications in their fields and make recommendations. The recommendations are reviewed by another panel made up of the endowment's staff. The final vote then goes to the National Advisory Council, a group of representatives from the art world selected by the N.E.A.
Renny Pritikin, director of New Langton Arts, an exhibition space in San Francisco, headed the peer panel that recommended the Franklin Furnace application for final approval. Mr. Pritikin wrote a letter protesting the council's 17-to-1 vote. "It's like defunding the Met because you don't like one painting in one show," he said in a telephone interview. "Franklin Furnace is one of the most established places, and the N.E.A. should have had respect for them as an institution and not made a decision based on viewing only part of one video."
What the members of the council saw was 15 minutes of a 70-minute tape of the performance artist Scarlet O. In the tape, titled "Appearances Can Be Deceiving," Scarlet O is first dressed like a man and talks about exploring her sexual personae. Later she is wearing a short, slinky nylon dress, spike heels and a spiky black wig. Then she disrobes.
Wendy Luers, the president of Charter 77 Foundation, New York, a public philanthropic organization, is one of the council members who voted against the grant. "I'm a champion of the avant-garde and respond to what's going on sexually today," she said, "but the tape had no artistic merit. Had it been someone's work like Mapplethorpe I would have been bleeding down the table to support it because it would have been artistically significant. If Martha chose to submit that video she did it for a reason. And I had no choice other than to vote against it."
Ms. Wilson said that the tape was not meant to shock. "I don't believe there's such a thing called obscene art," she said. "This happens to be about sexuality, and sex is the oldest subject in art there is. It's crucial to show experimental works by artists such as Scarlet O. This artist is good. Even if she's perceived as bad, that's O.K. The N.E.A. used to be supportive of experimental art."
Responding to allegations by Ms. Wilson and other people in the art world who said they felt the decision was unfair, John E. Frohnmayer, chairman of the endowment, said in a telephone interview the other day that the decision did not represent a more conservative attitude toward endowment grants.
"The main issue here was that the council took responsibility for making artistic judgments," Mr. Frohnmayer said. He added that competition for financing had gotten stiffer: not only have the number of qualified applicants increased, but so have the dollar amounts of the applications. Of the 18,000 applicants for arts grants the endowment received this year, only 4,000 were awarded grants, he said.
"Franklin Furnace's reputation is well known," Mr. Frohnmayer said. "But in this instance what they submitted simply didn't make the grade."
 
Art Newspaper or Journal?
 Subscribers to The Journal of Art have just received a surprise in the mail. Instead of getting the Rizzoli-owned publication, which folded after the December issue, they have gotten The Art Newspaper, a two-year-old British publication with about 5,000 paid subscribers. But in a red box at The Art Newspaper's top right corner is the old Journal of Art logo.
Umberto Allemandi, the publisher and owner of The Art Newspaper, has bought The Journal of Art's title and subscription list from Rizzoli for about $250,000. Subscribers, therefore, will automatically receive The Art Newspaper unless they exercise their option to ask for their money back.
Mr. Allemandi founded The Journal of Art four years ago with the art historian Barbara Rose. But after 10 issues, Ms. Rose bought out his share of the journal, which stopped publishing in June 1989.
In 1990, Rizzoli became the major shareholder of The Journal of Art and resurrected the monthly. Ms. Rose, a partial shareholder, was its editor in chief. Rizzoli published The Journal of Art until the day before Thanksgiving, when it abruptly dismissed the staff and announced it would cease publication. The reason: the poor economic conditions in publishing right now. Ms. Rose announced a short time later that she was suing Rizzoli for not honoring her contract. But Gianfranco Monacelli, the president and chief executive officer of Rizzoli International Publications, said: "There are no suits pending. Rizzoli has honored all its commitments, including those to Ms. Rose."
The sale of The Journal of Art's title and subscription list to Umberto Allemandi & Company Publishing means the Americanization of the terribly British Art Newspaper. "Starting with the March issue we will be printing the United States copies in America," said Anna Somers Cocks, the editor of The Art Newspaper and Mr. Allemandi's wife. "We are also in the process of setting up an office in the United States and will have a core staff here." Eventually, The Art Newspaper will include a special section devoted to art news in the United States.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Detail of "Cathedral" (1852), by Henri le Secq, a recent donation to the Metropolitan Museum of Art's photography collection. (The Metropolitan Museum of Art)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC); WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (NYC) FORD MOTOR CO (84%); GILMAN PAPER CO (64%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (94%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (94%); ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (55%); ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC); WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (NYC) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (94%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (94%); ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (55%); ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (74%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); PAINTING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING (61%); PAPER MFG (61%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL; HAMBOURG, MARIA MORRIS (DR) MARIA MORRIS HAMBOURG (76%); FRANKLIN FURNACE (63%); MARTHA WILSON (63%); ALFRED STIEGLITZ (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



253 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Lufthansa Appoints Top American Official

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
Lufthansa announced yesterday that Frederick Reid had been appointed senior vice president for the Americas, making the 41-year-old San Francisco native the highest-ranking American in the recent history of the German airline and perhaps in its entire 60-year history.
The appointment is effective June 1, but Mr. Reid is essentially functioning in that role now. 
 That role, as it happens, is one of the troubled airline industry's prime hot seats. Mr. Reid is responsible for all of Lufthansa's ground and passenger operations in North and South America at the very time that the airline is threatening to pull out of the United States market.
Almost no American competitors believe the carrier -- Germany's national airline, serving almost 100 foreign countries -- will follow through on its threat, but they also expect additional storm clouds before the disagreements between Bonn and Washington are ironed out.
Those disagreements revolve around the air traffic pact between the United States and Germany, which dates to 1955, when Pan American World Airways and Trans World Airlines were the only American carriers serving Germany. Today, seven American carriers fly to Germany from 25 cities, while Lufthansa is limited to 12 American cities, two of which -- Washington and Charlotte, N.C. -- are under short-term exemptions granted independently of the bilateral trade agreement.
From 1980 to 1990, Lufthansa's share of the trans-Atlantic market vis-a-vis that of United States carriers fell to 39.8 percent from 49.9 percent, according to Air Transport World, a trade magazine.
Jurgen Weber, chairman and chief executive of Deutsche Lufthansa A.G., has publicly decried the fact that American airlines can fly from any city in the United States to any city in Germany and beyond, while Lufthansa is prohibited from flying beyond the 12 cities. He also accused Delta Air Lines, which recently acquired Pan Am's hub at Frankfurt, and other American carriers of trying to destroy competition over the North Atlantic by pricing fares below cost. The American carriers deny that assertion.
Mr. Reid was reluctant to get into that argument, beyond saying that if the current negotiations did not produce changes, "we would find our position in the U.S. untenable." He quickly added, however, that he fully expected the dispute to be resolved.
"Ten years from now, the airline industry of Europe will be vastly changed," Mr. Reid said, "and Lufthansa, with its hub and spoke system in what is the economic and geopolitical center of Europe, expects to be around to provide a counterweight to American mega-carriers."
Mr. Reid joined Lufthansa in November as an executive in its worldwide sales and marketing department. Previously, he was managing director of European sales at American Airlines in London. From 1976 to 1987, he held a variety of executive positions at Pan Am. Mr. Reid and his wife live in Frankfurt with their three children.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frederick Reid, Lufthansa (Lufthansa)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (98%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (98%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (98%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (76%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: LUFTHANSA GERMAN AIRLINES DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (98%); PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (91%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (74%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LUFTHANSA GERMAN AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (76%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES APPOINTMENTS (93%); AIRLINES (92%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); CITIES (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN; REID, FREDERICK FREDERICK REID (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



254 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 4; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Cartoons With a Political Conscience

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
If times seem tough, remember that Betty Boop was once homeless and Porky Pig nearly saw his father's farm go bust.
These sad events occurred during the early 1930's, the golden age of the socially conscious cartoon. Fourteen of them, some quite rare, will be shown tonight and tomorrow under the title "Cartoon Soup Kitchen," part of the Film Society of Lincoln Center's current program of films on the Depression. 
 The cartoon program has been organized by Greg Ford, who oversaw the weekly "Cartoonal Knowledge" series at the Thalia theater in the late 1970's and early 80's, and more recently has directed such Warner Brothers cartoons as "The Ducksorcist" and "Night of the Living Duck," both starring Daffy.
"I'm emphasizing what people have forgotten about 30's cartoons," said Mr. Ford, "which is the remarkable explicitness about social issues that people took for granted in their cartoons back then. It's a shock to see your favorite cartoon characters in bread lines."
 
Grim Visions
 In "Confidence" (1932), Oswald the Rabbit's thriving farm falls under the shadow of a cloaked, spectral figure, labeled "Depression," that rises out of an ash heap.
Betty Boop falls on hard times in "Betty Boop's Ups and Downs." The value of her house plummets and the chimney, grabbing wildly, can no longer hold all the parts together.
As the camera pulls back, it becomes clear that all the houses in the neighborhood are in similar straits. "It's a great image of real estate devaluation," Mr. Ford noted approvingly.
Another shot shows the entire United States with a For Sale sign hung out. Eventually the planet Saturn, spotting a bargain, buys the Earth.
Flip the Frog, created by Ub Iwerks, the original animator of Mickey Mouse, is reduced to panhandling and has to pawn his musical instruments. Walt Disney generally steered clear of social commentary, but he did produce "The Three Little Pigs," a cartoon that provided one of the signature songs of the era, "Who's Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf?"
 
Upbeat Endings
 Despite the surprisingly gritty realism of the cartoons -- in "The Flophouse," regiments of lice attack the residents -- most cartoons ended on an optimistic note. Oswald the Rabbit finds his way to the White House, where F. D. R. gives him a booster shot marked Confidence. Porky Pig wins big at the race track and returns to the farm in a limousine.
"Any skepticism toward government seems to be directed at the quick-fix idea," Mr. Ford said, citing "Prosperity Blues," a Krazy Kat cartoon in which a lunatic wearing a Napoleon hat marked N.R.A., for National Recovery Administration, runs around slapping N.R.A. signs on everything in sight.
But American optimism tended to win out. "The cartoons usually end in a frenzied musical number where America revives, usually to the tune of 'Happy Days' and 'We're in the Money,' " said Mr. Ford, who regards the suffering of his animated friends with something more than equanimity.
"It's entertaining to think of all the cartoon characters you know going through the Depression," he said.
"Cartoon Soup Kitchen" can be seen tonight at 9:30 and tomorrow at 2, 6:15, and 10:15 P.M. at the Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street. Admission is $7 ($5 for Film Society members). Information: (212) 875-5600.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (52%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: SATURN (68%); EARTH (53%); 

COMPANY: FILM SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER WALT DISNEY CO (52%); NATIONAL RECOVERY ADMINISTRATION (71%); FILM SOCIETY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FILM SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER NATIONAL RECOVERY ADMINISTRATION (71%); FILM SOCIETY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SATURN (68%); EARTH (53%); 

SUBJECT: CARTOONS AND CARTOONISTS; GREAT DEPRESSION (1930'S); UNITED STATES ECONOMY GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); ANIMATION (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (73%); PANHANDLING (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); HOME PRICES (64%); MUSIC (61%); THEATER (56%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM BETTY BOOP (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



255 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Dollar Is Mostly Lower; Prices for Gold Are Mixed

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar settled mostly lower in quiet trading on world currency markets yesterday as traders assessed the outlook for interest rates.
Gold prices were mixed. On the Commodity Exchange in New York gold bullion for current delivery settled at $355.70 an ounce, up 10 cents. The Republic National Bank said gold slipped 15 cents an ounce, to a late price of $355.30. 
 Among the factors that depressed the dollar were comments by Germany's Bundesbank president, Helmut Schlesinger, defending the relatively strong mark. He said his country's monetary policy would not be loosened.
 
White House Adviser Comments
 In addition, President Bush's chief economic adviser, Michael Boskin, told Congress that the Federal Reserve had room to lower interest rates to stimulate the economy without stirring inflation.
"Trading focused on interest-rate differentials," said Michael Malpede, an analyst with Refco Inc. in Chicago. As interest rates remain high overseas relative to United States rates, which many say are poised to go lower, there is less incentive for investors to shift money into dollar-denominated, fixed-income securities.
There was little reaction to a Government report showing that December factory orders fell 3.8 percent, the first decline in three months and the steepest in more than a year.
"The general opinion is that we have seen the worst in the numbers," Mr. Malpede said.
Instead, traders are eagerly awaiting today's release of unemployment data for January. The dollar's direction "will depend on what this report means for interest rates and whether the Fed is prepared to act if the numbers are weak," Mr. Malpede said.
Many market observers believe, however, that the Fed will wait till the end of the first quarter before trimming rates again. The central bank needs time to assess the impact of the substantial rate cuts it made in December.
In Tokyo the dollar fell to a closing 125.40 Japanese yen, from 126.11 yen at Wednesday's close. But in London it rose to 125.68 yen. In New York the dollar settled at 125.65 yen, up from 125.56 yen on Wednesday.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.8200, from $1.8060 late Wednesday. In New York it cost $1.8215 to buy 1, more expensive than Wednesday's $1.8150.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (69%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (69%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

COMPANY: REFCO INC (69%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); BRITISH POUND (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (66%); FACTORY ORDERS (51%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



256 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE THAW;
'Lead by Example'

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
"The new world order in the next two years will feature two developments that are now being played out in Europe - increased national sentiment among countr4ies in the East, and increased emphasis on political and economic integration among countries in the West.
 "In the international arena, nationalism can prove to be destructive in the long run. Given that, the United States should work to curb the excesses of nationalism by promoting forms that buttress the mutual cooperation of nations. I think you can become a powerful giant if you lead by example. We're having severe problems with population growth in the world. The United States could step up and say: 'We recognize this. Here's what we should do.'
 "I also have in mind the creation of some international economic policy whereby various countries would reach agreement on economic strategies that would maximize stability and growth in all nations. Our economies are so interdependent it's no longer possible for amodern nation to take steps to confront account economic policies in other countries.
 "There is also a need to reach agreement on international solutions to such issues as the massive and growing immigration of citizens frompoor to rich nations and the growing gap between rich and improverished nations. The United States could in m any ways try to strengthen the United Nations so it could adequately address these problems. It would be a serious mistake to return to isolationism cloaked in nationalist sentiment."

GRAPHIC: Photo: William Julius Wilson, Professor of sociology and public policy at the University of Chicago. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (59%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS POPULATION GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); IMMIGRATION (72%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY; WILSON, WILLIAM JULIUS (PROF) MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



257 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: Where Entertainment Industry Is Leading Us

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Obscenity Laws Exist, but What Breaks Them?" (The Week in Review, Jan. 19), on the difficulty of obtaining obscenity convictions, is all too accurate. Either we give up on obscenity control, or we get a new ruling from a more conservative Supreme Court. 
 The outrageously irresponsible entertainment industry, shielded by the American Civil Liberties Union, is primarily to blame for the increasing degradation of our popular culture. Its shamelessness is one of the most depressing phenomena of our day with consequences apparent on all sides. The entertainment industry does more to shape the moral values of our youth and the future of our nation than most people ever dream.
But when this is discussed, cries of "censorship" and "Puritanism" are brandished like clubs to intimidate critics of industry excesses. If you don't like something, don't watch or listen. End of discussion.
Are all legal restraints forbidden by the First Amendment?
That amendment was intended to protect serious discourse dealing with political, economic, social and religious issues. That's what a democracy requires, not the anything goes spirit of the entertainment world. The Founding Fathers never intended this amendment to cover the kind of licentiousness that now claims constitutional protection. Furthermore, the Supreme Court has long excluded marginal aspects of free speech and press from First Amendment protection, such as incitement to violence or picketing in a context of violence, fraudulent advertising, contempt of court and perjury. Obscene entertainment belongs in the category of unprotected expression.
One can hope a more conservative Court will redefine obscenity in a way that makes sensible restraints more feasible. But Court rulings aren't as important as a citizenry aware of entertainment's impact and willing to exert pressures to curb its libertinism.
 
REO M. CHRISTENSON
Visiting Professor, Political Science
Miami University
Oxford, Ohio, Jan. 23, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (ACLU) AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (90%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (ACLU) AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (90%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY; ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; MOTION PICTURES; FREEDOM OF SPEECH; FIRST AMENDMENT (US CONSTITUTION); SEX CRIMES OBSCENITY (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CENSORSHIP (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); POLITICS (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); RELIGION (52%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTENSON, REO M CHRISTIAN PIERRET (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



258 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
1932 and 1992

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB

 BODY:
Nineteen ninety-two could be as seminal a political year as 1932. Perhaps more than the Presidential hopefuls realize, Americans fear the future and are open to profound change -- far more than in pivotal election years like 1960 and 1980. The candidate who catches and defines today's shapeless and plastic anxieties could harness a force as strong as the one that carried Franklin Roosevelt to the White House 60 years ago.
"Something weird is going on out there -- fear, anger, ugliness," said Roger Ailes, a Republican strategist. 
 "It's an explosive year," warned Peter Hart, a Democratic consultant.
"This election is about defining the future of America," reflected Douglas Bailey, publisher of Hotline, a daily political report.
The mood runs against the essentially status quo policies of President Bush -- even if the recession ends statistically by the summer. Republican leaders privately admit as much and worry that the President is grossly out of touch.
The mood favors Democrats who show they understand the fears and exude confidence about curing them. Democratic gurus fret about their candidates, but sense the kill and the enormous plasticity of the moment.
Yes, 1992 is not 1932. Recession is not depression. But expectations were low 60 years ago; and they have been sky-high since 1945. It does not take nearly as much today to depress a middle class long pampered by success. And 1992 is not 1960 or 1980 when voters were merely interested in "change" or "new leadership."
The historian Arnold Toynbee wrote of the early 1930's that "Men and women all over the world were seriously contemplating and frankly discussing the possibility that the Western system of Society might break down and cease to work." Similar rumblings can be detected now.
As with 1932, 1992 marks the end of an era. The cold war, the central organizing principle of American politics, has disappeared. Nothing can fill that void. Gone also is the central article of post-war faith that children would surpass their parents. Key industries and jobs that powered growth have disappeared under the waves, forever. Germany and Japan rise again, posing complicated threats.
Now as 60 years ago, intellectual and political categories have broken down. It is hard to locate right and left on the spectrum. Hawks and doves are merely birds once again. Voters cannot get their bearings.
Today as then, there is a loss of political inhibition, a willingness to think the unthinkable, as Leon Wieseltier of The New Republic suggested to me. David Duke can become a serious candidate for Governor of Louisiana. Shades of Huey Long. In frustration over lawmakers, momentum gathers to set term limits for elected officials and legislate policy by referendums. Senator Pat Moynihan laments "the savage prospect" of states legislating no help for new children born to mothers on welfare. "Can you imagine that?" he asks. The previously unimaginable now can become law, for good and ill.
Public opinion soundings begin to echo that volatility. A CNN/USA Today survey in January showed an astonishing 55 percent of Americans saying that the economy needs a "complete overhaul." In a Times/CBS News poll from last August on health care, 50 percent said the system required "fundamental changes," and 40 percent said it had to be "completely rebuilt."
The Democratic challengers have not tapped deeply enough into these rumblings. They all call for "fundamental change" or "reinventing government" or some such, and even offer far-reaching specific proposals. But they have not quite found the right words and seem to shy away from galloping with the full logic of their own proposals for change.
Franklin Roosevelt, too, exercised caution throughout the 1932 campaign. But he left no doubt that he understood the horror of the Depression, no doubt about his revolutionary plans to inject the Federal Government into economic planning, no doubt of his commitment to bold and humane experimentation.
Now as then, Americans do not expect their Presidents to have all the answers. But Americans want to be sure their next President is talking about the right problems, appreciates their despair and is committed to doing something, everything, to make their lives better.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KEY INDUSTRIES INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; VOTER BEHAVIOR; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1932 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CHILDREN (85%); COLD WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HISTORY (76%); TERM LIMITS (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (68%); 

PERSON: GELB, LESLIE H GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ROGER AILES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



259 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
The California Story

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
Somewhere in this state, somewhere between the Mexican and Canadian borders, there must be Californians so interested in how the New Hampshire primary will go that it will influence their own thinking or voting.
There must be. The press, TV and politicians keep hammering it into our heads that New Hampshire voting is hugely important and will affect the nation, so pay paralyzed attention. 
 The only thing is, in a week of poking around I have not found a single Californian who is waiting for a cue from New Hampshire -- or anybody who knows such a person.
I found only people who feel that the voters of the most powerful state are fully qualified to choose among Democrats and between Democrat Whoever and President Bush without guidance from one of the smallest states.
Long-time, very long-time, Republicans told me that whatever happens in New Hampshire or any place else, election day will be tight for Mr. Bush in California. They know things are worse in California than in 1988, when he managed to win the state with a 3 percent majority. And they have a strong hunch that given the quizzical way the country looks at Mr. Bush right now, he could not win without this state's electoral votes.
You do not have to be a psychiatrist, just a listener, to discover that some Republicans are not yet putting their full muscle into the campaign. They feel Mr. Bush has been neither ideologically loyal nor polite enough to Ronald Reagan, their hero now and forever.
So Mr. Bush obviously will have to hustle to win in California -- hustle not just for the votes of that middle class everybody loves, but for the money, energy and shove of some of the upper class Californians who may not be as huggable politically anymore, but helped put the President where he is.
As for Democrats, including some leaning to Gov. Bill Clinton, they look at the list of candidates and can't quite believe that's all there is and that is all there is going to be. At every dinner, Democrats make lists of possible added starters. There are no new ones -- just the familiar few Senators (Bentsen, Gore, Bradley) and the one Cuomo. Talk goes on through the evening -- will one of them jump in and deliver the election victory Democrats can almost smell cooking in the oven but are not yet sure Governor Clinton can put on the plate.
Anyway, I am glad I am not a foreign correspondent in the U.S., say from Japan. Imagine trying to explain to readers in Hokkaido what New Hampshire is all about. For instance, why are 125,000 people, the number of Democrats who will vote in the primary and who would fit into Universal Studios tour buses on a good weekend, so important that they have to be interviewed by the press one by one?
How do you explain to Japanese why it should matter in the Napa Valley exactly how many votes are won in New Hampshire by a right-wing columnist with a thing against Zulus?
Statistically it seems strange that anybody thinks that Californians, who after all are smart enough to live in California, would be stupid enough to accept this New Hampshire hype.
In the arithmetic of politics, the opinions of California are more than 13 times as important as those of New Hampshire. California has 54 out of the country's 538 votes in the Electoral College compared to New Hampshire's 4. On election day that is the one, the only bottom line.
Talk about voting power as it ought to be counted, and California is 30 times as important. It has that many times the number of New Hampshire's million-odd.
If troubles are how attention should be judged, California has a variety as full as any state -- unemployment, smog, water feuds, migrant labor, welfare, crime, drugs. And it has an American reality not to be found in 98-percent-white New Hampshire -- burgeoning minorities demanding center stage.
And with all due homage to New Hampshire, California not only has more problems, it has a lot more artists, writers, scientists, engineers and other creators. If California does not move ahead, the chances are the rest of us, including New Hampshire, won't either.
So California is not waiting for New Hampshire to show the way, nor is any other state. That's the lead of the story, in Japanese or in English.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (90%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (51%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW HAMPSHIRE; CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (90%); JAPAN (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (51%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



260 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Bush on Health: Smart, Gutless

 BODY:
The health care plan President Bush presented yesterday in Cleveland strides in the right direction. It outlines creative ways to insure all poor families in the nation, promote group coverage and strip away legal obstacles to an efficient system of managed care. The plan also sets forth a vision of how costs could be controlled.
Yet this plan won't work. At decisive junctures, Mr. Bush cowers. He would cover the poor, but nearly strand the near-poor. He calls for consumers to choose cost-conscious insurance policies, but backs away from the single step that would make that happen. And he would encourage small firms to form large insurance pools, but fails to force their participation. 
 These are serious, but remediable flaws. With a few bold strokes, Congress could preserve the vision and correct the errors. The end product might not be ideal, but it would insure that no American need fear bankruptcy just because of illness.
Key elements of the plan include:
Coverage of the poor. Any poor family needing care would be automatically enrolled in an insurance plan. Families below the poverty line would qualify for a voucher worth up to $3,750 a year. States would be required to make available comprehensive insurance for that amount.
Unfortunately, the credit would be phased out too steeply. Even though the plan would also provide a new deduction for medical costs, near-poor families would still be strapped to pay their bills.
Cost control: The Bush plan can't control costs unless employees are pressed to choose low-cost plans among options provided by employers. But the White House backed down from the one measure that would work: limiting tax deductions for insurance premiums so that workers would be compelled to shop wisely. This is the plan's fatal flaw. Mr. Bush could have used the tax savings to pay for his $100 billion plan; instead, he made no firm financing proposal. Unless he summons the courage -- presumably after elections -- to cap tax-deductible insurance premiums, his plan crumbles.
Small-business insurance pools: Small firms have a strong incentive to hire only healthy workers to avoid high insurance costs. Mr. Bush would wisely encourage small employers to band together to buy insurance, but his proposal lacks bite. Small firms that go it alone shouldn't be allowed to write off insurance premiums from taxes.
Protecting the chronically ill: The Bush plan would forbid insurers from shunning the sickest people. But enforcing such regulations is notoriously difficult. The plan would cleverly overcome resistance, by requiring insurers who enroll individuals likely to be healthy -- say, young non-smokers -- to pay a small tax that would be used to compensate insurers who enroll individuals likely to become chronically ill, like the elderly.
Encouraging managed care: Mr. Bush accepts the idea that managed-care plans, run by sophisticated buyers, are best able to control costs and monitor quality. He wisely proposes to pre-empt state laws that stymie managed care. He would also provide financial incentives for the elderly to join health maintenance organizations and for the states to set up cost-effective H.M.O.'s for their Medicaid population.
It's easy to pick out flaws. The plan doesn't cover long-term care or adequately adjust vouchers for inflation or regional differences in costs. But the overarching vision is right: protect the poor and encourage cost-effective managed care. What's needed now is the guts to enforce the vision.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES; HEALTH INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (78%); BUSINESS OWNERS INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); TAX LAW (74%); SMOKING (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (66%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



261 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut's Inescapable Pain

 BODY:
Gov. Lowell Weicker's new budget for Connecticut spreads harsh reality with a sharp knife. He offers a plan for real reductions in almost every category of state spending, remarkably free of fictitious savings. Some of his proposals cut too abruptly -- school aid, for example. But given the circumstances, his overall focus on cutting back is the only reasonable option.
After last year's bruising battle over the adoption of the state's new income tax, Mr. Weicker couldn't even contemplate proposing more taxes. Indeed, the issue is still so fractious that he even ignored sensible suggestions to make the income tax more palatable to middle-income taxpayers by adopting a fairer rate structure. 
 As a political independent, with no troops in the Legislature, Mr. Weicker plays a middle game -- successfully, so far. Democrats, who hold the majority in both houses, helped him get the income tax. This year he's banking on Republican support.
He has budgeted $8.1 billion. That's $400 million more than this year's spending, but the increase only mirrors the rising costs of such things as Medicaid and state employees' fringe benefits.
Another $800 million would have been needed to maintain all state programs at current levels; instead, he would cut almost all of them. Among his major targets: school aid, nursing homes, welfare, state employee benefits and the state payroll.
Commendably, he also proposes sensible reforms. He wants to repeal some statutes that mandate local outlays, particularly relating to municipal employees' pay and other compensation. And in cutting welfare payments, he proposes requirements that single adults seek work and that parents keep their children in school.
But his school aid cuts are a mixed bag; while there's more aid for large urban systems, some of the smaller, albeit wealthier, towns lose virtually all state funding in one devastating swoop.
As Mr. Weicker points out, Connecticut let the good times roll too far in the 1980's. Now the state is suffering from the particular severity of the recession in the Northeast, and from a disproportionate concentration of defense contractors -- United Technologies, Electric Boat and others -- whose booming business has shrunk with the ending of the cold war.
For Mr. Weicker -- and the Legislature -- there is no painless way out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (52%); MEDICAID (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; TAXATION; WELFARE (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); MEDICAID (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); CHILDREN (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); NURSING HOMES (66%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: WEICKER, LOWELL P JR (GOV) LOWELL PALMER WEICKER JR (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



262 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Pittsburgh Journal;
Horror Is a Thing Of Beauty In a Movie

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, Feb. 3

 BODY:
Few legitimate industries can find their roots in horror and psychopathic killings, but that is the story of the growing film industry here.
 George Romero, the Pittsburgh-based impresario of horror, put the city on the map for filmmakers in 1967 with the cult film "Night of the Living Dead." And since Jonathan Demme shot "The Silence of the Lambs" here two years ago, Pittsburgh has been the backdrop for 23 major films and television movies. 
The emergence of Pittsburgh as a popular location has pumped $65 million into the local economy and pleased many, including the Rev. W. David Schorr of the Most Holy Name of Jesus Roman Catholic Church in Troy Hill, an enclave of ethnic Germans and Austrians.
 "You can bet your boots it's good," Father Schorr said recently in his rectory as carpenters were in the church parking lot recreating Jimmy Hoffa's Teamster Union Hall, circa 1935 Detroit. Danny Devito is directing "Hoffa," an HBO film starring Jack Nicholson as the teamsters' union leader and Mr. Devito as his right-hand man.
 Another movie, John Landis's "Innocent Blood," a thriller about a beautiful vampire who feeds on Mafia killers, will be shot this month inside the church's 125-year-old chapel, St. Anthony's Shrine of The Holy Relics, which has 5,000 relics of saints displayed the walls.
 "You name it, we've got it," Father Schorr said. "We have the whole body of Saint Demitrius under the altar, and we have Saint Anthony's tooth, but I don't know which one it is, to tell you the truth."
 Father Schorr said the diocese is strict about what takes place in the church. Fortunately, he said, Anne Parillaud, the French actress who plays the vampire in "Innocent Blood," does not enter the chapel. "I don't think the diocese would want us to use the church for vampires, because of the satanic connection," he explained.
 The church and its struggling grammar school expect to earn from $10,000 to $15,000 from the two film companies shooting the movie, plus whatever profits come from selling Mr. Landis 90 cases of candles to illume the chapel and its relics.
 Filmmakers, ever in search of new looks and cheaper production costs, began flocking to Pittsburgh after "Silence of the Lambs," a $20 million production that made $250 million. Pittsburgh is now on a list of the top 10 film locations compiled by Baseline, an information service for the entertainment industry.
 Still Pittsburgh, which last year landed 10 feature and television movies, is a mere footnote compared to the nation's top location, Los Angeles, with 217 productions, and the second-most-popular location, New York, with 123. But strikes, like last year's by cinematographers and stage hands in New York, and production problems have driven some business to places like Pittsburgh, Atlanta, Chicago and Boston.
 "We went to Pittsburgh because it's got a great look, with a lot of diversity in landscape and architecture," said Chris Brigham, the production manager for "Silence of the Lambs," a film about a serial killer.
 Most filmmakers find or create ways to make Pittsburgh look like somewhere else, like New York, Detroit or Memphis. But Pittsburgh has surprised some location scouts. "We wanted the film to have the feeling of a generic East Coast city with cold weather, but after we saw it, we decided Pittsburgh should be Pittsburgh," said Leslie Belzberg, producer of "Innocent Blood."
 The city owes its recent good fortune to Mr. Romero, said Robert M. Curran, director of the 2-year-old Pittsburgh Film Office. "He broke the ground for filmmaking here, and many people in the film industry have worked with him as a zombie or something," said Mr. Curran, who scouts locations and finds crews for film companies.
 In 1990 Mr. Romero filmed "The Night of the Living Dead, the Remake," a $4 million, color version of his $60,000 classic that depicts otherwise nice people becoming flesh-eating monsters after they themselves have been chewed up a bit by their monsterized friends and family members. The film has not yet been released, but last year Pittsburgh Magazine jumped the gun and named Mr. Romero "Man of The Year."
 The article also referred incorrectly to the remake of the film "Night of the Living Dead." The film, written by George A. Romero and directed by Tom Savini, was released in 1990.
 
CORRECTION-DATE: February 11, 1992, Tuesday
 
CORRECTION: An article on Friday headed "Pittsburgh Journal," about local filmmaking, referred incorrectly to a film now being made. The film, "Hoffa," is a 20th Century Fox property, not an HBO film.
 The article also misattributed a quotation praising Pittsburgh as a film location. It was from Ron Bozman, a producer of "Silence of the Lambs," not from Chris Brigham. Mr. Brigham, a film production manager, had no connection with "Silence of the Lambs."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 18, 1992, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 7 headed "Pitts burgh Journal," about local filmmak ing, referred inaccurately to a labor dispute in New York last year be tween the major motion picture stu dios and film craft union members. A reader has pointed out in a letter dated Feb. 29 that the studios boycot ted New York for seven months dur ing a contract dispute over compen sation; there was no strike by cine matographers and stagehands. An accord was reached last summer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (53%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); PITTSBURGH FILM OFFICE (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH FILM OFFICE (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PITTSBURGH (PA) UNITED STATES (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (53%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY JAMES RIDDLE 'JIMMY' HOFFA (70%); DANIEL MICHAEL 'DANNY' DEVITO (69%); JONATHAN DEMME (58%); JACK NICHOLSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1992



263 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 16; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Accuser Flirted With Tyson, Witnesses Say

BYLINE: By E. R. SHIPP, Special to The New York Times

 BODY:
INDIANAPOLIS, Feb. 6 -- When Mike Tyson's accuser first met the former heavyweight champion at a beauty pageant last July, she was "star-struck," flirted with him and was soon talking about his money, four witnesses testified today in his rape trial.
 One of the witnesses, Madelyn D. Whittington, a college senior from Ohio, testified that minutes after the 23 contestants in the Miss Black America pageant were introduced to Tyson, the accuser told her of plans to go out with him. 
Yes, of course, I'm going,' " Whittington quoted the woman as saying. " 'This is Mike Tyson. He's got a lot of money. He's dumb. You see what Robin Givens got out of him.' " Givens, the actress, is Tyson's former wife. Like Tyson's accuser, Whittington and the three other defense witnesses were contestants in the pageant.
 Tyson has been accused of raping the 18-year-old woman in the early hours of July 19. The testimony of the four witnesses was meant to bolster one of the main defense contentions: that his accuser is a gold digger who from the beginning viewed him as a source of wealth. Tyson conceded that he had sex with the woman, but he has insisted that she consented.
 
A Joke About Tyson
 Two of the witnesses, Cecellia Alexander and Parquita Nassau, recalled with almost the same words, a conversation between Tyson's accuser and another contestant, Pasha Oliver. Oliver, they said, jokingly referred to Tyson as the woman's husband and joked about how inarticulate he was.
 The witnesses said the woman's reply was: "Mike doesn't have to know how to speak. He'll make all the money and I'll do all the talking."
 Their testimony came after a one-day delay in the trial caused by a fire early Wednesday morning that heavily damaged the hotel in which the jurors were being sequestered. Two firefighters and a businessman were killed in the blaze, but none of the jurors were injured. One juror was apparently too shaken by the fire to continue today. The juror, a 36-year-old unemployed man, was replaced by one of the alternates, a 44-year-old telephone company employee.
 
'Was Not Arson'
 Local officials said today that the fire had probably been triggered by defective wiring in a refrigeration unit on the third floor of the hotel. But because the jurors were in the same hotel -- though on the sixth floor -- arson investigators have been trying to determine if the fire was more than just a coincidence.
 "All the preliminary indications are that this was not arson," Jeffrey Modisett, the Marion County Prosecutor, told reporters today.
 In presenting Tyson's case, his lead lawyer, Vincent J. Fuller, has contended that the woman fabricated the rape charge after discovering that she would be nothing more than "a one-night stand." If Tyson is convicted of rape, Fuller has said, the woman will find it easier to win a civil lawsuit and become, in his words, "a very wealthy woman."
 The defense has also asserted that during Tyson's 36-hour visit to this city, as part of the Indiana Black Expo, a lot of people saw his rude, even lewd, behavior.
 
Described as Friendly
 His accuser, they have implied, must have been aware of this conduct and, in still agreeing to go out with him, must have been consenting to his sexual advances. She has denied seeing or hearing anything that put her on notice about his intentions.
 But Christine Harris, one of the contestants who testified for the defense today, said she saw nothing offensive in Tyson's actions, even describing him as "friendly, shy and somewhat reserved."
 The other three all testified to sexually suggestive comments. Nassau said that when pageant officials introduced Tyson to the contestants during the rehearsal, he said that he wanted to have sex with all of them. "I'm a celebrity and we do that sort of thing," she recalled Tyson saying.
 During the opening ceremony later in the afternoon, she said, she ignored Tyson's advances. "If you don't want to go out with me, I can move on, cause I can have any one of these" women, she said Tyson had told her.
 Then, she said, he grabbed her buttocks. She asked why he was disrespecting her and he apologized, she said.
 Taken together, the witnesses painted a different portrait of Tyson's accuser than that which emerged last week. But during cross-examination, the prosecutors did elicit testimony that seemed favorable to them.
 All of them except Nassau said that they could not be sure that Tyson's accuser had heard his remarks or had seen his behavior. And all except Nassau said that the hugging and joking between Tyson and the woman had appeared to be innocent.
 Nassau said Tyson's accuser was aware that Tyson had asked several of the contestants. "I saw them cuddling with each other," she said in response to questioning by one of the defense lawyers, F. Lane Heard. "They looked like they were involved with each other."
 
Characterized as Naive
 But Nassau also provided the prosecution with the strongest support for its characterization of the woman. Nassau described her as naive and "not streetwise."
 In addition to the former contestants, the jury heard from a gynecologist, Dr. Margaret Watanabe, who said it was impossible to tell if the two small vaginal abrasions the young woman had were caused by a rape or by consensual sex.
 Last week a prosecution witness, Dr. James Akin, said he had performed 20,0000 pelvic examinations and that the abrasions that another doctor found on the woman were "incredibly unlikely to happen in consensual sex."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MISS BLACK AMERICA PAGEANT

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (90%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;INDIANAPOLIS (IND) UNITED STATES (91%); INDIANA, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (90%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: SEX CRIMES; TRIALS; BOXING; BEAUTY CONTESTS; FIRES AND FIREMEN; HOTELS
AND MOTELS WITNESSES (91%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); EYEWITNESSES (89%); ARSON (88%); BOXING (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); LAWYERS (70%); FIRES (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (60%); 

PERSON: TYSON, MIKE; SHIPP, E R; WASHINGTON, DESIREE MIKE TYSON (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1992



264 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Issues;
Democrats All Agree Bush's Plan Fails to Meet Health-Care Needs

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7

 BODY:
In New Hampshire and in Congress, President Bush's Democratic opponents are offering much more ambitious plans for overhauling the nation's medical-care system than the one he unveiled on Thursday.
Although no consensus exists on a particular plan, the Democrats are united in advocating more Government involvement in providing universal insurance coverage and restraining health-care costs. 
 Mr. Bush, on the other hand, would retain the Government's basic hands-off approach toward doctors, employer-paid insurance policies and private insurance companies.
 
3 Offer Specific Plans
 All the candidates, Democratic and Republican, agree that the Government must act to make health care affordable and readily available to everyone. Three of the Democratic Presidential contenders -- Bob Kerrey, Paul E. Tsongas and Bill Clinton -- have taken specific and competing positions on the issue.
Mr. Kerrey, a Senator from Nebraska, favors a system similar to Canada's, with coverage for all citizens at Government expense.
Mr. Tsongas, a former Senator from Massachusetts, supports "managed competition," in which insurers, doctors and hospitals would compete for contracts with large groups of citizens.
Mr. Clinton, the Governor of Arkansas, favors the "pay or play" system in which employers would be required to provide medical insurance for their workers or pay a special tax to support a Government insurance program.
The main Democratic plans before Congress generally follow one of these three approaches, although some Democratic lawmakers favor a full-scale nationalized system like the one in Britain.
The other two principal Democratic contenders, Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa and former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California, have been less specific. But they say they support some form of national health insurance. Mr. Harkin promises to call labor, business and Government leaders together and "preside at the head of the table" until they develop a comprehensive plan.
Some Republicans in Congress are also backing more ambitious plans than Mr. Bush. One measure sponsored by more than 20 Republican senators would help more people with tax credits and deductions than the Bush proposal would. The Republican plan would also give the Federal Government more authority to pre-empt state laws and regulations.
Political leaders agree that no comprehensive plan will be enacted this year. The Democrats in Congress will block Republican proposals, and the President would veto any Democratic plan that cleared Congress.
The only measure that stands a chance of passing is an incremental one sponsored by Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas and Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, the Democratic chairmen of the tax-writing committees. It would make medical insurance more available and affordable to small businesses and make it easier for workers to change jobs without fear of losing insurance coverage.
But even if nothing is resolved this year, the election-year debate seems likely to pave the way for fundamental changes in the health-care system in the next Administration, regardless of who is elected President.
 
Strong Public Dissatisfaction
 The reason for the politicians' interest is clear: polls show enormous public unhappiness with the current medical-care system, in which 35 million Americans have no insurance and costs are rising yearly at more than double the overall inflation rate.
For instance, The New York Times/ CBS News Poll published last week found that three-quarters of all adults would like to see the Government spend more to provide affordable health care for all Americans.
There are several reasons why so many people now do not have medical insurance. In some cases their employers do not provide it, and they cannot afford coverage on their own.
In addition, more than half the people in the country with incomes below the official poverty line are not covered by Medicaid, the Federal-state program for the poor. That is because in most cases only families on welfare are eligible. In many states, the welfare cutoff is well below the poverty line, $10,857 for a family of three last year, and as a general rule the basic welfare program, Aid to Families With Dependent Children, covers only families with children.
In capsule, here are the main plans that are under discussion:
 
BUSH
 Main elements: Vouchers for poor people and tax deductions for the middle class to help pay for medical insurance from private companies. The insurance companies would be required to provide coverage to anyone willing to pay for it, regardless of pre-existing medical conditions. Small businesses would be encouraged to band together to buy health insurance for their employees, lowering the cost by spreading the risk. Health maintenance organizations and other arrangements less costly than fee-for-service medicine would be encouraged. Medicare and Medicaid funds would be cut to raise money to finance the plan.
Advantages: Those who cannot now afford insurance would get basic coverage. This plan would be less disruptive to doctors, hospitals and insurers than other proposals. Government would not intrude in the marketplace. Taxes would not be raised.
Disadvantages: Mr. Bush did not specify how the added cost, about $35 billion a year, would be met. With little incentive for employers to shop for insurance plans, it might not be easy to keep costs down. Insufficient provisions are made for adjusting the vouchers and deductions to account for inflation or for dealing with regional health-cost differences.
 
KERREY
 Main elements: Similar to Canada's system, the Government would impose new taxes to raise money that would be passed on to the states. Medicare, Medicaid and employer-based insurance would be scrapped. People could choose a state insurance policy or a private policy meeting minimum Federal standards. The private companies would be paid a fixed amount by the states for each person enrolled. States would set medical-service fees.
Advantages: Everyone would get full coverage without paying premiums. Costs could be regulated because state systems would operate under fixed budgets. States and private insurers would compete over which could provide better benefits, perhaps leading to savings. Workers would not have to depend on employers for insurance.
Disadvantages: Higher taxes would be needed, though they would be offset somewhat by the better wages employers, freed of insurance costs, would be able to pay. A Federal bureaucracy would replace the free-market system. Services might have to be rationed if state budgets fell short. Without the incentive of earning more money, health providers might not invest in improved technology.
 
TSONGAS
 Main elements: Insurance would be bought for everyone by a group like a large company, several small companies banded together, a labor union or a public plan financed by payroll taxes on employers. The unemployed and workers without steady jobs would be placed in the public plan. Private insurance companies and health maintenance organizations would bid for contracts from these groups.
Advantages: The groups would wield considerable market power. Costs would be restrained because insurers would compete to provide attractive services and because favorable fees could be negotiated with doctors. Experts would monitor quality of care.
Disadvantages: To hold down costs, most companies would contract with health maintenance organizations rather than allow fee-for-service medicine. That would limit consumers' choice of doctors. People who are bad risks because of their medical conditions could probably be forced into the public plans, costing the Government money. The system might not adequately control the rapidly rising cost of medical care.
 
CLINTON
 Main elements: Employers would have to insure all employees or pay an additional tax into a public fund to cover the uninsured. One such plan approved last month by the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee would put the tax at 7.5 percent of payroll. A Government board would set national medical-care cost goals and perhaps actual prices.
Advantages: This would be less disruptive of the current system than the Kerrey or Tsongas approaches, would require little additional Federal financing and would keep insurance companies happy, which could make it acceptable politically. A big tax increase on workers would be avoided.
Disadvantages: If the payroll tax is set too low and costly conditions are placed on insurance plans, employers would opt to dump workers into the public plan. If the tax is set high, it would be an invisible tax on wages. Price controls could discourage doctors and hospitals from improving quality.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); NATIONALIZATION (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (67%); MEDICARE (57%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); TOM HARKIN (78%); JERRY BROWN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



265 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: U.S. To Offer Plan To Keep Scientists At Work In Russia

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7

 BODY:
The United States plans to propose to Russia the formation of a Western-financed clearinghouse intended to find jobs for thousands of Soviet nuclear scientists who might otherwise sell their expertise to hostile countries, Administration officials said today.
The clearinghouse would pair the talents of the estimated 2,000 to 3,000 scientists who have the most advanced nuclear knowledge with the needs of foreign investors, universities, private research organizations or governments willing to pay for commercial nuclear research. 
 This is one of several ideas that Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d is to take up with President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia on a trip that will be devoted in part to visiting outlying former Soviet republics -- Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan -- and in part to working out new arms control understandings with the Commonwealth of Independent States. Mr. Baker is to leave Washington on Sunday.
 
Averting a 'Brain Drain'
 The centerpiece of the American proposal to address the possible "brain drain" of nuclear scientists is the suggestion to establish clearinghouses in one or more centers outside of Moscow, in the key cities that made up the former Soviet nuclear military-industrial complex.
Cities being considered for such centers, officials say, are Nizhny Novgorod, formerly known as Gorky, a major military-industrial city on the Volga River, and Novosibirsk and its sister city, Akademgorod, in Siberia, which under the Soviet system had long been a center for scientists and academics. Both areas housed thousands of nuclear scientists and technicians.
The scientists would be put to work on specific civilian commercial contracts initiated from abroad, or on Government-sponsored projects that would focus on taking military-related technologies, like magnetic fusion, and applying them to civilian uses, like new energy approaches.
 
Conversion to Civilian Use
 "The idea is to find those things that the Russians can do well and see whether there is a commercial application that can attract foreign capital and private investors so the centers will eventually be self-sustaining," an American official said. "In this way you hope not just to divert them from their overly militarized economy, but also to promote privatization."
Washington's "short-term goal is to stem proliferation of nuclear technology," he added, but its long-term agenda is to promote conversion of military industries to civilian use.
Financing of and participation in the proposed new centers, which would either be built from scratch or go into some existing former Soviet complexes, would be provided by the United States, Germany and other Western allies, American officials envisage.
In an interview this week with Pravda, Viktor N. Mikhailov, the director of the nuclear military program of the former Soviet Union, said that roughly 100,000 people were employed altogether in the former Soviet nuclear military-industrial complex.
"Really secret" information and nuclear bomb technology is possessed by roughly 10,000 to 15,000 nuclear scientists in his country, he said, with between 2,000 and 3,000 of them possessing "information of paramount importance in sophisticated technologies."
 
The Scientific Elite
 Mr. Baker's proposal focuses first on finding employment for the elite 2,000 to 3,000 nuclear scientists who possess the truly advanced technological and theoretical knowledge to make and modernize nuclear weapons.
The Americans are also devising ways to help keep employed the thousands of secondary scientists and technicians involved in the nuclear military industry. Here the focus will be to combine the commonwealth's commitment to dismantle and destroy many of its nuclear weapons, in line with recently signed treaties and unilateral offers, and the American willingness to help pay for this project with $400 million appropriated by Congress.
The Under Secretary of State for International Security Affairs, Reginald Bartholomew, said this week in testimony to Congress: "Dismantling will employ a lot of nuclear scientists. They who built them can unbuild them."
Another element of this program will clearly involve employing former Soviet nuclear scientists by having them work on reprocessing the highly enriched uranium and plutonium from the thousands of weapons that will be destroyed and adapting it for peaceful research or energy purposes.
"We will be examining during the course of this upcoming trip how we might be able to utilize the enriched uranium, the plutonium, and so forth, that is removed as nuclear weapons are destroyed," Mr. Baker said in testimony before Congress this week. "The Russians have approached us with questions involving the extent to which we might be interested in talking to them about sales of some of the lower-grade reactor fuel uranium from there to here, and these kinds of things we are exploring with them."
In addition, Mr. Baker said, "One of the things that we've kicked around is the idea maybe that they might come over here and either study in or work on grants of some kind or another in some of our more sophisticated educational institutions."
In his interview, though, Mr. Mikhailov raised a delicate issue that is bound to arise: Russia's insistence that it be allowed to continue pursuing military nuclear research as well.
"I am sure that Russia must also keep its finger on the pulse of nuclear science," he said. "If there is any breakthrough in the weapons field by other states, Russia must know how to respond with a breakthrough of its own. This is all the more necessary in that the number of countries that possess nuclear weapons will increase markedly over the next 10 years and the situation could become unpredictable."
 
How Much Cooperation?
 This Russian desire to continue modernizing its nuclear arsenal poses an uneasy quandary for Washington. The Russians are not yet the British in American eyes -- a trusted ally -- but they are not the "evil empire" anymore, either. They say they want to be an ally, but that can only be proven over time, not overnight. So officials wonder how much Washington should cooperate with them.
An Administration military expert said, "How do we sustain political support for helping them with peaceful research, when some of their big weapons complexes might still be operating, and funds we are giving them for peaceful research could free up other funds for military research?"
Beyond the brain-drain issues, Mr. Baker will be opening negotiations with Mr. Yeltsin's Government on how to carry out the recent flurry of unilateral arms reduction cuts proposed by Mr. Yeltsin and President Bush. In particular, they will address the gap between Mr. Yeltsin's proposal that the two sides reduce their long-range nuclear arsenals to 2,500 warheads and the American proposal to go down to about 4,700. The recently signed strategic arms treaty is to bring both sides down to about 9,000.
American officials say they might be ready to move slightly closer to the Yeltsin number, but not very far. It will take until the year 2000 just to dismantle down to the 9,000 level, they say, and going far beyond that now is both unrealistic and maybe imprudent.
"A lot of 'the old guard' in the Soviet military are still around at the General Staff," an American official said. "They see the handwriting on the wall, that they cannot be a superpower at the old level anymore, so they want us to come down with them. But why should we? I mean, if we are not enemies any longer, and if they say we don't threaten them and they don't threaten us, why should we have to have parity any more? That's old thinking."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); TURKMENISTAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (83%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (83%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); TURKMENISTAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY NUCLEAR SCIENCE (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (66%); CITY LIFE (66%); CITIES (66%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



266 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: GEORGIA HARVESTER IS FINED $1 MILLION IN ALIEN SMUGGLING

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: FORT VALLEY, Ga., Feb. 7

 BODY:
A local peach harvester was fined $1.1 million today by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the largest fine in the agency's history, in an action that showed both how tough and how porous the nation's landmark 1986 immigration reform law can be.
Immigration officials said four employees of the harvester, the Lane Packing Company, had smuggled thousands of aliens into the country over the last two years and had employed many of them, keeping them in conditions akin to bondage while the aliens worked to pay off the fees charged by the smugglers. 
 The previous record fine imposed by the immigration service, in 1989, was $580,000, levied against the Piedmont Quilting Corporation of Walhalla, S.C.
 
A Dramatic Demonstration
 Today's action was a dramatic show of just how tough the provisions of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 can be. Under the law, which mandates stiff penalties for those who hire illegal aliens, employers are required to verify the work eligibility of all employees hired after Nov. 6, 1986, and to refrain from hiring people not authorized to work in the United States.
Thomas P. Fischer, district director of the immigration service in Atlanta, who announced the fine, conceded that it was also a sign of how rampant smuggling operations continue to be, even though unemployment in the United States is at a five-year high.
"This will put a major dent into illegal employment activities in the Southeast and also cripple a major smuggling ring," he said. "But this is just one of many."
 
Appeals Are Planned
 Jay Hawkins, a lawyer who spoke on behalf of the company's owner, Duke Lane, said: "We have 30 days to appeal in writing with the administrative law judge with the I.N.S. We'll have a hearing there, and if we're unable to reach a satisfactory result then we will appeal to the U.S. District Court here."
The company is one of Georgia's largest peach harvesters and packers, but no information on its current earnings was immediately available.
The immigration service said four Lane employees were at the heart of a major smuggling ring that for two years brought in about 500 aliens a month during an eight-week harvesting season. The aliens were transported from the interior of Mexico to the Southeastern United States.
The employees, one of them a foreman, are Bernardo, David and Gaston Macedo, all brothers, and their stepbrother, Aguileo Castillo.
Officials said the aliens crossed the Rio Grande near Del Rio, Tex., and were then transported in trucks and vans to Lane's headquarters here and to other employers in the United States. The aliens were supplied with transportation and fake documentation at a cost of up to $1,400 a person.
Mr. Fischer said about 800 aliens went to work for Lane and the rest for employers in other parts of Georgia, as well as in Florida and North Carolina. He said 80 percent of Lane's workers appeared to be illegal aliens.
The four Lane employees were arrested in June and later convicted of smuggling the aliens from Mexico.
Mr. Fischer said the fine today was so large because of the smuggling operation and the degree to which nearly all the documentation required as proof of legal residence was either grossly inadequate or fraudulent.
 
'Bondage-Type Operation'
 He said it also reflected the degree to which the aliens were kept in a "little bondage-type operation." He said the aliens paid rent and utilities of $60 to $70 a month, in addition to the fees for passage and documentation, to stay in substandard barracks-like buildings.
"There was no indoor plumbing at all," Mr. Fischer said. "It was basically pressboard, non-air-conditioned. They were sleeping on the floor, no light sockets, light bulbs, things of that nature. It was just a roof over their head."
Historically, most of the farm labor in the South has been done by blacks. But over the last two decades Hispanic workers have become the backbone of the agricultural workforce.
Agricultural employers have cited the difficulty of finding American workers to do menial farm labor.
Al Pearson, chairman of the Georgia Agricultural Commodity Commission for Peaches, said that over the last 10 years most growers have switched from local workers to a migrant labor force because of a lack of local workers able to do seasonal work under difficult conditions.
 
'Professional Seasonal Worker'
 "People can't subsist on 10 weeks of work and sit around the rest of the year," he said, "so you wind up going to a more professional seasonal worker, and they are mobile and follow the work, say, from Florida citrus to Georgia peaches."
But blacks interviewed here said they would work in the peach orchards if the jobs were available.
"People will do the work," said John Brown, who described himself as self-employed. "I think they just want to find people who will do it cheaper."
Mr. Fischer said some unscrupulous employers prefer to pay wages so low that only illegal workers will take them.
"What happens is you just take a job and write the darn thing down, knowing an American won't take four bucks an hour, and they justify to themselves, 'Well, we're going to have to hire illegal aliens because we can't get Americans,' " he said. "That's baloney. The calls I get and what I see people doing today to keep their families solvent and above the poverty level -- yeah, I see people working and taking those jobs."
 
Investigation Is Continuing
 Immigration officials said that the investigation in the Lane case was continuing and that other fines or criminal action could be forthcoming.
Mr. Fischer said the action today was a sign that the Immigration Reform and Control Act, which offered the promise of legal status to many aliens and stiff penalties for employers who hire illegal aliens, can be an effective tool.
But he said the continued influx of aliens was also an indication that the law could easily be circumvented.
"I believe the act has the proper tools, but two things come to mind," Mr. Fischer said. "One is the resources allocated to the I.N.S. need to be reassessed for us to combat this type of criminal activity. Secondly, there appears to be a growing cottage industry in the fraudulent document area. We need to make the documentation counterfeitproof, and I don't think right now the documentation has that type of protection."
Even if Lane is found liable, it is not clear what the ultimate fine will be. Verne Jervis, an I.N.S. spokesman in Washington, said he believed the previous record fine of about $500,000 was eventually settled for about $300,00.
But Mr. Fischer said he hoped the fine against Lane would serve notice to other employers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE; LANE PACKING CO LANE PACKING CO (90%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE; LANE PACKING CO IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; GEORGIA UNITED STATES (95%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; AGRICULTURE; PEACHES; IMMIGRATION REFORM AND CONTROL ACT OF 1986; MIGRANT LABOR ; FINES (PENALTIES) IMMIGRATION (93%); IMMIGRATION LAW (92%); SMUGGLING (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (90%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (89%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); LAWYERS (73%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); LITIGATION (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); APPEALS (64%); JUDGES (64%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



267 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International 2-5
 
SOVIET SCIENTISTS FOR SALE . . .
To keep scientists from the former Soviet Union from selling their expertise elsewhere, Secretary of State Baker will propose a clearinghouse to match the experts with jobs. 1 

. . . AND A RUSH TO BUY THEIR WARES
Developers of the Star Wars program are pressing to snap up Soviet technology they say would speed creation of a limited anti-missile defense program in the U.S. 1
 
Russia releases a blueprint for a crash privatization program. 4
 
PAKISTAN ADMITS NUCLEAR ABILITY
For the first time, Pakistan has admitted publicly that it has the technology to make an atomic bomb, but says it will not build or detonate one or use the information unwisely. 5
 
LOST IN LEFT FIELD?
Hiroshi Yamauchi dislikes video games and has no interest in baseball. But as Nintendo's president he wants to buy control of the Seattle Mariners. Odd? No, he insists. 1
 
HAITI REFUGEES CRISSCROSS
The U.S. hoped to send 500 Haitian refugees back from Guantanamo Bay every Monday, Wednesday and Friday, but no end is in sight as shiploads of returnees pass small boats headed to Cuba. 3
 
NO BRIDGE ON LOAN GUARANTEES
The Secretary of State heard Israel's counterproposals to American conditions for loan guarantees, but the two sides could not bridge the gaps between their positions. 5
 
CHANGING STANCE OF SHAMIR
Prime Minister Shamir suggested that Israel's position had shifted regarding the kind of autonomy it could offer Palestinians living in the occupied territories. 5
 
FRESH FEAR IN NORTHERN IRELAND
Michael O'Dwyer, a victim of this week's violence in Northern Ireland, was buried today, but the specter of fear and hatred is as strong as ever in the divided province. 2
 
ALGERIA CONFLICT SPREADS
Violence between fundamentalist Muslims and troops escalated as fighting flared in cities beyond the capital. 3
 
Both sides in Somalia will meet in New York to discuss a cease-fire. 2
 
National 6-9
 
RECORD FINE OVER ALIENS
In an action illustrating both how tough and how porous the nation's landmark 1986 immigration reform law can be, the Government imposed a $1.1 million fine on a Georgia peach-harvesting company that smuggled thousands of aliens into the country and kept many in conditions akin to bondage. 1
 
'THE KING OF CONCEALMENT'
A Federal judge said that for 40 years the tobacco industry's chief research arm had described its own mission as a "front" and a "shield" against Congressional hearings, lawsuits or scientific research about the health risks of smoking. 1
 
A LAND WITHOUT RECESSION
There is no race in Iowa's Presidential caucuses this year, but the state can do without the extra money that usually accompanies them. 1
 
WHO'S WHERE ON HEALTH CARE
In New Hampshire and in Congress, President Bush's Democratic opponents are offering much more ambitious plans for overhauling the medical care system than the one he proposed on Thursday. 1
 
Mr. Bush called one Democratic plan "socialized medicine." 9
 
KERREY'S CAMPAIGN STYLE
For weeks, Senator Kerrey has resisted advice to offer a clear, bite-sized message, choosing instead to speak in broad and occasionally mystical terms about the need for "fundamental change." In place of a standard speech with obvious applause lines, he has offered an often-changing meditation on the urgency of the nation's situation. 8
 
Governor Clinton's opponents are stepping up attacks on him. 8
 
For the Buchanan campaign, a time of transition.8
 
MTV -- yes, MTV -- has hit the Presidential campaign trail. 8
 
DEATH OF A CRITIC
Mike Kalina, a popular restaurant critic, committed suicide a week ago, leaving behind a Federal inquiry into whether he had been engaged in unethical and possibly criminal business dealings. 6
 
NEW ORLEANS RETREATS ON BIAS
After months of growing animosity over a new Mardis Gras anti-bias ordinance, New Orleans acted to ease tensions and protect the city's leading tourist attraction by removing much of the law's teeth. 6
 
Metropolitan Digest, 23
 
NEW WOUND IN CROWN HEIGHTS
The day after the murder of a Hasidic woman sent hundreds of Jewish demonstrators on a bitter protest march through the street of Crown Heights, city officials, black, Jewish community leaders and the police tried to prevent the death from escalating into the kind of racial conflagration that racked the neighborhood last August. 1
 
Neediest Cases 26
 
Business Digest 35
 
Sports 28-33
 
Baseball: Cadaret settles. 31
 
Basketball: Game may be Magic Johnson's last. 32
 
Laettner vs. O'Neal, sort of. 33
 
Big East Notebook 33
 
Boxing: Holmes wins by unanimous decision. 31
 
Column: Rhoden on women in sports. 29
 
Hockey: Rangers lose to Capitals. 29
 
Devils' Chorske moving quickly. 31
 
Olympics: Eyes look up to downhill. 29
 
Killy in a unique return. 30
 
Who will light the flame? 30
 
CBS gambling on tape delay. 30
 
I.O.C. may recognize former Soviet republics. 30
 
Outdoors: Sturgeon fishing in Michigan. 33
 
Track: O'Sullivan wins Wanamaker Mile. 31
 
Tyson Trial: Boxer takes stand. 29
 
Consumer's World 50
 
Supermarket shopping by phone.
 
Southwest: No frills, few complaints.
 
Snowshoes to run in.
 
An auto backup light that beeps.
 
Arts/Entertainment 11-16, 48
 
Art resale royalties debated. 11
 
Music: Met "Tannhauser." 11
 
Classical reviews 14
 
Music Notes 15
 
Odean Pope's saxophone choir. 15
 
Dance: "The Monkey King." 11
 
Dalton-Hartel debut. 16
 
Charles Ives's essence. 16
 
TV: "Roc" plans live episode. 48
 
Obituaries 10
 
Benjamin Shalleck, a long-serving municipal judge.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 20-21
 
Editorials 20
 
U.S. says "uncle" on Haiti.
 
The new Olympics.
 
Mopping up the CUNY slush.
 
The bandshell cannot play on.
 
Letters 20
 
Russell Baker: Do it yourself. 21
 
Jessica Gress-Wright: Let's hear it for the Protestant ethic. 21
 
Ezra F. Vogel: Japan is a rival, not an enemy. 21
 
Flora Lewis: Gurkhas can solve the U.N.'s problem. 21
 
Kiichi Miyazawa's words. 21

GRAPHIC: Photo: The man behind Mario doesn't care much for video games. 1 (Nintendo of America Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (92%); HAITI (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SOMALIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CUBA (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NINTENDO CO LTD (56%); SEATTLE MARINERS (56%); SEATTLE MARINERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE MARINERS (56%); SEATTLE MARINERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (92%); HAITI (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SOMALIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CUBA (70%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); REFUGEES (88%); FINES & PENALTIES (85%); IMMIGRATION (79%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); COMPUTER GAMES (74%); BASEBALL (74%); POLITICS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); SMUGGLING (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); IMMIGRATION LAW (66%); FUNDAMENTALISM (65%); SMOKING (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (61%); LITIGATION (60%); CAUCUSES (60%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (60%); JUDGES (60%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



268 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: U.S. To Offer Plan To Keep Scientists At Work In Russia;
Agency Seeking Soviet Advances For 'Star Wars'

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

 BODY:
Leaders of the United States anti-missile research program, or "Star Wars," are pressing to buy critical technologies from the counterpart program in the former Soviet Union.
The officials believe that this will significantly speed up deployment of the limited anti-missile defense system now planned by the United States. Their statements have been made in interviews and in Congressional testimony and quoted in an aerospace magazine. 
 The officials have asked the Bush Administration to clear the way for plans to take advantage of the collapsed Soviet Union by acquiring some of its most advanced technologies and hiring about a thousand of its scientists and engineers.
 
Toward A-Power in Space
 This could be a post-cold-war equivalent of Operation Paper Clip, after World War II, when Americans recruited leaders of the pioneering German V-2 rocket project.
Officials of the "Star Wars" program, the Strategic Defense Initiative Organization, said yesterday in interviews that they were especially interested in buying prototypes of a nuclear power system that would orbit in space. They said they also seek components for electric propulsion units for rockets that would be able to make space flights at a lower cost than the current chemical rockets. American engineers say the Russians appear to be ahead in both of these important areas of technology.
The "Star Wars" program has also drawn up a shopping list of Soviet-developed technologies in more than 50 areas vital to aerospace research, according to the magazine Aviation Week and Space Technology. The magazine said a plan had been presented to the Defense Department and the White House that would authorize spending $50 million for the space hardware and employ as many as 1,000 former Soviet technicians.
Besides the nuclear power system called Topaz 2 and the electric propulsion system known as Hall thrusters, other items high on the shopping list include liquid rocket engines, high-temperature electrical switches called tacitrons and neutral particle beam technologies for space weapons, the magazine said.
Also high on the list are Soviet ballistic missiles and data about their performance abilities, the magazine reported. Any missiles likely to be encountered by America's anti-missile defense system will probably be either these same missiles or ones built by third world countries to the same design. Such information would be of critical assistance to engineers designing the defense system.
Dick McCormick, a spokesman for the strategic defense organization, said yesterday that all the officials who could comment on the reported plan were traveling and unavailable. The proposal to acquire the nuclear reactor and the electric propulsion units has been raised in recent Congressional testimony.
 
Big Savings Is Seen
 In the Aviation Week article, Western engineers said to be familiar with the agency's more wide-ranging procurement plan were quoted as saying that the initial cost is estimated at less than $50 million. This would be a small fraction of the $5.4 billion the Administration is seeking in the next fiscal year for anti-ballistic missile defense programs. They said the plan could save the nation more than $4 billion in "Star Wars" development costs and also help bolster the troubled economy of the former Soviet republics.
Specialists in strategic arms said they were not surprised by the report, noting that the "Star Wars" officials have been ahead of the rest of the Administration in seeking to gain access to major technologies that the Russians are eager to sell for much-needed hard currencies. But several experts familiar with previous efforts to acquire the technology said the plan could run into stiff opposition in the Administration.
Steve Aftergood, a policy analyst for the Federation of American Scientists in Washington, said: "It's curious that S.D.I. has been the leading advocate for purchasing Soviet technology more than a year now. The Administration response overall has been absolute gridlock."
 
Industry Criticism Expected
 The plan could also draw criticism from American industry, fearing inroads by products and engineers from the former Soviet Union could further erode its economic position. But Dr. Leonard H. Caveny, deputy director of innovative science and technology at the strategic defense agency, said in a telephone interview yesterday, "Aerospace people understand this is not a threat because these will be only elements of bigger systems, which will be American."
Dr. Caveny said representatives of the "Star Wars" agency spent two weeks in Russia last fall conducting performance tests on the Hall electric thrusters. He said they were encouraged enough by the results to recommend that the agency buy four of the engines for further research.
In Congressional testimony last week, Dr. Dwight Duston, director of innovative science and technology at the strategic defense agency, said the purchase of an unfueled Topaz 2 space nuclear reactor would enable the United States to assess the technology and its "compatibility with U. S. payloads." He said the Pentagon is "now considering whether to proceed with this procurement."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: STRATEGIC DEFENSE SYSTEMS (56%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE WEAPONS (STAR WARS); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSILES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES MISSILE SYSTEMS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (89%); SPACE WEAPONS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (88%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (88%); SPACE PROPULSION (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); WORLD WAR II (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); SPACECRAFT (71%); 

PERSON: WILFORD, JOHN NOBLE; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



269 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Iowa, Its Economy Healthy, Scarcely Misses Caucus Blitz

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Feb. 5

 BODY:
Just days before the Iowa caucuses, there are no Presidential candidates kissing pigs or courting farmers, no telephone banks digging for supporters and no crowds at the bars. For months, all has been quiet during what is normally a quadrennial bonanza that brings worldwide attention and tens of millions of dollars to the Iowa economy.
But this year, one of the state's Senators, Tom Harkin, is running for the Democratic nomination, so his party's caucuses on Monday are likely to be no contest. The Republican meetings will not even express Presidential preferences. Still, while the state may be feeling a psychological loss, the change has not been the economic blow that many leaders feared. 
 This year, more than in any recent election year, Iowa can do without the extra money. While much of the rest of the country is mired in recession, Iowa, chastened and wiser after the hard times of the 1980's, has managed to escape it.
The state's unemployment rate, at 4.7 percent, is well below the national average. Farm land values have risen for the fifth straight year. Housing starts are at near record levels. Business bankruptcy filings are half what they were in 1987. And last year more than a dozen companies announced plans to move to Iowa and hire thousands of the state's already hard-to-get workers.
That has put Iowa in stark contrast to the economic misery in New Hampshire, the center of Presidential politics now, and much of the rest of the country, where long lines for a scant supply of jobs have become an enduring symbol of tough times.
And so instead of bemoaning the absence of candidates and reporters on expense accounts, Iowa is counting its good fortune. "We haven't lost anything with the caucus," said Sandi Stamp, coordinator of Iowa Caucus Project, a visitor information office that the Des Moines Chamber of Commerce sets up at caucus time. "That was gravy."
Iowa, like much of the Middle West, took its blows during the early and mid-1980's when high debt and interest rates, repeated droughts and low crop prices forced farm foreclosures and bank failures. Businesses left or laid off workers. Those that survived retooled, automated and began the slow road to recovery, whittling the jobless rate down from a high of 8 percent and investing in equipment and new construction only cautiously.
"All the companies in Iowa that didn't have staying power are gone," said Harvey Siegelman, an economist at the Iowa Department of Economic Development.
What has emerged is an economy with stable, incremental growth rather than wide swings. "Iowa is more a story of flatness than of extremes," said David Allardice, vice president and assistant director of research at the Federal Reserve Bank in Chicago. "We didn't have the speculative excess in the 80's."
Mr. Siegelman added, "The recession of the 80's in Iowa saved us from the national recession of the 90's."
Now much of Iowa is experiencing a sense of understated prosperity. Service sector jobs, fueled by a strong insurance and financial industry in Des Moines, grew 10 percent in the last five years. The rate of growth in the same time period was 7 percent nationwide, Mr. Allardice said.
 
Some Worries Remain
 And while the manufacturing sector continued to contract as companies with big Iowa operations like John Deere, the farm equipment manufacturer, and Winnebago, maker of motor homes, found that people in the rest of the country could not afford big-ticket items, manufacturers managed to hold the decline in jobs to less than half a percent last year. Nationwide, manufacturing jobs declined by nearly 5 percent.
Economists do worry about declining pork and beef prices. If the downward trend is prolonged, they say, it could land farmers in deeper debt. But these experts also point out that this is a different Iowa from the one that seemed like one big farm foreclosure only a few years ago, and while the state got a $25 million windfall from the 1988 caucuses, it will do fine without them this year.
Politically, though, it is not such a different Iowa. In the caucus system, people attending meetings in their voting precincts express Presidential preferences by selecting delegates to county, district and state party conventions. Since the 1970's, when the caucuses began attracting national attention as the first measure of strength in Presidential elections, many people have become savvy participants or spectators, and for them, there is a sense of loss.
Guido Fenu, owner of a Des Moines restaurant that has been a gathering place for political and press entourages, went to France for the Olympics this week rather than watch nothing happen in Iowa.
Lowell Junkins, the Democratic candidate for governer in 1986, said he did not even know what time his caucus would start. "Whatever we do, it doesn't count," he said.
And Mike Lavalle, another Des Moines restaurant owner who remembers desperate camera crews videotaping meat cooking on his grill, is experiencing caucus withdrawal, characterized by a burning desire to see satellite transmitting trucks on Locust Street.
"Before, I could look at a candidate and say, 'I know what he looks like at breakfast and what he looks like at the end of the day,' " Mr. Lavalle said. "You feel disenfranchised. You feel like a regular citizen."
Though the caucuses are not bringing in visitors, the better times are bringing back many of the Iowans who defected to Texas, California and elsewhere in the 1980's.
"Things have turned around," said G. David Hurd, chairman of The Principal Financial Group. The insurance and financial services company has added 300 to 500 new positions each year since 1988 and has changed the Des Moines skyline with an ambitious building program that included a 44-story office building. "People are coming back because they can find work," Mr. Hurd said.
By the end of last year, the unemployment rate in Des Moines had dropped to 3.8 percent, and now there is an air of quiet efficiency and assuredness in the office buildings and in the downtown "skywalk" network that connects them by way of raised, enclosed walkways.
When employers have a job opening, instead of finding long lines of applicants as is the case in hard-hit New Hampshire and other regions, employers in Iowa worry if they can find enough people to fill their openings. "Hardly anybody's coming in for applications," said Chip Human, general manager of the Fairfield Inn in West Des Moines.
 
Employers Sharing Workers
 In some cases, employers are finding they must share their employees with other companies because many applicants are merely looking for supplementary income, not a job to put food on the table.
The Residence Inn, down the block from the Fairfield, just hired a man who is an auditor at an insurance company during the day to be its night desk clerk. Most of the other applicants for the position also had other jobs.
"People in Des Moines aren't really looking for work," said Lissa Helling, the hotel's general manager. "It's just not a reality for us. I guess we're very fortunate."
Indeed, Des Moines is making money, but it's just not the same without the caucuses, people say. This week, instead of opening its doors to the men who would be leader of the free world, Des Moines is the site of the Iowa Pork Convention and 37th annual Farm Machinery Show.
"The element of celebrity status, having the whole world watching, having Diane Sawyer in our skywalk system, you miss that," said Debra Steilen, spokeswoman for the Greater Des Moines Convention and Visitors Bureau. "But we didn't hold our breath waiting for that to happen again."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Iowa Pulse" shows Iowa's population, unemployment, and presidential politics. (Sources: Census Bureau; national and state labor departments; Iowa Department of Economic Development; Almanac of American Politics; state parties)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (99%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (50%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IOWA UNITED STATES (99%); IOWA, USA (99%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); RECESSION (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); HOUSING STARTS (71%); TRENDS (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); 

PERSON: HARKIN, TOM (SEN) TOM HARKIN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



270 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: ISRAEL INFORMS U.S. OF STAND ON LOANS

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7

 BODY:
The Israeli Ambassador, Zalman Shoval, today presented Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d with his country's counterproposals to American conditions for granting loan guarantees, but the two sides failed to narrow their differences, Israeli and American officials said.
"There is agreement on some points," Mr. Shoval told reporters after the meeting at the State Department. "There is not agreement on some other points." 
 Mr. Shoval said Israel did not believe that the question of Israeli settlement-building in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip should be linked to the request for humanitarian aid to absorb Jewish immigrants from the former Soviet Union. But he added, "Obviously, that view is not entirely shared by the United States."
 
Three Main Points
 The American position on extending the $10 billion in loan guarantees to Israel is based on three points. First, Israel would be allowed to complete housing starts now under way in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, which are estimated by United States officials at anywhere from 5,000 to 9,000, depending how a housing start is defined.
Second, the United States is insisting on a halt to all new housing starts in the territories after the loan guarantees go into effect. If the ban were violated by Israel, it would mean an end to the loan guarantees.
Third, the Bush Administration and Congressional leaders now seem to agree that the United States should deduct one dollar in loan guarantees from every dollar Israel spends in the occupied territories to complete the dwellings already under way there.
This would apply not only to houses, but also to roads and other infrastructure. This condition is intended to underscore Washington's position that it does not want to be directly or indirectly paying for settlements that it has called "an obstacle to peace."
Mr. Shoval came back today, officials said, with a counteroffer also based on three principles. First, he apparently indicated that Israel might consider a slowdown in new housing starts but not a total halt to them.
 
Arguing for 'Natural Growth'
 Israel's position is that even if it were to halt the start of construction of all new settlements, there has to be some room for what Israeli officials call "natural growth" of the Jewish settlements already in the occupied territories. They argue that families may need to add a room for children or parents, or that new schools, community centers, grocery stores and roads may have to be built.
Mr. Shoval argued today that Palestinian Arabs are also beneficiaries of Israeli road-building and well-digging in the territories.
Second, and not surprisingly, Mr. Shoval was ready to accept the American position that Israel should be able to complete those housing starts already under way in the territories. But he counted the housing starts at roughly 13,500 -- the number being used by the Israeli Housing Minister, Ariel Sharon.
Third, officials said, Mr. Shoval told Mr. Baker that Israel would be prepared to accept deductions from the loan guarantees as outlined in a proposal by Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont -- provided that they kick in only after the completion of the 13,500 dwellings and after the natural growth that Israel and the United States would agree could come on top of that.
Israel says the deductions should not be applied to infrastructure like roads used by both Jews and Arabs, but purely to housing.
Senator Leahy heads the Senate Foreign Operations Subcommittee, which oversees foreign aid and the loan guarantee issue. He was briefed by Mr. Baker after the talks with Mr. Shoval.
 
Refusing to Accept Dictates
 "My analysis," Senator Leahy said in an interview, "is that there are a lot of differences between both parties, but the one basic difference is on the question of new settlements.
"The President has said that this time we really mean that there will be no new settlements. And the Israelis say that may or may not be a good idea, but we can't be in a position to have the United States or any other country tell us what we do in that area. If you could work your way through that issue, the other issues would be resolved quickly."
Senator Leahy said that if the Israelis and the Administration cannot close a deal within the next couple of weeks, he will present his own compromise plan. If it is rejected by the Israelis, the White House or both, he will take it off the table and tell all the parties that "there won't be a loan guarantee package this year." Senator Leahy controls legislation on this issue.
Mr. Baker and Mr. Shoval agreed to resume their negotiations after Mr. Baker returns from the former Soviet Union on Feb. 18. They also agreed that economic experts from their countries would soon meet to discuss reforms that might strengthen the Israeli economy, which is an additional concern of the Administration's because it relates to Israel's ability to repay the loans.
Testifying before the House Foreign Affairs Committee on Thursday, Mr. Baker said "the likelihood of repayment" was a factor in his negotiations with Mr. Shoval. He acknowledged that Israel had always repaid its loans on time, but that was "because we appropriate the money up here with which to repay ourselves."
The United States grants Israel more than $3 billion a year in aid, more than it gives any other country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ISRAEL; MIDDLE EAST; WEST BANK; GAZA STRIP ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; CREDIT; HOUSING; ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS (OCCUPIED TERRITORIES) REAL ESTATE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); FAMILY (73%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (69%); CHILDREN (64%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; SHOVAL, ZALMAN (AMB) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



271 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Corporate payrolls shrank by 91,000 in January and the unemployment rate remained steady at 7.1 percent only because of a surge in part-time jobs, the Government said, in a report undermining recent signs of economic revival. The report caused disappointment among private analysts and was seized on by Congressional Democrats to point up what they called Administration failings. The figures also increased the chances, economists said, that the Federal Reserve would decide shortly on another round of interest-rate cuts. [Page 35.] 
 Wary consumers paid off more debt than they took on in 1991, causing installment credit to shrink for the first year since 1958, the Fed said. [47.]
 
Companies
General Motors is in the midst of an extensive reorganization of its white-collar work force in North America, Robert C. Stempel, G.M.'s chairman, acknowledged. [35.]
Minolta infringed Honeywell patents for autofocus technology, a jury found, ordering Minolta to pay $96 million in royalties. [35.]
A bill aimed at blocking BankAmerica's acquisition of Security Pacific was passed by a legislative committee in Washington State, which expressed concern that a combination of the two largest banks in the West would hurt consumers. [36.]
Digital Equipment is going to start building its own personal computers, possibly at manufacturing plants in the U.S. [37.]
Continental and Northwest posted improved results but were still caught in the squeeze of low traffic and fare cuts. [37.]
The Clark candy bar may survive under a new owner after seeming doomed when it was owned by a big candy maker. [35.]
Nike, Reebok, L.A. Gear and other sellers of sporting goods who were gathered for an industry trade show said they needed to go beyond their "socks and jocks" image. [35.]
The British subsidiaries of Ford and G.M. announced big job cuts to meet rising competition from Japanese rivals. [37.]
 
International
Germany's already cloudy economic outlook darkened further when Mercedes-Benz said it was scaling down car production plans for this year, bank employees issued a strike ultimatum and other unions increased pressure for larger wage increases. [35.]
Cheaper and more efficient ways to control air pollution by creating a worldwide market in pollution permits are being proposed by a group of experts sponsored by the U.N. [45.]
Hiroshi Yamauchi, who dislikes video games and has no interest in baseball, is president of Nintendo and has offered to buy 60 percent of the Seattle Mariners. A puzzling tale? He says no. [1.]
 
Markets
Stock prices retreated broadly, as investors showed disappointment when the Fed failed to signal a rate cut. The Dow ended at 3,225.40, down 30.19 for the day but up 2.01 for the week. [38.]
Prices of Treasury securities rose and interest rates fell in thin, erratic trading. [38.]
The dollar declined sharply after the release of disappointing employment data. [43.]
Cattle futures prices fell as traders overestimated the size of the Agriculture Dept.'s twice-yearly cattle inventory. [43.]
 
Today's Columns
A way to use genetically engineered microbes to deliver pesticides or nutrients with the precision of a laser-guided missile has been found by Stanford biologists. Edmund L. Andrews: Patents. [36.]
A gathering of Treasury and I.R.S. officials with academics and tax lawyers has its critics. Robert D. Hershey Jr.: Your Taxes. [36.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (83%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 7974 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); NINTENDO CO LTD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (70%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (70%); BASEBALL (70%); PATENTS (68%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (66%); AIR QUALITY (60%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (60%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%); AIR POLLUTION (60%); LAYOFFS (58%); TRADE SHOWS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



272 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Republicans;
Now Buchanan Is Doing More Than Attacking

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Feb. 7

 BODY:
As his campaign to embarrass President Bush in New Hampshire enters the final days, Patrick J. Buchanan is trying the tricky pirouette that challengers to an incumbent President must often perform -- turning from a protest candidate to one seen as having his own program for the nation.
In speeches and in new radio commercials broadcast this week, the conservative commentator moved beyond just criticizing the President to sketching out his own plans for reviving the economy. 
 "Mr. Lincoln said, They have the right to criticize who have a heart to help," Mr. Buchanan said the other night to explain his change in strategy to an audience at Colby-Sawyer College in New London, N.H.
 
Freeze, Cut and Roll Back
 So far, Mr. Buchanan's economic plan is a grab bag of ideas to trim Federal spending that have not been accompanied by a detailed analysis of how much money would be saved or how much new revenue would be generated. Among his proposals are these:
*A freeze on Federal hiring, spending and salaries, including a rollback of pay raises that Congress voted itself over the last few years and a cut of $50,000 to $100,000 in the President's pay. The President now earns $200,000 a year.
*A "deeper" cut in taxes for the middle class than that envisioned by Mr. Bush. In his 1993 budget, the President asked for a $500 tax credit for each child and for tax credits for low-income people to help them pay for health insurance.
*A two-year moratorium on Federal regulations on businesses and a reduction in the number of Federal regulators. "Instead of 74,000 G.M. workers losing their jobs, maybe we should lay off 74,000 regulators in Washington, D.C.," Mr. Buchanan now says in his stump speech.
*Severe, though unspecified, cuts in U.S. foreign aid in order to "repatriate our wealth and resources," Mr. Buchanan says.
 
The Real-Person Approach
 He also says in his radio advertisements that he would use a line-item veto -- striking some items from legislation and approving others -- when dealing with Congressional spending and that he would invite lawmakers to challenge the constitutionality of such vetoes. He also says he would "personally go state to state" to promote term limits on members of Congress.
"There are two themes to the campaign," said Paul Erickson, national political director for the Buchanan campaign. "The first is to hold Bush accountable for raising taxes and the increase in Federal regulations. And the second is to enunciate Pat Buchanan's plan for economic recovery and his vision for leadership."
Mr. Buchanan's new game plan apparently also means presenting the candidate as a real person rather than as just the focal point of voter anger against Mr. Bush. In his new radio advertisements, Mr. Buchanan identifies himself for the first time on the airwaves, and for the first time his voice is heard outlining his plans. In previous commercials a narrator castigated Mr. Bush for his so-called broken promises, and the President was heard stating his oft-repeated declaration: "Read my lips. No new taxes."
The campaign's change in strategy comes at a time when opinion polls indicate that Mr. Buchanan's criticism of the President for breaking his pledge on taxes is not connecting with voters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); VETO (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); TAX LAW (87%); LAYOFFS (86%); TAX RELIEF (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); RADIO ADVERTISING (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); DISMISSALS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



273 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: New Hampshire;
Running for President, Kerrey Charts a Path of His Own

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Feb. 7

 BODY:
Facing a crowd of polite but impassive high school students, Senator Bob Kerrey was talking about the importance of knowing right from wrong. To demonstrate his point, he offered the story of a fat young man named Thompson:
The year is 1967, and Mr. Kerrey and a group of his friends have just completed underwater training for one of the Navy's elite units, the SEALs. As they are about to be inducted into the unit and head for Vietnam, the commander offers the young men a last chance to change their minds. Out of the group of 150, only one, Thompson, stands up and says that he wants out. 
 No explanation is offered for this act. In fact, Mr. Kerrey later acknowledged, he does not know whether Thompson left out of fear or conviction, and he has never seen him since. Nevertheless, he told the students: "It was an act of conscience of a young man saying, 'No, I don't like this.' It was a very powerful political act."
The story -- unsettling, poignant, but ultimately perplexing -- could easily serve as an allegory of Mr. Kerrey's Presidential campaign. For weeks, Mr. Kerrey has resisted advice to offer a clear, bite-sized message, choosing instead to speak in broad and occasionally mystical terms about the need for "fundamental change." In place of a standard speech with obvious applause lines, the Nebraskan has offered an often-changing meditation on the urgency of the nation's situation.
 
Waiting for Deserters?
 While the Senator's almost metaphysical approach to politics does not seem to turn voters off -- a recent survey shows him viewed favorably by half the Democrats here -- so far, at least, it has failed to win him much firm support. The result is that with just 11 days to go before the New Hampshire primary, the fate of Mr. Kerrey's candidacy rests largely with his rivals. His best hope, it seems, is not to win converts for himself but to prepare to receive deserters.
Recent accusations that Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas tried to avoid the draft have provided Mr. Kerrey with a new opening and improved the prospects of his receiving deserters from the Democratic front-runner. But this opportunity is shadowed by his failure to capitalize on the last one.
The earlier chance came 10 days ago, when charges of marital infidelity threatened Mr. Clinton's campaign. Mr. Kerrey not only failed to benefit from these charges, his poll numbers went down even while the Clinton campaign threatened to be engulfed. In the meantime, Paul E. Tsongas, a former Massachusetts senator, solidified his position in front of Mr. Kerrey, and according to many polls now has a 10-point lead over him.
Just what Senator Kerrey should do to bolster his position as the understudy in the primary campaign is a matter of intense debate among his advisers. At the same time that they are contemplating using negative advertising, aides to Mr. Kerrey are worried that efforts to undermine Mr. Clinton could backfire and end up helping another candidate, like Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa or Mr. Tsongas.
 
Who Is 'Electable'?
 Probably the most important thing for Mr. Kerrey to do in the week ahead is to persuade voters that he could convincingly play the lead. To capitalize on Mr. Clinton's travails, analysts say, Mr. Kerrey must show that he has the elusive but seemingly all-important quality: electability.
"If Bill Clinton starts to look less electable and more risky, that ought to be Kerrey's opportunity," said Ann F. Lewis, a Democratic consultant. "The point is to position himself as the stronger alternative."
Today in Boston, the Senator delivered a speech on foreign policy. The speech was well received, but the question remains whether Mr. Kerrey can project the kind of weightiness usually required of a nominee.
Such weightiness clearly does not come easily to Mr. Kerrey, who often seems to regard even his own candidacy with a bemused detachment. Just within the last week, the candidate's engaging but risky candor and his refusal to be scripted have produced several awkward moments.
 
A Line Not Delivered
 One of these moments occurred on Tuesday, when Mr. Kerrey, speaking in South Carolina, delivered what was billed by his aides to be a "major economic address." The written text of the speech contained several coded, yet pointed, gibes at Governor Clinton. "My campaign is not based on slickly packaged proposals, and I haven't worked for years to line up political endorsements," the text said. He never delivered the line.
Another awkward moment occurred last Saturday, when Mr. Kerrey told Newsweek magazine that one of his first television spots had been a "mistake." The spot, which showed him standing on an ice hockey rink talking about trade, was supposed to appeal to voters' anger at the Japanese.
"The reason I say the hockey spot is a mistake is I believe in examining the truth," he said. "And the truth is the hockey spot drove my numbers down and not up."
 
Wait Till It's Over
 The remark appeared to violate an unspoken rule: Never admit to bad judgment during a campaign.
Also in the same interview, Mr. Kerrey suggested he might have to drop out of the race if he did not finish near the top in New Hampshire. While the comment amounted to a statement of the obvious, it violated campaign convention, which demands that a candidate never admit the possibility that he might lose.
Asked about these comments later, Mr. Kerrey said that even if did have to drop out, the campaign would not have been in vain. "I have learned a lot about myself," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Bob Kerrey, left, has to convince voters in the week ahead that he could play the lead well if given a chance. He spoke on Wednesday to students at Memorial High School in Manchester, N.H., in a classroom decorated with old political posters. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW HAMPSHIRE UNITED STATES (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); POLITICS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); 

PERSON: KERREY, BOB (SEN); KOLBERT, ELIZABETH BILL CLINTON (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



274 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Religion Notes

BYLINE: By Ari L. Goldman

 BODY:

Anti-War, Now Anti-Abortion
The Rev. Daniel F. Berrigan has been associated with the anti-war movement for so long that it came as something of a surprise when he was recently arrested outside a Planned Parenthood office in Rochester in an anti-abortion protest. 
 Last week, after he was sentenced to 40 hours of community service for trespass, the 70-year-old Jesuit priest said that he had long been an opponent of abortion but had been "very busy on war questions."
Father Berrigan was among five people found guilty after they demonstrated against a plan to open a new abortion clinic last October. The protest was sponsored by the Faith and Resistance Community, an organization in the Rochester area that supports the "seamless garment" philosophy of the nation's Roman Catholic bishops linking war, capital punishment and abortion on moral grounds.
Among those who testified on Father Berrigan's behalf was Bishop Thomas Gumbleton, an auxiliary of Detroit, who told the court, "For us, the violence of abortion is equivalent to the violence of bombing a city."
Father Berrigan explained in an interview: "I was fairly anxious not to appear as an anti-abortionist but someone who can speak for the bishop's metaphor of the seamless garment of life. Our group wanted to show that we were trying to cherish life across the board. This is not a single-issue group."
Asked if he would participate in future anti-abortion demonstrations, Father Berrigan said he had a busy schedule protesting everything from "Star Wars" research to what he called "the continuing war against children" resulting from international economic sanctions against Iraq.
Father Berrigan was often involved in his protests with his brother, Philip, who was also a priest but has since left the ministry.
 
Unity in Baptism
 Some churches baptize in a pool of water, others by sprinkling or pouring water. Some churches baptize adults, others children. But baptism is the rite of initiation in virtually all of the hundreds of Christian denominations worldwide.
An ecumenical group in Connecticut is seeking to find unity in this diversity of baptisms by promoting a new Ecumenical Baptismal Certificate that it developed with the support of Protestant, Orthodox and Roman Catholic churches. While the baptismal rites may differ, the evidence that it took place will be uniform, symbolizing the notion that all are baptized in one broader Christian community.
"We're not trying to create a superchurch," said the Rev. Stephen J. Sidorak Jr., the executive director of the ecumenical group, the Christian Conference of Connecticut. "The distinctive contributions, emphases and the historical uniqueness of all the churches must be preserved.
"Nevertheless, when we talk about baptism, we should no longer talk about being baptized into the United Methodist Church or the Episcopal Church or the Catholic Church but into the Christian Church."
The group hopes that with the help of the local churches, people will forgo the baptismal certificates printed by their denominations and use the ecumenical version. The group believes that the Ecumenical Baptism Certificate is the first joint baptismal document. The group hopes that it will be emulated by others.
The certificates are available for $11.50 for a box of 25 at Christian bookstores or from the Christian Conference of Connecticut, 60 Lorraine Street, Hartford, Conn., 06105.
 
Religious Food
 Ethnic food is sometimes determined by climate and what is available. But the development of one Jewish food was influenced by religious law. This food is known as cholent (pronounced CHO-lent), and its evolution and many varieties are explored in a new book, "Come for Cholent: The Jewish Stew Cookbook" (Bloch, 1991).
The author, Kay Kantor Pomerantz, explains that traditional Jewish law prohibits the kindling of fire on the Sabbath, from sundown on Friday until the stars come out on Saturday. "It is nevertheless considered a mitzvah -- a good deed -- to eat a hot meal at midday on Saturday," she writes. "Over the centuries, Jews throughout the world have worked out a number of ingenious solutions for this dilemma. All involve food cooking overnight on a very low heat." Cholent, she writes, "is any combination of food that has the stamina to withstand 24 hours of cooking!"
Beans, potatoes and bones are the basic building blocks of cholent, but Mrs. Pomeranz shows that cholent horizons are unlimted with recipes for cholent with lamb, veal, turkey, duck and even vegetarian cholent. There are also Irish, Greek, Italian, Iraqi and chocolate cholents.
Here is a recipe for one:
 
Very Basic Scrumptious Cholent
 
1 1/2 pounds flanken
 1 onion 2 tablespoons oil
 1/2 cup barley
 1/2 cup lima beans
 1/2 cup kidney beans
 6 small red potatoes
 5 or 6 beef marrow bones
 2 cloves garlic
 6 to 7 cups cold water
 2 teaspoon salt
 1 teaspoon ground pepper.
In a saucepan, brown meat and onions in oil. Add barley, beans, potatoes, bones and garlic to pan. Add cold water and bring to boil over high heat. Season with salt and pepper and simmer for 1 hour. Place in oven Friday before sundown at 250 degrees and remove when ready for Saturday lunch.
Yield: 6 servings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ROCHESTER (NY) UNITED STATES (86%); IRAQ (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); ABORTION (93%); RELIGION (91%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (88%); LITIGATION (77%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (77%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); VERDICTS (76%); SENTENCING (76%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); RIOTS (67%); 

PERSON: GOLDMAN, ARI L; BERRIGAN, DANIEL F (REV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



275 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Dow Falls 30.19 as the Fed Stands Pat

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Blue chips led a broad retreat of stock prices yesterday, as investors showed disappointment when the Federal Reserve, after a gloomy employment report, failed to signal any easing of interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average ended the week at 3,225.40, down 30.19 points for the day but up 2.01 for the week.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was heavy, at 231 million shares, down from 242 million on Thursday, as the Big Board composite declined 1.31 points, to 227.65, and declining issues forged ahead of gainers by 977 to 702. 
 "A weaker bond market and the Fed's decision to delay any easing translated to weakness in utilities, transportation stocks and large industrials," said Robert H. Stovall, president of Stovall/21st Advisers Inc., a money management firm. He added that he believed the Fed would wait till after the Treasury's quarterly refunding next week before making any further move to lower interest rates.
 
Declines on Other Indexes
 The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks fell 2.73, to 411.09, as the American Stock Exchange index slipped 0.84, to 415.41. Over-the-counter trading was also active, but the declines were not as severe. The Nasdaq index fell by 2.72, to 634.95, while the Russell 2,000 slipped to 210.08, down 0.18.
"The failure of the Fed to give a signal of further easing swung the market around yesterday," said Gene J. Seagle, director of technical research at Gruntal & Company, "and that encouraged program selling, which exacerbated the downside."
According to Philip H. Smyth, an analyst with Birinyi Associates, a Wall Street research firm that tracks program trading, it was one of the busiest days thus far this year for programs. The firm tracked 13 programs, 11 of which were sell, with a combined effect of pulling the Dow down 64.23.
Mr. Smyth said the market had been anticipating a 34,000 gain in jobs. But after the report of a surprisingly sharp drop of 91,000 jobs, traders said, blue-chip issues moved higher in early trading and the broader market extended its gains in anticipation that the Fed would move to ease rates further.
But the Fed failed to make the gesture at its normal time of intervention, causing bond prices to collapse. Stocks followed, with the decline magnified by program selling.
Elsewhere in the market, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines traded lower in Big Board activity, as some dealers cited KLM's disappointing load factor of 65.3 percent for January, a shade lower than the period a year ago during the gulf war. The stock was down 5/8 at 21 1/2.
 
Two Hotel Stocks Off
 On expectations that the hotel industry slump will continue through 1992, Margo Vignola, an analyst at Salomon Brothers, lowered her rating on both Hilton Hotels and Marriott to a hold from a buy. Traders said she noted that there were still too many hotel rooms in this country and that discounting was running rampant. Marriott fell 7/8, to 18, but Hilton was up 3/4, to 44 1/8.
Grenada Sunburst Systems was sharply lower after the company said its previously announced merger talks with First Tennessee National had been terminated and were not expected to resume. Grenada fell 4 3/4, to 15 1/2, while First Tennessee gained 2 1/8, to 46 3/8.
Amid concern that efforts by the Washington State Legislature to limit the market share of bank holding companies could delay or make changes in the proposed merger of Security Pacific and BankAmerica, the share prices of both companies declined. Security Pacific was down 1 1/2, to 33, while BankAmerica was off 1/4, to 40 3/8.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AF (PAR) (51%); AF (AMS) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE GRUNTAL & CO LLC (66%); GRUNTAL & CO INC (66%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); NYSE MKT LLC (55%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (51%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); LODGING (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); AIRLINES (63%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ROBERT H STOVALL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



276 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Continental and Northwest Report Improved Results

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
Two of the nation's leading airlines showed improved results for the fourth quarter of last year but were still caught in the squeeze of low traffic and fare cuts.
Continental Airline Holdings Inc. said that better business conditions helped it earn $4.4 million, or 3 cents a share, compared with a loss of $2.2 billion in the corresponding 1990 quarter, when the company filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code. 
 And the Northwest Airlines operations of NWA Inc. reported a loss of $79.2 million in the fourth quarter, compared with a loss of $121.4 milion in the fourth quarter of 1990.
Following are the details of the companies' results:
 
Continental
 Continental's quarterly results included the proceeds from the sale of the carrier's Seattle-to-Tokyo route for $145 million, while the results for the 1990 period included nonrecurring charges of $1.8 billion.
The carrier filed a reorganization plan on Thursday under which its unsecured creditors agreed to exchange most of the company's debt for stock and to lower Continental's interest costs.
Analysts were encouraged by the plan and said that the carrier's chance of emerging from bankruptcy had improved.
Revenues for the quarter totaled $1.38 billion, the same as in the 1990 period.
Although the holding company showed a profit, its main unit, Continental Airlines, showed an operating loss of $56.7 million for the fourth quarter. That, however, was much smaller than the operating loss of $299.6 million in the 1990 quarter.
"This positive trend we are seeing is encouraging and should help us cement our reorganization," said Robert R. Ferguson 3d, the chief executive.
For the entire year, the parent company had a loss of $305.7 million on revenues of $5.55 billion. That compares with a 1990 loss of $2.34 billion on revenues of $6.23 billion.
Continental's shares rose 18.75 cents a share today on the American Stock Exchange, closing at 56.25 cents each.
 
Northwest
 At Northwest Airlines, revenue for the fourth quarter totaled $1.9 billion, up 3.8 percent from $1.83 billion in the 1990 quarter.
NWA, the parent company, showed a fourth-quarter loss of $164.3 million, down from $211.8 milion in the 1990 period. The parent company bears the interest cost of a debt that was greatly increased when it took over the airline several years ago. The parent company, which is privately held, did not release revenue figures.
"It's no secret that the effects of war and recession in 1991 were the principal causes of the poor financial results reported throughout the airline industry," said John Dasburg, president and chief executive.
For all of last year, Northwest Airlines had a net loss of $3.1 million on revenues of $7.53 billion. That compares with a 1990 loss of $10.4 million on revenues of $7.26 billion.
The parent company had a net loss last year of $316.9 million, compared with a loss of $301.2 million in 1990.
"If 1991 has taught us anything," Mr. Dasburg added, "it is that the industry simply cannot continue to price its product below cost. Restoring rational pricing, especially in our key Pacific market, will be a top priority for Northwest in 1992."
He added that Northwest expects to expand its capacity by about 11 percent in the coming year and will take delivery of 20 new Airbus A320 advanced-technology aircraft.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (96%); DAL (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: CONTINENTAL AIRLINES HOLDINGS INC; NWA INC UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (96%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (85%); NWA INC (71%); NYSE MKT LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONTINENTAL AIRLINES HOLDINGS INC; NWA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS AIRLINES (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (76%); TRENDS (75%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS JOHN H DASBURG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



277 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Securities Rise in Erratic Session

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities rose and interest rates fell in thin, erratic trading yesterday, as traders positioned themselves for another cut in interest rates by the Federal Reserve Board.
After the Labor Department released weak employment data for January, market participants were expecting the Fed to move soon to lower interest rates. 
 The initial reaction in the market to the news that non-farm payroll employment fell by 91,000 last month and that the manufacturing workweek dropped sharply was uniformly positive, and prices across the maturity spectrum moved higher.
But those anticipating a speedy move by the Fed were disappointed because the central bank sent no such signal when it conducted its late-morning open market operations.
The gains recorded early in the session began to erode after it became clear the Fed would not ease policy immediately. But the way prices fell defied the strange logic that normally governs trading patterns.
"We weren't surprised that the Fed didn't move," one government securities trader said. "But the market is fixated on that. And when they don't move when the market thinks they might, it causes everything to be for sale."
While prices of most securities fell off their highs, bond prices, which had been up by nearly 3/4 point early in the day, were hit the hardest. Prices of shorter-term notes, which would have benefited most had the Fed moved to ease policy quickly, barely budged.
Dealers said a lack of interest from retail investors forced bond prices down from their highs. With the Treasury scheduled to auction $10 billion worth of bonds on Thursday, the final leg of its quarterly refunding auctions, there are few compelling reasons for clients to buy long-term issues now, the dealers said.
By late in the day, the Treasury's 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered at a price of 10226/32 , up 3/32 , to yield 7.75 percent, compared with 7.76 percent late Thursday and 7.75 percent on Jan. 31. Shortly after the employment data were released, the price of the benchmark issue rose to a high of 103 5/8.
Among outstanding Treasury note issues, the 7.50 percent 10-year notes were offered at 1029/32 in late trading, up a 1/4 point, to yield 7.16 percent. Prices of the 6.25 percent five-year notes rose by 5/32 , to 9918/32 , to yield 6.35 percent. And the 4 7/8 percent two-year notes were offered at 9930/32 , up 9/32 , to yield 4.90 percent.
 
Short-Term Rates Fall
 Short-term Treasury bill rates fell sharply, as traders remained hopeful the Fed would soon lower its target on the overnight Federal funds rate from its current level of 4 percent.
In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 3.72 percent, down 8 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates fell by 11 basis points, to a late offered rate of 3.75 percent. And one-year bill rates fell by 10 basis points, to a late offered rate of 3.87 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



278 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: 7.1% Rate for Jobless Unchanged

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7

 BODY:
In a report undermining recent signs of economic revival, the Government said today that business payrolls shrank by 91,000 in January and that the unemployment rate remained steady at 7.1 percent only because of a surge in part-time jobs.
The report on labor market conditions was the first comprehensive gauge of economic performance in 1992 and, in an election year, the most politically sensitive of reports. It caused disappointment among private analysts and was seized upon by Congressional Democrats to point up what they saw as Administration failings. 
 The figures also increased the chances, economists said, that the Federal Reserve would shortly decide on another round of interest-rate cuts. The Fed's chairman, Alan Greenspan, said earlier this week that further rate cuts might be necessary "insurance" for economic recovery.
 
Dismay in Markets
 The Fed's failure to ease in the immediate wake of the report, however, dismayed the stock and bond markets. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 30.19 points, to close at 3,225.40, and the benchmark 30-year bond, which had risen on the report in apparent hopes of a rate cut, later fell back when none occurred. [Page 38.]
While today's unemployment report was not unrelievedly bleak, it reflected pronounced weakness last month, prompting some analysts to lower already meager expectations for the immediate future.
"The consensus has to move now to a real change in gross domestic product that's down rather than up" for the first quarter, said Walter M. Cadette, an economist at the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company. While Morgan has been more pessimistic than many forecasters of late, other analysts also found little ground for optimism.
"These are weak numbers," Richard B. Berner, an economist at Salomon Brothers, said. "They point to continued stagnation and downside risk for the economy."
 
'On Thin Ice'
 On Capitol Hill, Senator Lloyd Bentsen, the Texas Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said the January job figures portrayed an economy "skating on thin ice" and estimated that the odds of renewed contraction this year had risen to 50-50.
Saying prompt action was required to turn the economy around, Senator Bentsen announced that his committee would begin consideration Feb. 25 of growth measures that he said "will help put Americans back to work and our economy back in the race."
President Bush's chief economic adviser, Michael J. Boskin, told the House Budget Committee today that he did not believe the new numbers indicated a renewed downturn. But, he conceded, "it is unlikely there will be an instant turnaround in the economy in the next month or two."
Today President Bush signed legislation extending unemployment benefits for a second time, this time by 13 weeks. It has been an issue with great political appeal in this election year and was approved overwhelmingly by Congress on Tuesday.
Among the grim numbers, the jobless report today did show a 389,000 rise in jobs, as measured by the Labor Department's survey of households, which reversed a three-month decline. Some analysts dismissed this as a statistical aberration at odds with the 91,000 job decline picked up in the separate payroll survey, but others regarded the development as a bright spot in the report.
 
Where It Would Start
 Michael P. Niemira of the Mitsubishi Bank, for example, said that even though the increase was entirely in part-time jobs, that is where any improvement in the market would show up first.
Hiring part-timers amounts to "testing the waters," he said, adding that if the latest reading is correct "it is possible to see an upward revision to the January payroll data or a catch-up jump in February."
The unemployment rate itself is considered a "lagging" indicator since it frequently continues to rise even after recovery is well under way. This is because improved business activity induces many workers who dropped out of the job market to begin to look again, thereby restoring them statistically to the work force. Not all of them, however, are immediately successful in finding new jobs.
Today's payroll survey also showed service-job gains of 8,000 in finance and 17,000 in transportation.
But there were many more negatives in the report, including a drop of 52,000 in factory payrolls, an unexpected drop of 51,000 in retail trade and an unusually big decline of 39,000 in business services. Job growth in health services, which during 1991 gained an average of almost 40,000 a month, slowed in January to 17,000.
 
Workweek Loses Minutes
 In addition, the length of the average workweek fell significantly, by 12 minutes for private payrolls as a whole, to 34.3 hours, and by 18 minutes for factories.
And the household survey, on which the official unemployment rate is based, also showed a rise of three-tenths of a point, to 6.9 percent, in the jobless rate for adult men. The rate for Hispanic and black workers also rose sharply, to 11.3 percent from 9.7 for Hispanic workers, and to 13.7 percent from 12.7 percent for black workers. The rate for black men, at 13.4 percent, was the highest level since the recession began in July 1990, William G. Barron Jr., the Deputy Commissioner of Labor Statistics, said.
Still other weakness was reflected in the lengthening of jobless spells, with the number of people out of work for 15 weeks or more rising by 216,000, to 3,059,000. The average duration of joblessness climbed to 16.4 weeks from 15.3, while the median duration climbed to 8.1 weeks from 7.8.
Some recent figures and anecdotal evidence since the January employment survey was conducted three weeks ago suggest that the economy might finally have begun to rebound. Sales of chain stores have risen (although from depressed levels a year earlier), exports remain strong and many automobile dealers and real estate agents are reporting sizable increases in both buyers and "lookers."
 
No Sign of Pickup
 But while uncertainty remained, today's figures tended to cast doubt on near-term improvement. Maria Ramirez, head of a capital-market consulting firm, said she found no sign of a pickup and was discouraged by the continuing stream of companies announcing layoffs.
Forecasters had generally expected a modest rise in payroll jobs last month instead of the 91,000 drop. And a revision in the December figure slashed an initially reported 31,000 gain to just 3,000. Before adjustment for recurring seasonal variation, payrolls fell a thumping 2,337,000.
Among the 11 biggest states, Florida posted the biggest change in its jobless rate, which rose 1.2 points, to 8.7 percent. The rate for Illinois fell nine-tenths of a point.
For New York, the rate rose to 8.4 percent from 8 percent, but New Jersey saw a decline of the same amount -- to 6.8 percent from 7.2. In New York City, the jobless rate was 10.4 percent last month, up from 9.3 percent in December and 10.2 percent in November, according to the Department's Middle Atlantic regional office. State and local figures gyrate far more than national ones because of smaller samples, officials say.
Regionally, unadjusted figures show the jobless rate rose 1.3 points in the South, 1.1 points in the West, 1 point in the Northeast and nine-tenths of a point in the Midwest.
 
Retail Is Disappointment
 A chief disappointment in the national figures was retail trade, where low holiday-season hiring meant there were relatively few people to leave temporary jobs in January. But the report still showed a big decline, which brought the total number of lost jobs in retailing to about 550,000 since the recession began.
Two-thirds of the decline in business payrolls was in just two industries, transportation equipment and industrial machinery, the figures also showed. The index of aggregate weekly hours fell a point, to 120.9, following two straght increases, indicating that industrial output would show a decline for the month when this figure is reported next Friday.
The percentage of all industries reporting increases in hiring edged up to 45.1 last month but for manufacturing this percentage fell to 38.8 from 43.2.
The labor force rose by 427,000 last month, with 389,000 of these finding jobs of some sort -- one needs to work just one hour a week to be considered employed -- and 38,000 joined the ranks of the jobless. A total of 8,929,000 Americans are now out of work, 2 1/2 million more than when the recession began and the most since 1984.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Out of Work," tracks seasonally adjusted figures, Jan. 1991-Jan. 1992 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 47)
 
Table: "The Labor Picture," lists civilian and military employment and civilian unemployment figures for October, November and December of 1991 and Jan. 1992; lists unemployment rates for selected states, Jan. 1992 and Dec. 1991 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 47)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (66%); JPM (LSE) (66%); 8634 (TSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (66%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; CREDIT US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); APPROVALS (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEN); BOSKIN, MICHAEL J GEORGE W BUSH (78%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



279 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
CROWN HEIGHTS: THE DAY AFTER
The day after the murder of a Hasidic woman sent hundreds of Jewish demonstrators on an angry protest march through the streets of Crown Heights, city officials, black and Jewish community leaders and the police tried to prevent the death from escalating into the kind of racial conflagration that erupted last summer. Throughout the day, the streets in the frayed neighborhood stayed calm, although it was also clear that racial tension still simmered beneath the surface. Pages 1 and 24.
 
INVESTIGATING A PROSECUTOR
The Justice Department is investigating allegations that a Federal prosecutor and two Internal Revenue Service agents systematically and illegally singled out homosexuals for arrest on drug charges, according to the United States Attorney in Manhattan. Page 25.
 
MEDICAID CUTS PROTESTED
Nearly 20,000 hospital workers and their supporters, including John Cardinal O'Connor, rallied in protest against a proposal by Governor Cuomo that would cut more than $1 billion in Medicaid payments to hospitals. The proposed cuts, the speakers said, would be "Draconian" and "unfair." Page 25.
 
EVANESCENT ART
The chainsaws were buzzing, the planers were planing away the rough spots, the measuring tapes were measuring. Finally, after a week of mishaps, 35 Chinese ice sculptors were stacking and shaping their giant see-through bricks into two giant, melting phoenixes. Page 25.
 
 Businessman says he sent mysterious $50,000 to Dinkins's campaign. Page 27.
 
REGION
 
A RITE OF POLITICS
 
In a political rite unique to New Jersey, about 1,400 politicians, business people and lobbyists opened the state's political season Thursday by riding a train from Newark to Washington, then joining the state's Congressional delegation for dinner. To the travelers, who spend most of the trip on their feet, prowling the crowded aisles, shaking hands and trying to wangle favors, the "walk to Washington" has become indispensable. Page 26.
 
TESTIMONY ENDS IN TEANECK TRIAL
The testimony in the trial of Gary Spath, a white Teaneck police officer accused of killing a black teen-ager, ended abruptly, after the state dropped plans to continue attacking the defense account of the shooting. Page 26.
 
DIGGING IN AT CITY HALL
One state judge ordered Mayor Gerald McCann of Jersey City, who has been convicted of fraud and tax evasion, to vacate his office, but another granted him a temporary reprieve. Page 26.
 
A HYBRID WELFARE PLAN
The Connecticut welfare law proposed this week by Governor Weicker makes sharp distinctions between poor single parents with children, who would by and large be protected, and the growing numbers of impoverished single men and women, many of whom might simply be thrown out cold. Local officials and social services experts said that against the backdrop of welfare legislation being considered across the country, Mr. Weicker's proposals are very much a hybrid -- one part social engineering, one part plain old penny-pinching. Page 26.
 
Neediest Cases 26
 
About New York 25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); MEDICAID (90%); MURDER (90%); CITIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (88%); TESTIMONY (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); RELIGION (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX FRAUD (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); LITIGATION (75%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX AUTHORITIES (75%); LOBBYING (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); MAYORS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); JUDGES (69%); HOSPITALS (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); CHILDREN (64%); TRAINS (64%); PARENTS (63%); SINGLE PARENTS (60%); 

PERSON: CARDINAL JOHN O'CONNOR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



280 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Unlikely Bidder for U.S. Pastime

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KYOTO, Japan, Feb. 5

 BODY:
Perhaps the most striking fact about Hiroshi Yamauchi, the president of the Nintendo Company Ltd., is that he cannot bear to play video games. "I really don't understand them," he said. The second most striking fact about Mr. Yamauchi, the first Japanese to bid for a controlling interest in an American major league baseball team, is that he has lived for 64 years in a nation obsessed with baseball and has never once gone to a game.
"Let me put it this way," Mr. Yamauchi said the other day in a 90-minute conversation in his office here, "Baseball, well, baseball has never really interested me."
 
 
In an Unlikely Position
 Such studied detachment, friends say, is characteristic of a man who is Japan's most unlikely high-tech success story, as well as an unlikely figure to be at the center of an international dispute over baseball ownership. 
 Mr. Yamauchi professed not to understand why his offer to buy 60 percent of the Seattle Mariners for $75 million, which would allow it to remain in Seattle, is the subject of such hot debate. To him, it is an attempt to help a city where Nintendo's American subsidiary employs more than 1,400 people and that his daughter, son-in-law and grandchildren have adopted as their home.
Seattle is also where he says he hopes Nintendo will eventually establish its world headquarters -- further complicating the question of what would constitute "foreign" ownership of an American team. The only question, he said, "is whether the Japanese Government will let me" move the company.
Americans did not become aware of Nintendo until the mid-1980's, as characters like the irrepressible "Super Mario Brothers" began dancing across home television screens. But in Japan, Nintendo is a name as old as some of Kyoto's majestic wooden temples.
 
 
Sold Playing Cards
 Shortly after the Meiji restoration 130 years ago, the start of modern, industrialized Japan, Mr. Yamauchi's ancestors began selling "karuta cards," a playing-card game based on seasonal flowers that was once popular among the Japanese elite. (It is still popular, but mostly as a gambling game played by Japanese gangsters.)
Mr. Yamauchi took over the company four decades ago, soon after Japan's defeat in World War II, and imagined that life would be much as it had been for his parents: a steady, not very flashy life selling playing cards.
"The truth is, I wasn't really thinking about entering new businesses," he said. But sales of karuta cards began to plummet, and Mr. Yamauchi faced an uncomfortable choice: Find a new business for Nintendo, or go out of business entirely.
Largely out of what he terms "a lack of imagination," he steered Nintendo into other games: board games, guns that shoot beams of light, baseball pitching machines and eventually arcade games. It was the last of these that gave birth to its huge video-game business.
But it is baseball -- rather than the alien-zapping games he has sold to one out of three American homes -- that has made Mr. Yamauchi the latest focus of emotionally charged debate about Japanese influence in America. Until this year, when his 880-person parent company is expected to make more money than giant Hitachi Ltd., Mr. Yamauchi prided himself in keeping out of the limelight. That ended when he found himself the center of criticism not only in the United States but also in Japan, where his bid has prompted uncomfortable questions about the openness of the Japanese sports world.
Would an American investor be allowed to buy into a "stable" of sumo wrestlers, controlling part of a sport that resonates deeply in the national psyche, like baseball in America. Or would an American company operating here be able to buy a Japanese baseball team, something no Americans have attempted?
"I imagine there are lot of opinions on this matter in the United States, but that is not of concern to me," Mr. Yamauchi said. "I thought about whether I could do a service to Seattle, and what others think about it, that is their business. If the people of America decided I cannot respond that way, it cannot be helped and I have to accept it."
 
 
Prospects Have Improved
 But in the last few days, Mr. Yamauchi's prospects seemed to improve. The other day, Fay Vincent, the baseball commissioner, seemed to be wavering a bit because control of the team would rest with American investors including Mr. Yamauchi's son-in-law, Minoru Arakawa, who runs Nintendo's American subsidiary and is expected to inherit the entire business soon. That may ultimately satisfy the letter of the policy. But in the end, of course, the money is Mr. Yamauchi's.
"Of course it is my money, and I'm glad I could pay it," he said. "But this is not business. What do I know about running a baseball team?"
A few years ago, Mr. Yamauchi could have said the same about running a video-game company. But he succeeded by pursuing a strategy that seems unlike those of other consumer electronics giants in Japan.
 
 
A Masterful Strategy
 Nintendo manufactures nothing itself. It farms out production of its video-game machines and other equipment to smaller suppliers throughout Japan, leaving the company with a relatively tiny staff and low overhead.
With no worries about building plants and cutting costs, Mr. Yamauchi focused on strategy. Nintendo had already missed the first wave of the American video-game craze, the one that marked the rise and fall of the Atari division of Warner Communications. Sitting in Kyoto, Mr. Yamauchi diagnosed the problem: Atari and others had lost control of the video-game software market, allowing poor-quality games to flood the market, undercutting prices and the reputation of the game systems.
His solution was quintessentially Japanese. Nintendo designed a system that could "lock out" software that did not use a patented computer chip. The company approved only a handful of programs every year -- apart from those designed by Nintendo's small staff of game engineers -- and assured that prices and profit margins stayed high.
 
 
Angered Software Makers
 It is a strategy that has made Nintendo phenomenally profitable: its sales tripled between 1987 and 1991, to $3.34 billion, and its net income rose to half a billion dollars. Along the way, Nintendo became intensely disliked on the software side of the game business. "We are at their mercy," an official of a software subsidiary of Atari told a Congressional committee nearly two years ago. "They can make or break any of us overnight."
Now Nintendo faces new challenges, chiefly from Sega, a company offering a new generation of 16-bit video game machines, allowing richer, more detailed and three-dimensional games. Nintendo's own 16-bit machine was delayed and made available in America in time for the worst Christmas selling season in years. The company is hoping for better timing in its next major release, video games on CD-ROM's, compact disks that contain video and data instead of music.
 
 
Planned In-Home Stock Trading
 Mr. Yamauchi has been hoping, as his career at Nintendo winds down, to be known for Nintendo's new drives into home stock-market trading -- video games with higher stakes -- and for the research the company sponsors at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology on using video games as teaching tools.
More likely, he will be known for the battle he did not seek over the Mariners. Mr. Yamauchi said that when he made the bid, he thought he was returning a favor to the United States, "who helped us become such an economic power."
And what about the next logical step -- a Nintendo team for Japan, where many companies own professional baseball teams. After all, fans flock to watch the Nippon Ham Fighters, owned by a giant pork packager, and to cheer the perennial champions, the Yomiuri Giants, which belong to Yomiuri Shimbun, one of Japan's biggest newspapers. Wouldn't the Kyoto Super Marios -- perhaps with off-season help from Seattle -- be a sure-fire success?
Mr. Yamauchi grimaced. "I never even thought about a baseball team in Japan," he said. "Remember, I don't really like baseball."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hiroshi Yamauchi (David E. Sanger/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (96%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); KINKI, JAPAN (58%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SEATTLE MARINERS; NINTENDO CO LTD NINTENDO CO LTD (96%); SEATTLE MARINERS (82%); SEATTLE MARINERS (82%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE MARINERS; NINTENDO CO LTD SEATTLE MARINERS (82%); SEATTLE MARINERS (82%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SEATTLE (WASH); JAPAN JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); KINKI, JAPAN (58%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL COMPUTER GAMES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); CARD GAMES (89%); CHILDREN (78%); BOARD GAMES (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: YAMAUCHI, HIROSHI; SANGER, DAVID E HIROSHI YAMAUCHI (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



281 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: Japan Studies U.S. Workers

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 7

 BODY:
The Japan Labor Ministry said today that by some measures American workers outproduce their Japanese counterparts.
The ministry divided the 1989 gross domestic product of each country by the number of workers in each country and found that American workers produce 1.62 times more than the Japanese, when the value of their work is calculated according to purchasing power. 
 According to the Labor Ministry, Americans surpassed the Japanese in terms of productivity per hour, partly because of the longer hours Japanese workers put in -- 42.3 hours a week in 1990 compared with 38.2 hours for United States workers.
But when productivity is calculated without considering purchasing power, using only the currency exchange rate to compare national output, American workers only produced 1.09 times as much as their Japanese counterparts, it said.
Yasuo Kuwashima, a ministry official, said the study was done at the request of Labor Minister Tetsuo Kondo, who recommended that such figures be released following remarks by Japanese politicians about American work habits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (96%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: JAPAN LABOR MINISTRY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: JAPAN LABOR MINISTRY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (96%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; PRODUCTIVITY LABOR DEPARTMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); CURRENCIES (52%); EXCHANGE RATES (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



282 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Weicker Divides the Poor by Family Size

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Feb. 7

 BODY:
The welfare law proposed this week by Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. makes sharp distinctions between poor single parents with children, who would by and large be protected, and the growing numbers of impoverished single men and women, many of whom might simply be thrown out.
Local officials and social services experts said that against the backdrop of welfare legislation being considered across the country, Mr. Weicker's proposals are very much a hybrid -- one part social engineering, one part plain old penny-pinching. 
 Like the law recently signed by Gov. Jim Florio in New Jersey, for example, the Connecticut plan seeks to modify the behavior of welfare recipients by tightening requirements -- that children be inoculated and enrolled in school, for example. No savings would result from those changes, and Connecticut would continue to have some of the most generous benefits in the nation for families with dependent children, ranging up to $680 a month in lower Fairfield County -- second only to Alaska.
But the other half of the Governor's welfare proposal, by contrast -- the aid for single individuals, called general assistance -- goes to the heart of the budget stress that has rocked Connecticut over the last year. There, the state would exact $107 million in cuts -- almost 10 percent of the total $1.1 billion in spending reductions outlined in Mr. Weicker's proposed budget.
 
'Employability' Standard
 The general assistance restrictions, similar to laws enacted last year in Michigan, Illinois and Ohio, would reduce aid or eliminate it entirely for perhaps two-thirds of the 35,000 people now enrolled in the program, according to estimates by the State Department of Income Maintenance.
In addition, a person deemed "employable" could receive aid for only 6 months out of any 12-month period.
"They'll become street people, I guess," said Norma E. Albright, the director of welfare for the City of New London, where the general assistance rolls have doubled in the recession. "There are no jobs here for them."
Neither the employability standard nor the six-month restriction is in the current law. Current rates of aid also vary widely across the state, and those rates would be standardized. For thousands of people, that would mean a cut.
In New Haven, for example, the city's Director of Welfare, Raymond M. Lopes, said the 4,800 people on general assistance receive up to $439 a month in combined food, personal and shelter allowances. That would fall to $356 a month under the Governor's plan, he said. In addition, Mr. Lopes estimated that one-half to two-thirds of the recipients have been on the program for six months or longer already. He said he had no idea what would become of them if the state were to deem them "employable."
"The changes come at the worst possible time," Mr. Lopes said. "There are no jobs in the area."
 
'Jobs and Children'
 Mr. Weicker, a former Republican who was elected in 1990 as a third-party independent, has consistently identified the priorities of his administration as "jobs and children." And in his budget speech before the General Assembly on Wednesday, that is how he presented his welfare plans.
The changes in general assistance, he argued, would tie the program more directly to the world of private employment because every recipient would be keenly aware from the start that help would not extend forever.
The changes in the family aid program, on the other hand, he termed an investment in the future. By strengthening the requirements to keep children in school, the cycle of welfare dependence could be broken, he said.
Officials at the welfare agency said the type of sanctions included in the New Jersey law, which allows outright cuts in family aid if a parent does not proceed toward getting a job, were deliberately avoided because the Governor saw such penalties as hurting children.
For the general assistance program, welfare experts said that the state's main problem would be establishing the new standards and definitions: Who is employable and who is not?
In Michigan, where a finding of employability now permits cutting off state aid, news reports have regularly identified bureaucratic blunders in which even hospitalized stroke victims have been denied benefits because a chart somewhere in the system listed them as fit for work.
 
Closing the Window
 "They're hard decisions to make, especially when the message coming down from the top is, 'We don't want to spend money,' " said Henry A. Freedman, director of the Center on Social Welfare Policy and Law, a New York-based group.
Mr. Freedman said another tough moment could come for Connecticut when the first six-month window expires. In Ohio, for example, which imposed a six-months-and-out standard last year, the first cutoff date will come on April 1, when 130,000 people could see benefits terminated. In Illinois, Mr. Freedman said, the state adopted a nine-month window for this year, and six months beginning next year. About 85,000 people will be caught by that state's April 1 cutoff.
Officials in Connecticut estimate that 42 percent of the 35,000 people on general assistance are employable. Of the total roster, 59 percent are men, and 30 percent have substance-abuse problems. The average age is 35 and the average level of education is 10th grade. Some 44 percent are black, 31 percent are Hispanic and 24 percent are white.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (57%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (57%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); PARENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: WEICKER, LOWELL P JR (GOV); JOHNSON, KIRK LOWELL P WEICKER JR (86%); RAYMOND M LOPES (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



283 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Turn Around the Clark Bar

BYLINE: By ERIC N. BERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH

 BODY:
Nine months ago, the Clark candy bar, a rich concoction of peanut butter, taffy and milk chocolate, seemed doomed. A favorite in the Midwest and parts of the East, the Clark bar never had a national presence and its owner wanted to close its factory here.
That's when Michael P. Carlow, a 40-year-old Pittsburgh businessman who has made money in steel, glass, cement and the turnaround of Iron City beer, bought the D. L. Clark Company from Leaf Inc., the Chicago candy conglomerate. Now, not only is the Clark bar still being produced and packaged in its eye-catching red-and-blue wrapper, there are some early signs that Mr. Carlow may succeed where a candy giant stumbled. 
 "All the Clark bar needs is special attention, and it will do fine, Mr. Carlow said in an interview here recently. "There is, after all, a certain magic about candy."
Mr. Carlow has already won rent concessions from the State of Pennsylvania, which owns Clark's modern candy factory here; he is trying to get the crucial support of D. L. Clark's candy brokers, who have the power to decide whether Clark bars appear in stores and vending machines, and he has begun exploring how the company's fixed costs can be trimmed to make it easier to turn a profit. One possibility: have Clark employees share more of the costs of their health benefits.
Although Mr. Carlow will not disclose the terms of his purchase, or the financial performance of his private company, he predicts that he can make money if he can sell 50 million Clark bars a year. Under a big company with big costs like Leaf, D. L. Clark needed to exceed that level to break into the black, which under Leaf it never managed to do regularly. In its last year with Leaf, Clark made 35 million bars, only a third of its production capacity.
But candy experts say Mr. Carlow's Clark bar rescue could fail. While a few smaller candy brands have prospered in recent years, like Goldenberg's Peanut Chews, which are made in Philadelphia, and the Annabelle Candy Company's Big Hunk and Look bars, which are made in Hayward, Calif., many small confectioners have vanished, victims of the hard economics of the candy business.
"It's not easy being the little guy in a world dominated by giants," said John M. McMillin, the candy industry analyst at Prudential Securities Inc. "To survive, Carlow will have to be twice as good as Mars and Nestle."
The chocolate candy bar business in America is a classic oligopoly. Three players -- Hershey, M&M/ Mars and Nestle -- control 90 percent of the industry's $5.2 billion in annual sales. Leaf, whose brands include Whoppers, Milk Duds and Jolly Rancher candies, probably has another 5 percent. And while there continue to be a healthy number of regional chocolates, the bar business belongs to the big national brands like Mars's Snickers and Milky Way; Nestle's Baby Ruth, and Hershey's milk chocolate bar and its Reese's peanut butter cups.
 
Gaining Shelf Space
 This huge concentration and huge volumes -- there are roughly 15 regular-sized Snicker bars sold for every Clark bar -- enable big candy makers to gobble up crucial shelf space at checkout stands in groceries, drugstores, convenience stores and the other places where most candy is sold. Big companies can also afford large sales forces that help move candy to retailers.
"The big guys are in the stores every week," noted Janette Kitt, a leading industry consultant based in Sparta, N.J. "They are constantly able to not only obtain distribution but to maintain it."
Big-selling national brands also can afford fat promotional budgets that often amount to tens of millions of dollars. They can offer discount coupons to consumers, and provide retailers with special promotions and services, like the "midget" sizes of candy for Halloween. They can also afford to give away candy to fatten retailers' profits.
That makes Clark a midget among giants, with distinct disadvantages. Clark cannot afford to spend millions of dollars on anything; its sales last year were estimated at $13 million. It has to rely on independent distributors and wholesalers to sell its candy to retailers who usually do not want to bother with a low-volume brand. Although per-capita candy consumption, at 20 pounds a year, is nearly at a record in the United States, the dollar volume of candy sold in this country has shrunk in recent years after adjusting for inflation.
"It's very simple," said Leonard G. Teitelbaum, the candy industry analyst at Merrill Lynch. "If you've got a leading market share and you can show the supermarket guy that your product sells, the buyer will put your product out there."
 
Some Positive Factors

 
 But Mr. Carlow does not face impossible odds. His first job, industry experts say, will be to convince the brokers who distribute the Clark bar that the bar has the potential to succeed over the long term. Partly, they say, this will be an exercise in persuasion, but Mr. Carlow could end up having to pay his brokers more than the standard 5 percent commission.
"Remember, these are the same brokers who didn't do much with the Clark bar under Leaf," said Stuart Scherr, the president of L&S Sales, a big candy broker based in San Francisco.
At one time, Leaf poured money into Clark by trying to make it a national brand. But "we just could not break into the menu of consumers outside the Midwest," said James Hanlon, president of Leaf.
Mr. Carlow has met wth most of Clark's wholesalers but he concedes that he still has to whip up excitement for the 106-year-old bar. Over the years, Clark bars reached a peak of 180 million bars annually, but the company was bought and sold so many times that it fell into neglect as sales waned. Now, Mr. Carlow says, "it is still being viewed as a stepchild."
One of Mr. Carlow's intentions is to heighten Clark's visibility. He plans to spend 5 percent of sales on marketing and advertising, up from 1.5 percent. One early effort will be in Pittsburgh, where Clark bars have been a hit in the past and Mr. Carlow hopes some promotional efforts will pay off quickly. Clark will sponsor sports events here like hockey games and tennis matches, and do promotional activities aimed at young people in nearby regions of Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia. Miniature Clark bars were recently given away to 15,000 hockey fans attending a Pittsburgh Penguins game.
Mr. Carlow plans a string of new products to help cover his fixed costs; Clark already makes Slow Poke and Black Cow, two caramel suckers sold regionally. The Clark bar has 9 grams of fat and 250 calories; Mr. Carlow said he was working on a Clark Light bar that would have half the fat and 165 calories. He also hopes to offer a Clark Classic, which would have a milk-based caramel core, as the original bar did, instead of the current bar's taffy center.
 
Rivals Are Moving Too
 Whether all this will make the Clark bar a financial success is far from certain. For one thing, the competition has also been developing new products. Mars, for instance, has recently come out with mint- and peanut-butter-flavored M&M's to complement its M&M plain and peanut brands. Nor is the competition likely to sit still if Mr. Carlow beefs up marketing of the Clark bar. Hershey has already stepped up advertising of its competing bar, the Fifth Avenue.
The risk is that Mr. Carlow might whip up so much fresh excitement for the Clark bar that an industry Goliath decides to trample him. Mr. Teitelbaum of Merrill Lynch said: "Hershey & Mars will not ignore him. The only question is whether the Clark bar remains something they can live with."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael P. Carlow, the owner of the D. L. Clark Company, wants to save the Clark bar from extinction. He's shown at left before a plaque dedicated to D. L. Clark, the company's late founder. Above, a Clark illuminated advertising sign looms over the Allegheny River in Pittsburgh, the city that has always been home to the Clark confection. (Scott Goldsmithy for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (61%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: CLARK, D L, CO; LEAF INC MARS INC (85%); LEAF INC (71%); ANNABELLE CANDY CO INC (63%); PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES GROUP INC (61%); NESTLE SA (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLARK, D L, CO; LEAF INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PENNSYLVANIA UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: CANDY; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (90%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (89%); CONFECTIONERY (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); CLOSINGS (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); PLANT CLOSINGS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); INTERVIEWS (68%); CARTELS (50%); 

PERSON: CARLOW, MICHAEL P; BERG, ERIC N MICHAEL P CARLOW (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



284 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: All Aboard for Influence, Donations and Votes

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7

 BODY:
Somewhere just outside Baltimore, Priscilla Anderson, a freshman Assemblywoman, squeezed and pushed her way through a knot of people in a smoke-filled railroad car and opened the door to the next car.
"Is this the last car?" the nearly exhausted Ms. Anderson exhausted. To her delight, it was. 
 In a political rite that is unique to New Jersey, Ms. Anderson and about 1,400 other politicians, business people and lobbyists opened the state's political season Thursday by riding a train from Newark to Washington, then joining the state's Congressional delegation for dinner.
The New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce began the ritual 54 years ago to provide a means for business people to meet and lobby the Congressional delegation. Over the last 25 years, the four-hour train ride has come to signal the start of the campaign season in New Jersey; to politicians and business leaders who spend most of the trip on their feet, prowling the crowded aisles, shaking hands and trying to wangle favors, the "walk to Washington" has become indispensable.
 
'Seeing and Being Seen'
 "Anybody who is trying to establish a presence in a statewide political race in New Jersey rides this train," said William R. Healey, a lobbyist and spokesman for the State Chamber of Commerce. "It is a unique way of seeing and being seen."
The chamber began the train ride and Congressional dinner in 1937, and except for two years during World War II when trains were not available -- 1942 and 1943 -- and 1974, during the height of the energy crisis, it has been an annual event.
"It really goes back to 1936, when there was a reception held in Newark for the New Jersey Congressional delegation and it was poorly attended," Mr. Healey said. "So the chamber decided to take Mohammed to the mountain."
To the uninitiated, the journey seems to be a pub crawl on wheels; every fourth car is a bar car, and drinks are mixed and served from many seats that have become impromptu hospitality suites.
 
A Maiden Voyage
 "I don't know what to expect," said Thomas S. Smith as he stepped aboard the train in Trenton. It was the maiden chamber trip for Mr. Smith, the Mayor of Asbury Park who was elected to the Assembly as a Republican last Nov. 5, and he had no problem acknowledging his apprehension. "I think I'll just be an observer this time," he said.
At stations in Newark, Metro Park, New Brunswick and Trenton special-interest groups handed out fliers by the hundreds -- a labor union urging the travelers to support Gov. Jim Florio's economic recovery plan, a group advocating national health insurance and a coalition of political consultants taking a Presidential straw poll.
A radio station gave away key chains, college presidents passed out pencils and the Essex County Sheriff, Armando B. Fontoura, deputized the entire train, passing out cards emblazoned with gold shields that designate the bearers as honorary special deputies for 1992.
Despite the carnival atmosphere, the train ride has become an important part of New Jersey's political gamesmanship.
"What's important is who is seeking whom and why," said the Hudson County Executive, Robert C. Janiszewski, a Democrat and a veteran of 14 train rides. "The politicians with the real clout are usually in the middle cars, where everybody passes by and comes to them."
 
'A Captive Audience'
 Holding audiences in the eighth and ninth of the train's 14 cars were the leaders of the newly powerful Republican Party -- the Senate President, Donald T. DiFrancesco; the Assembly Speaker, Garabed (Chuck) Haytaian, and Assemblyman Robert Franks, the chairman of the Republican State Committee. The Republicans took control of both houses of the Legislature on Jan. 14.
"You have a captive audience here, at least for four hours," Mr. DiFrancesco said. "It's important that the businessmen get to spend a few minutes with Haytaian, Franks and me."
Mr. Florio missed this year's train ride because he had to be in Washington early Thursday to testify before a Congressional committee. But like every other New Jersey politician, he has made many a "walk to Washington." "This train is full of people who are and people who want to be," said a senior Democratic staff member in the State Senate.
With no major statewide races scheduled, this year's train ride was a bit less hectic than most, Mr. Franks said.
Still, dozens of public relations representatives plowed through crowded cars with clients in tow, creating human traffic jams as they stopped to introduce legislative movers and shakers.
"Say, I have a friend . . ." said one businessman, breaking the ice with a politician.
"Who hasn't," came the clipped reply.
Working one end of the train was William Gormley, a Republican State Senator who is expected to seek his party's gubernatorial nomination next year.
Near the other end of the train, another potential Republican gubernatorial contender, Christine Todd Whitman, worked the crowd.
"You can't really get into anything serious while on the train," said Ms. Whitman, who came within a percentage point of upsetting Senator Bill Bradley in 1989. "But there is no question that this train ride is obligatory for any statewide political candidate because of the contacts you make."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Politicians, business people and lobbyists opened New Jersey's political season on Thursday by riding a train from Newark to Washington. Garabed (Chuck) Haytaian, the New Jersey Assembly Speaker, spoke with one rider as another passed a business card during the trip. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN STATE COMMITTEE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN STATE COMMITTEE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LEGISLATURES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; RAILROADS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (90%); LOBBYING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (82%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); DRINKING PLACES (66%); WORLD WAR II (64%); LEGISLATION (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (60%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY PRISCILLA ANDERSON (64%); ROBERT D FRANKS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



285 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Gas Price War Lures Drivers to New Jersey

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EAST BRUNSWICK, N.J., Feb. 4

 BODY:
The customers line up early and late at Nick and George Kambitsis's Raceway gas station here, drivers in everything from Jaguars to old pickup trucks. They are waiting patiently to cash in on an early harbinger of spring, the old-fashioned gasoline price war, which has pushed regular unleaded down to 89 cents a gallon at some stations here and to less than a dollar at most others.
These are the state's lowest gas prices in five years, according to the New Jersey Petroleum Council, and up and down State Highway 18, sellers of such major brands as Exxon, Sunoco and Texaco have similarly, and angrily, pushed their prices down. The big names are chasing Raceway and other independent retailers who are taking advantage of a glut, caused by the recession and mild weather, that promises to last into the summer. 
 The customers are delighted, and drivers from neighboring New York and Pennsylvania say they often detour several miles to buy gas at prices 30 and 40 cents a gallon less than they pay at home.
"After being ripped off by the oil companies for years, I feel like I'm finally getting something back," said Clarke Evans, a printing materials sales and service representative from White Plains who regularly gets off the New Jersey Turnpike to gas up here for 89 cents a gallon. At home, he said, stations charge $1.19 for the same 87 octane unleaded regular.
 
Lower and Lower Prices
 "And that's for self-service," he said. "In Jersey, they pump it for you."
The owners and tenants of major-brand stations, who must buy gas at higher prices under their contracts with refiners, curse those who discount and complain that they will be driven out of business unless prices rise. Yet they have little choice but to post lower and lower numbers on the big signs the law requires them to display at the roadside.
"Some of these independents are selling for 10 or 15 cents under what I have to pay for it," said Pat Pontoriero, who with his brother, Joseph, owns J & P Auto Service Sunoco at Tices Lane, about a mile north of the Raceway station. "But they've got us in this price war, and if they can sell for their price, the rest of us have to keep up."
So Mr. Pontoriero is selling his economy unleaded at 99 cents a gallon. Raoul Pangalinan, who runs the Texaco station to the south, is doing the same for his regular grade. The Hess station at Cranbury Road is charging 93 cents a gallon, and the Merit station, across the highway and a little north of J & P Sunoco, advertises unleaded regular at 89 cents.
Even before the price war, New Jersey enjoyed comparatively cheap gasoline. It is a particular bargain when compared to New York City, where the state Energy Office reports prices average $1.33 for full service. In the Hudson Valley and on Long Island, the office says, the average is about $1.32. In southwestern Connecticut, the state has found an average price of $1.37 a gallon for full service. Self-service prices are generally 5 to 8 cents a gallon cheaper, although the margin can be greater depending on local labor costs and other factors.
 
Accounting for Prices
 In contrast, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection and Energy found an average price of $1.11 for regular unleaded with full service. New Jersey prohibits self-service stations.
Part of the price difference is a result of lower state taxes, which amount to 14.5 cents a gallon in New Jersey, compared with 24.7 cents in New York State and 29.6 cents in Connecticut, according to the American Petroleum Institute. All states also charge a Federal motor fuel tax of 14.1 cents a gallon.
Another reason for low prices is New Jersey's role as a petroleum shipping and refining center, with three major regional refineries, Exxon's in Linden, where the Colonial petroleum pipeline from Texas and the Gulf states also terminates, Amerada-Hess in Woodbridge and Mobil and Coastal in Gloucester County, in southern New Jersey.
But all of this is mere detail to Lynda Garritson, a single mother of two children who drove from New Brunswick, six miles away, to fill up here at 89 cents a gallon, 15 cents less than the $1.04 posted price at home. The savings, she said, are worth the extra gas she burns on her trip.
"These gas prices are the one good thing I can see in the economy," said Ms. Garritson, who supports her children on child-support payments from her former husband and occasional temporary office work. "Nobody has any extra money to spend around here, so at least if gas prices are going down, we've got something to smile about."
Nick Kambitsis, who with his brother owns seven other Raceway stations in the area, sits in his cramped, windowless office behind the cash register and works with a fax machine and a phone to find the cheapest gas available.
"Price war? We're not starting a price war," he said, cheerfully indignant. "We just try to keep to a fixed profit margin, and when the spot price moves, we move with it."
Right now, the spot market stands at 52 cents a gallon. Add 28.6 cents a gallon in state and Federal taxes, and the Kambitsis brothers keep about nine pennies for each of the 20,000 gallons they pump 6 A.M. to midnight each day, here on Highway 18. From that they pay their overhead at the station and the wages of eight attendants who seem to be in constant motion in their bright red coveralls, leaping over hoses and darting between the idling cars, trying to keep the customers going out as fast as they come in.
While there is no evidence of price wars in other parts of the state or the region, station operators readily admit that they are doing all they can to keep the peace.
Bill Denson, who operates stations in Somerville and Martinsville, N.J., dropped his price for regular unleaded at the Somerville station from $1.04 to $1.01 when sales began to sag last week. He would like to avoid going under the psychological $1 threshold, he said, but the balance is a delicate one.
"I try to maintain a certain volume," he said, "but at the same time I don't want to cut too much or start to undercut the other guy. Then you get into a price war, and nobody benefits."
Nobody, he could have added, but the customer.

GRAPHIC: Table: "COMPARE AND CONTRAST: Gas Prices at the Pump," compares recent average price for a gallon of 87-octane unleaded regular in New Jersey, New York State, downstate New York, New York City, Connecticut and Bridgeport area (Source: State energy departments) (pg. 27)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: 99 CENTS ONLY STORES (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; CONNECTICUT; PENNSYLVANIA; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE ; NEW BRUNSWICK (NJ) UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; SALES; PRICES; DISCOUNT SELLING ; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (73%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); RETAILERS (69%); CITIES (60%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER NICK KAMBITSIS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



286 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Credit Off for First Year Since '58

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7

 BODY:
Wary consumers paid off more debt than they took on in 1991, causing installment credit to shrink for the first year since 1958, the Federal Reserve Board said today.
The 1 percent fall in oustanding credit was another sign that spending was unlikely to pick up soon in an economy that relies on consumer spending for two-thirds of its growth. 
 Credit owed by consumers fell to $728.4 billion on Dec. 31, dropping $1.72 billion after a $170 million decrease in November. In 1990, consumer credit rose by 2.3 percent from the previous year.
Every major credit category shrank in December, with the exception of borrowing for mobile homes. In particular, the total that consumers owed on automobile loans was paid down by $689 million after falling by $1.89 billion in November and by $207 million in October.
 
Fewer Auto Loans
 Auto loan balances decreased every month in 1991, a measure of Americans' reluctance to take out loans for new cars when job conditions are so uncertain.
The latest unemployment report, published by the Labor Department, is likely to aggravate consumer concerns. Some 91,000 more non-farm jobs were lost last month and the unemployment rate stayed at 7.1 percent.
The latest credit figures reinforce a trend among consumers, who are being offered the lowest interest rates in decades but are reducing their indebtedness.
In the past, policy makers counted on lower rates to promote spending that in turn led to increased production and renewed hiring.
 But with more people losing their jobs, workweeks shortening and hourly wages falling, consumer confidence has fallen to levels not seen in more than a decade.
 
 
Credit-Card Debt Off
 In December, credit-card debt dropped by $207 million, despite the Christmas shopping season. Credit-card debt had grown by $1.01 billion in November and by $1.59 billion in October.
Bank credit, aside from home mortgages, was reduced by $876 million in December after growing by $599 million in November.
The only category that expanded was for mobile homes, which grew by $50 million after increasing by $116 million in November and by $51 million in October.
In 1958, the last year when consumers reduced their debts, the economy was entering a recession.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Consumer Borrowing," tracks net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding, July 1990-Dec. 1991 (Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BANK OF CREDIT & COMMERCE GHANA LTD (53%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT CONSUMER LENDING (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MOBILE HOMES (74%); INTEREST RATES (71%); CHRISTMAS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); DISMISSALS (67%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



287 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Group Offers Plan to Control Pollution Through a Quota System

BYLINE: By MARLISE SIMONS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Feb. 7

 BODY:
A group of experts sponsored by the United Nations is proposing cheaper and more efficient ways to control global air pollution by creating a worldwide market in pollution permits.
The plan is the most ambitious yet in the effort to control harmful emissions through the forces of the free market. It would for the first time put a worldwide price on one or more of the pollutants blamed for global warming. 
 The plan, commissioned by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and released in Geneva last week, would set national quotas on emissions. Those governments or private groups that found it too difficult or too costly to meet their limits could buy pollution allowances abroad. Countries that polluted less than their quota could sell their allowances to other nations.
Proponents of the plan hope the concept will be approved in June at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro. Lawyers, economists and energy specialists have worked for more than a year to prepare the plan.
 
Global Plan for Global Problem
 The proposal is a break with the common practice of tackling environmental problems through national and local regulations and rules.
People who prepared the plan acknowledge that a global system for pollution licenses and quotas for rich and poor nations will be difficult to negotiate. But they say that as long as there are clear benefits and incentives, the rapidly growing concern about climatic change does make such a plan possible.
Supporters note that the world's governments are already moving toward a consensus: limits must be placed on gases that can warm the earth. But there is wide disagreement on the size of the necessary cuts.
"Everyone recognizes that climate change is a global problem, so this is a first practical mechanism that can work on a global scale," said Frank Joshua, coordinator of the group that produced the plan.
 
Smaller Steps Expected First
 Even if a universal system cannot be put into place in the near future, those who have worked on the plan say they are confident that limited bilateral or multilateral agreements among countries could start in a matter of months.
Pollution experts say they are encouraged because the concept of trading pollution allowances is already gaining ground among policy makers. The European Community is discussing a 12-country plan for trading sulfur-emissions permits, and the concept is actually working on a small scale in the United States, where the Clean Air Act gave companies the right to trade in sulfur-dioxide allowances to reduce acid rain.
And last week, regulators in Southern California tentatively approved a plan to let companies trade pollution rights, beginning with emissions of nitrogen oxides.
 
'An Enormous Change'>
 Some environmentalists have reservations about the United Nations plan because it would effectively grant companies and governments permission to continue polluting. They argue that it would also let sellers of pollution entitlements make money off the fact that people elsewhere kept using so-called dirty energy like coal and oil.
But proponents, among them several longtime environmentalists, argue that pollution happens anyway and has long been free. By creating permits and credits, the plan would put a price on carbon dioxide, the initial target. Emissions could be valued in units of 100 or 1,000 tons produced.
"This would be an enormous change," said Tom Tietenberg, an American economist and expert in tradable permits who has worked on the global plan. "This means using the market to pursue environmental objectives rather than just economic objectives. Until now, the market has been seen as a powerful adversary, and environmentalists have wanted to block it at every turn. It's an attempt to make this powerful force work for you rather than against you."
 
Quotas for Carbon Dioxide
 In its first stage, the United Nations proposal calls for a binding international treaty to set a global limit on carbon dioxide emissions, which makes up the bulk of the so-called greenhouse gases widely thought to be warming the earth's atmosphere.
Quotas would then be set for how much carbon dioxide each country would be allowed to produce. Countries that produced less than their quotas would earn pollution credits that could be traded or sold to countries wanting to exceed their quotas.
"The purpose is to reduce waste, to get as much control as possible for the same dollar spent," said Mr. Tietenberg, an economics professor at Colby College in Waterville, Me. "If the U.S. has to cut emissions and it can look only within its own borders, there will be limited opportunities to do this at low cost. In Eastern Europe and other developing countries there are many opportunities to reduce emissions more cheaply."
Planners recommend starting off with carbon dioxide because, Mr. Joshua said, "its properties are well known; it's the largest proportion of gases produced; it can be measured."
A nation's output of carbon dioxide can be relatively easily estimated through its energy consumption. Other factors would be considered, like the seasonal fires in some parts of the world to clear fields and forests. If a system works for carbon dioxide, planners envision expanding it to cover other polluting gases.
 
All Nations May Benefit
 The experts who worked on the plan, which was financed by Norway and the Netherlands, said one basic guideline was that a global pollution-control program would have the best chance for success if all the participants saw benefits. Thus, the authors stress that buying or leasing emission permits can suit rich industrial countries where rules and standards can be very expensive to put into force and may not work anyway.
For developing countries, on the other hand, the plan would respond to a persistent demand: that the wealthy, industrialized nations, which are the world's greatest polluters, must provide expertise and money if they want the poorer nations to change environmentally harmful practices. Developing countries, which pollute less, would get pollution rights above their current needs and thus build up a surplus.
This surplus would leave a margin for future use so as not to inhibit industrial growth. But in the meantime they could lease or sell their surplus credits to other nations.
Some private projects of this kind are already under way. A Dutch utility, which was paying heavy taxes for exceeding its quota of carbon and sulfur emissions, is now financing a $35 million plant in Poland. The utility found that by spending that amount on its already finely tuned Dutch power stations, it could remove only 6,000 tons of sulfur -- just a small percentage. But for the same amount of money in Poland, it can remove 45,000 tons of sulfur a year. To finance this effort, the utility got Government approval to increase its rates to consumers and to use part of its money that would otherwise go toward taxes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (56%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT TRADE & DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MONGOLIA (57%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (56%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; QUOTAS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); NITROGEN OXIDES (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); CLIMATOLOGY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ACID RAIN (73%); APPROVALS (73%); 

PERSON: SIMONS, MARLISE

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



288 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Digital Sets Plan to Build Its Own PC's

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MAYNARD, Mass., Feb. 7

 BODY:
In an effort to increase its profit margins in the highly competitive personal computer market, the Digital Equipment Corporation is going to start building its own personal computers, possibly at manufacturing plants in the United States. The move represents an abrupt turnabout from its strategy of selling only PC's manufactured by Tandy, Intel and Olivetti.
The move was a surprise to analysts because Digital had won praise for its resale strategy. In addition, The company had built various PC's that failed in the market over the last decade. The main difference now is that the machine it plans to build is a low-price I.B.M. clone similar to what it has been buying from others. 
 John F. Smith, Digital's senior vice president for operations, said the plan to build PC's had always been part of Digital's strategy "if we reached certain volumes." He added that Digital would start building a new generation of PC's in Taiwan and quite possibly in the company's Albuquerque, N.M., plant.
 
Trying to Keep Profits
 Mr. Smith said that until this new generation of products was ready for shipping, which would be "very soon," the company would continue to buy from the other manufacturers. But he added that "instead of putting the profits into the pockets of Tandy and Olivetti, we'd just as soon put it in our own pockets."
A spokesman for the Tandy Corporation would not comment other than to say that the company anticipated doing business with Digital in the future.
Digital is also planning to announce on Monday a significant marketing and development agreement with Novell Inc. of Provo, Utah. George Colony, president of Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass., said the two companies would announce that Digital would support Novell's popular Netware software on its computers.
It is also expected that Digital will resell Netware to its customers and will cooperate on joint research and development with Novell for future offerings. Netware allows networks of personal computers to work together and share files, electronic mail and data bases.
 
Surprised at Recent Report
 On another subject, Mr. Smith expressed surprise at an article that appeared in The Wall Street Journal today that said Digital planned to cut $400 million out of its $1.6 billion research and development budget. He said the company was simply continuing its recent cost-cutting strategy and "engineering was never exempt from this."
He added that last week Digital announced to its executives a significant restructuring of the entire company that would involve consolidating many units including engineering. "I don't know if the figure will be $400 million," he said. "We are going to save some dollars and I won't know how much that will be until I get a final consolidation plan from engineering, and that won't be for another two months. I sure hope it's $400 million."
Mr. Smith said he could not be sure whether the company would need to take another restructuring charge to cover the continued cost-cutting. Digital has already taken $1.65 billion in restructuring charges in the last two years, and the company has nearly $800 million worth of those charges remaining on its books that it expects to use by the end of June.
 
'Playing Musical Chairs'
 Terry Shannon, an analyst in Ashland, Mass., called it "a pretty dramatic shake-up." He continued, "They are playing musical chairs in Maynard with the senior executives and they are taking away a lot of the chairs."
According to the internal memo obtained by The Journal, Digital's president, Kenneth H. Olsen, was upset about Digital's second-quarter earnings statement, which showed Digital's first quarterly loss in the company's 35-year history. The memo indicated that the current reorganization was a result of Mr. Olsen's annoyance at the bad quarter, but Mr. Smith insisted that the moves were simply part of the company's plan to streamline operations.
On the New York Stock Exchange, Digital's share price rose 50 cents today, to $53.375.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (92%); RSH (NYSE) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (83%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (78%); UTAH, USA (78%); 

CITY: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (78%); PROVO, UT, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (92%); RADIOSHACK CORP (84%); NOVELL INC (83%); INTEL CORP (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (78%); UTAH, USA (78%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (78%); PROVO, UT, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); PERSONAL COMPUTERS PERSONAL COMPUTERS (92%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (68%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



289 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Posts Sharp Losses In Reaction to Jobs Report

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar declined sharply on world currency markets yesterday after the release of disappointing employment data.
Gold prices also lost ground after rising in Europe. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold for current delivery settled at $355 an ounce, off 70 cents from Thursday. The Republic National Bank said gold slid 80 cents, to a late price of $354.50. 
 The Labor Department reported that the United States unemployment rate held at 7.1 percent in January. But traders focused instead on a separate survey of employers' payrolls that showed an unexpectedly large loss of 91,000 jobs. Dealers were expecting a gain of 20,000 to 30,000 jobs.
"The dollar came off clearly on the disappointment over the figures," said Richard Levine, a foreign exchange broker at Merrill Lynch Futures Inc.
The sentiment in the currency markets, he said, had been that in the first month of the year the economy was beginning to pick up. "It may still end up that way," he added, "but any sporadic indication that that might not be true is going to rattle the market."
The surge in job losses led to speculation that the Federal Reserve might lower interest rates. Lower rates make dollar-denominated securities less attractive to investors, thereby diminishing their need for dollars.
Higher rates overseas are competing for investors' money. Traders said that currently there was little to focus on other than the differences in interest rates.
Despite the dollar's decline, many expect the economy to pick up in the second quarter. "I view this as one of the few remaining dollar selloffs," Mr. Levine said.
In Tokyo, the dollar rose before the release of the unemployment report, to a closing 125.52 Japanese yen from 125.40 yen at Thursday's close. Later in London, it fell to 125.20 yen. In New York, the dollar settled at 125.30 yen, down from 125.65 yen on Thursday.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.8370, from $1.8200 late Thursday. In New York, it cost $1.8370 to buy one pound, more expensive than Thursday's $1.8215.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Thursday's rates, included: 1.5595 German marks, down from 1.5765; 1.3910 Swiss francs, down from 1.4065; 5.3150 French francs, down from 5.3725; 1,174.25 Italian lire, down from 1,187.00, and 1.1781 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1809.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH PIERCE FENNER & SMITH INC (69%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (78%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (94%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); 

PERSON: RICHARD LEVINE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



290 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: Rose Hirschman, 87, A Real-Estate Lawyer

 BODY:
Rose Korn Hirschman, a real-estate lawyer and volunteer at the United Nations and other organizations, died Jan. 24 at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan.
She died of liver failure, her family said. 
 Born in Manhattan, she grew up there and in Brooklyn. She earned her undergraduate and law degrees at New York University. She began practicing law in Manhattan with her brother, Ashton Korn, and after his death worked on her own.
For nine years she represented the International Federation of Women Lawyers at United Nations commissions dealing with discrimination, minorities, women, economics, crime, commodities trade, human rights and population growth.
She was a past president of the Sisterhood of the Community Synagogue, vice president of the Congregation Emanuel Sisterhood and chairwoman of its youth activities and board member of the Young Women's Hebrew Association. She headed the Mount Vernon branch of the American Red Cross and served on the board of its Westchester County chapter. She was also on the boards of the Mount Vernon Nursing School and Mount Vernon Hospital and founded the hospital's volunteer services.
Her husband, Dr. Sol Hirschman, is dead. She is survived by two daughters, Judge Aileen Hirschman Belford of Fall River, Mass., and E. Judith Hirschman Berger of Manhattan; a son, Dr. Richard James Hirschman of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: MOUNT VERNON HOSPITAL (68%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (56%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (56%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); WOMEN (90%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); NURSES & NURSING (73%); COMMODITIES TRADING (54%); 

PERSON: HIRSCHMAN, ROSE KORN

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



291 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 15; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Music Notes;
Composers Orchestra Defies the Conventional

BYLINE: By Allan Kozinn

 BODY:
The American Composers Orchestra contradicted two points of conventional wisdom when it announced some ambitious plans for its 1992-93 season. Although the orchestra's specialty, 20th-century American music, is widely considered the province of the new-music fringe, Jesse Rosen, the orchestra's executive director, said that the ensemble's ticket sales had tripled since 1985. And although many organizations have concluded that the prudent thing to do in a recession is cut back on performances, the American Composer's Orchestra is expanding its schedule to five concerts, up from four this season.
The orchestra has also just appointed its first music director, Dennis Russell Davies. Mr. Davies, who is 47 years old, was not a surprise choice. He was one of the orchestra's founders (with the composers Francis Thorne and Nicolas Roussakis and the conductor Paul Lustig Dunkel, all of whom are still involved with the group), and he has been principal conductor since 1977. His new contract begins this season and runs for three years. 
 "The American Composer's Orchestra is the organization I've had the longest association with in my career," said Mr. Davies, who is also the music director of the Brooklyn Academy of Music and of the city of Bonn, Germany. "And because I have conducted the orchestra in one or two concerts a year, many people assumed that I was music director. But we didn't work that way. Becoming the director is a way for me to reaffirm my commitment to the orchestra, and to take a hand in determining its future."
The orchestra has also just signed a three-year, three-disk contract with Argo Records that obliges the organization to contribute toward recording costs. Mr. Rosen said the orchestra's recording activities, together with the 25 percent increase in its concert schedule, might push the organization's 1992 budget as much as 40 percent higher than the current $900,000. Some of the money will come from a recent $175,000 grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. Mr. Rosen said he was about to begin raising the rest.
Mr. Davies's plans for the immediate future include conducting three of next season's five concerts. The others are to be conducted by Mr. Dunkel and by James DePreist. The schedule includes world premieres of works by John Cage, Richard Wernick, Chou Wen-Chung, Ge Gan-Ru, Sheila Silver and Robert Beaser, who is the orchestra's composer in residence. There will also be New York premieres of works by Andrew Imbrie, Cindy McTee, Roger Rynolds, Leon Kirchner, Curtis O. B. Curtis-Smith, Leo Ornstein, Bruce MacCombie, John Duffy and David Dzubay.
As part of its new Argo deal, the orchestra is to record works by Mr. Beaser, Chinary Ung, Colin McPhee and Henry Cowell. It has already recorded a collection of William Bolcom works, which is to be released next week. Over the years, the ensemble has recorded about a dozen disks, mostly for the new-music specialty labels CRI and New World Records.
Speaking about his long-term plans, Mr. Davies said he hoped to explore the fullest implications of the orchestra's name by expanding its mandate to all of the Western hemisphere. For 1994, he is planning a series of programs that will include works by Latin American composers.
 
Souvenirs of Vienna
 When Carnegie Hall opened its new Rose Museum last season, the hall's archivist, Gino Francesconi, promised to supplement permanent exhibitions of Carnegie-related memorabilia with rotating presentations, some built around materials borrowed from other institutions. The first was "Tchaikovsky at Carnegie Hall: Centennial of an American Journey," an illuminating exhibit that commemorated the composer's visit to New York for the opening of the hall in 1891 and that drew on Tchaikovsky items from the Klin and Glinka Museums in Russia.
A new exhibition, "The Vienna Philharmonic at 150," opened on Tuesday at the Rose Museum and includes some tantalizing items from the Austrian orchestra's archives. The items will be on display until March 6. The orchestra itself will be visiting Carnegie on Feb. 27 and 28.
In addition to material relating directly to the orchestra -- a program from its debut concert on March 28, 1842, for example, and letters to the ensemble from Brahms, Mahler and Bernstein -- the collection includes items of broader historical interest.
A few are fetishistic curiosities: a ring owned by Beethoven, a pair of Brahms's spectacles, Bruckner's matchbox bearing a portrait of Wagner, and one of Mahler's hats. For the more musicologically inclined, there is a Beethoven sketchbook page, an autographed photo of Brahms on which the composer wrote an unidentified canon, and a Richard Strauss notebook with sketches of "Danube," an unfinished tone poem he was writing for the orchestra's centennial. There are also scores signed by Strauss and Bruckner.
The museum, at 154 West 57th Street (accessible through the Weill Recital Hall entrance), is open to the public every day from 11 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. Admission is free.
 
Hemidemisemiquavers
 The Lark String Quartet, an American all-female ensemble, won first prize at the Shostakovich International String Quartet Competition in St. Petersburg. . . . Columbia University has awarded its $50,000 William Schuman Award for composition to Milton Babbitt, who is to receive the prize on April 1. . . .The Fromm Music Foundation at Harvard University has given the Tanglewood Music Center a $100,000 grant, to be used over the next five years to foster the composition and performance of new music. The money will underwrite an annual Fromm Concert, which will be part of Tanglewood's annual Festival of Contemporary Music, and will support a Paul Fromm Award for composers. Recipients of the award will write a chamber work to be performed at the festival. . . . William M. Hoffmann, the playwright who provided the libretto for John Corigliano's "Ghosts of Versailles," is toiling in the fields of opera again. He is writing the supertitles for the Brooklyn Academy of Music production of "Atys," part of the academy's French Baroque Project. The opera was a smash hit when William Christie and Les Arts Florissants first brought it to the academy in 1989. Virtually the same forces are returning for the revival, which opens on March 18.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dennis Russell Davies, a founder of the American Composers Orchestra and recently appointed its first music director. (Nancy Siesel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (69%); UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (55%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA (96%); AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA (96%); AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (69%); UNITED STATES (55%); NEW YORK, USA (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC MUSIC (92%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); FOUNDATIONS (61%); 

PERSON: DAVIES, DENNIS RUSSELL; KOZINN, ALLAN DENNIS RUSSELL DAVIES (84%); JESSE ROSEN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



292 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Uncle Sam Says 'Uncle' on Haiti

 BODY:
The criminal gang that now runs Haiti is all but dancing in the streets this weekend, celebrating two big signals that Washington is no longer pressing for a quick return to democratic rule.
By forcing Haitian refugees to return home, and then unilaterally relaxing a regional economic embargo, the Bush Administration has given Haiti's new rulers the impression that Washington concedes their hold on power. 
 Having outlasted the pressure, the Haitian military is no longer in any mood to bargain, even over cosmetic details.
In the case of Haiti, "criminal gang" is not mere bombast. The present crew seized power in a bloody coup against the democratically elected President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide. It has encouraged soldiers to intimidate poor neighborhoods still loyal to him. It has freed the Tontons Macoute enforcers of the old Duvalier dictatorship and let them terrorize civilians as before. And it has cooperated with smugglers, including those suspected of trafficking drugs to the U.S.
Haiti's regime may not be as dangerous to the outside world as Saddam Hussein's. But it is as deserving of Washington's unremitting hostility as, say, neighboring Cuba, or the former Noriega regime in Panama. At stake is international decency, the future of Latin American democracy, America's reputation and, most urgently, Haitian lives.
A quick change in policy is needed. Instead of easing the embargo, Washington, working with the Organization of American States, could stiffen it, imposing a naval blockade of all goods except humanitarian deliveries of food and other civilian essentials. These deliveries could be coordinated through international relief agencies.
Instead of forcibly repatriating refugees, the Bush Administration could grant them temporary protected status, for the duration of the crisis. That would not only safeguard innocent lives, it would show the present regime that Washington expects a speedy political solution. The Administration can put further pressure on Haitian leaders by freezing their assets in the U.S.
Such a muscular policy would not be likely to offend Latin American allies. Although Latins don't like unilateral U.S. bullying of established regimes, they have warmed to the idea of collective action against military usurpers. Venezuela and Argentina, for example, have consistently supported O.A.S. activism against the Haitian coup.
How about Uncle Sam?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (96%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); PANAMA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (52%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (54%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (54%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (96%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); PANAMA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EDITORIALS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COUPS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); SMUGGLING (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); POLITICS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



293 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Miyazawa's Words

 BODY:
Following is the Japanese Foreign Ministry's translation of Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa's full remarks in Parliament on Feb. 3 concerning the U.S. work ethic; they were made in response to a member's comments. Portions of the Prime Minister's remarks, as reported, have been widely seen as America-bashing. 
 I have heard your comment, which is easy to understand. [Your point would be] there is something that is lacking in America. Looking at what things have come to over the past 10 years: we might say that the interpretation of producing things or creating value has become very loose; it's that no one doubts that value can be created in the money market. Creating things by the sweat of our brows, a kind of work ethic, is related to various things. There is probably even a connection with computers. People graduating from universities are going to Wall Street for high salaries. As a result, the number of engineers, who actually make things, is shrinking, something Representative [Kabun] Muto and I both see.
While we were debating whether this situation was all right or not, the money market advanced and junk bonds appeared -- junk bonds, just as their name implies, are very dangerous. We have these leveraged buyouts where those without their own money can buy up things, and then, unable to pay the interest on their debts, [the companies] fall into bankruptcy. It should be obvious to anyone that such a situation could not continue long.
Yet, over the past 10 years, this very situation has continued. I have long felt that this might involve something like a lack of a work ethic. I think what you are worrying about is related to this situation. In one sense, there are many of these same elements present in what has been called Japan's bubble economy. After this bubble [burst], both [countries] now have a lot to clean up in the aftermath, and all of our people learned a lot from this. It is very important to build things of value with the sweat of our brows. This may sound like a sermon, but what I have said is what I feel. When President Bush talks about education, I believe he is trying to reiterate the above kind of message.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ETHICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); BONDS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (66%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (51%); 

PERSON: MIYAZAWA, KIICHI (PRIME MIN) KIICHI MIYAZAWA (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



294 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Affirmative Action Looks Like Favoritism

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"The Great White Myth" by Anna Quindlen (column, Jan. 15) misses the target on affirmative action in the workplace. Clearly, she lacks the firsthand experience of those who have lived with goals and timetables, supported their intent and witnessed the consequences. I have been involved with affirmative action as an executive and a consultant. 
 Affirmative action was born of 200 years of discrimination against blacks and their inadequate participation in American economic life. Conceptually flawed, inconsistently administered and overburdened by the inclusion of white women among its beneficiaries, affirmative action has nonetheless created an important beachhead from which blacks can move forward.
However, the white males who bear the exclusionary burden are not the historic perpetrators of discrimination. They are not the executives who bought into the concept, but are often the very people who have been victimized by nepotism and the other forms of favoritsim to which Ms. Quindlen refers.
It is true that business leaders have forever favored their own at the expense of fairness. It is also true that many executives are obscenely compensated as a result of a pervasive relationship between officers and directors. Furthermore, companies have not done everything they should to make their reward (appraisal) systems the cornerstones of merit they were intended to be. Affirmative action's goals and timetables simply add to the list of flaws and contrivances in our places of employment. Good riddance to them all!
The emergence of black intellectuals who question the price paid by affirmative action's beneficiaries in a diminished sense of achievement is significant. Many blacks are distressed by perceptions of altered performance standards and the implication that they don't really have what it takes. Once again, the lunch is never free.
Ms. Quindlen points out that laws -- affirmative action among them -- don't change attitudes. What does? The clear, forceful assertion of fundamental values, supported by a uniform application of performance standards.
 
THOMAS W. MULLEN
Rye, N.Y., Jan. 23, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; DISCRIMINATION; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (95%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: QUINDLEN, ANNA; MULLEN, THOMAS W ANNA QUINDLEN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



295 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: Keep Pan Am Sign as Memorial to Air Pioneer

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Within a few months, Pan Am signs could possibly be removed from the Pan American Airways Building in New York City. 
 More than any other airline, Pan American pioneered international and intercontinental air travel. It initiated the flying boat routes across the Pacific Ocean and into South America, and grew globally until at the line's peak in the 1960's, the name Pan Am was synonymous with the United States.
It has been painful to watch Pan Am's slow disintegration over the years, even more painful to see it cease operations altogether. It is my feeling, and I'm sure the feeling of many others inside and outside the airline industry, that to leave the Pan Am sign up would be an appropriate way to honor one of this country's great exploring endeavors.
To many the building will always be the Pan Am Building. The sometimes expressed feeling that to leave the sign up would draw attention to bankruptcy at a time of recession is far outweighed by the richness of Pan Am's history. We celebrate and remember Rear Adm. Richard E. Byrd, Charles A. Lindbergh and those who opened the West. Let's leave this memorial to those who opened the world.
A vice president of Met Life, which now owns the building, has told me that the insurance company is considering plans to remove the sign and will arrive at a decision in the next few months. He said some within Met Life would like to see the sign remain, but others prefer to replace it with a Met Life sign or nothing at all. He said that, because the building is not the corporate headquarters, a Met Life sign would constitute an unacceptable form of advertising and that having no sign would make a dull and uninteresting building even duller.
The Pan Am sign brings the building to life, particularly at night, and gives it color and character. It has also, like it or not, become a Manhattan landmark, known and recognized internationally. To change it would change the face of Manhattan, would be very costly and a great shame as well.
 
CHRISTOPHER MCLAUGHLIN
Nantucket, Mass., Jan. 18, 1992
 
The writer is a first officer with British Airways.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: BAY (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH AMERICA (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (91%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH AMERICA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); HISTORY (71%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

PERSON: MCLAUGHLIN, CHRISTOPHER

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992



296 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 7; Page 10; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 2084 words

HEADLINE: 'Just One Thing to End All Wanting'

BYLINE: By Jim Shepard; Jim Shepard is the author of the novels "Flights," "Paper Doll" and "Lights Out in the Reptile House." He teaches literature and writing at Williams College.

 BODY:

THE LOST FATHER
By Mona Simpson.
506 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf.
$22. 
 FOR all those people -- and there seem to be thousands out there -- who have asked a writer after a reading, "Are you going to do anything more with these characters?" and for the even greater number of readers dazzled by Mona Simpson's first novel, "Anywhere but Here," there's good news: the sequel is out.
"The Lost Father" picks up the story of Ann Stevenson, the 12-year-old central figure of the earlier novel, years later, as she attempts to cope with medical school, an isolated life in New York City and, most important, her lifelong obsession with finding the father she never knew. She hasn't seen him since she was 12. Then he was a mundane, well-educated sort of drifter-dreamer, an immigrant from Egypt; she has no idea of his new profession, though she entertains the persistent hope that it is mysterious and exotic (international gambler? gigolo?) and part of the glamorous reason for his absence. Ann now calls herself Mayan, the name her father gave her, and her new level of obsession is extreme: at times the reader feels that next to her, Ahab is a man with a notion, Humbert Humbert a guy with an odd craving.
The idee fixe that dominates this second book seems to grow naturally from the first, in which Ann and her mother, abandoned by Ann's father, worked their way west, propelled by her mother's relentless and fantasy-driven ambition toward the golden future she knew was just around the corner. Periodically, and in spectacularly cruel ways, Ann's mother also abandoned her daughter. It was during that childhood that Ann learned a crucial lesson from her mother: that their natural state was one of waiting, that each of their nights was "just a night, a nothing night in a million nights. All our time together was like that. It never had any height for her. She never felt that I was the life she was supposed to be living."
So Ann grew up with a father who left and a mother who kept leaving -- and a belief that because the father is lost, so is the mother, and so is the daughter. The name she settles on, Mayan Amneh Stevenson, reflects the fractures and separations of her past, spanning different cultures without belonging to them and seeming "a kind of alias and not legal." (Amneh, she's told, means "wish" in Arabic, and that, she tells us, "was all the truth in my name.") Even simple questions like "What is your name?" and "Where are you from?" have for her more than one answer, with a truth that is "spiked and jagged and took too long for social conversation."
As "The Lost Father" begins, Mayan is losing friends, losing ground, losing energy. She understands that "even daily life requires our allegiance in order to include us," but feels a "secret life about to begin" -- her new life, transformed by her discovery of her lost father. Everything else is simply to be endured, waiting for that something else, that permanence. A sense of having to prepare, in ways that she can't guess, for her private golden age, a golden age bestowed by a found father, keeps Mayan continually from the business of her life. Waiting becomes her "deepest habit," and looking for her father becomes wanting "just one thing to end all wanting."
It's a grotesque position to be in, she realizes. As an adolescent, she was a precocious feminist, determined not to go out of her way for men, and here she is, "like a nun, making my whole life for a man who wasn't even there." It's a position built as well on humiliation: "He'd tossed a cigarette butt down somewhere on the road and I'd taken that up and built a church around it."
The search for Mayan's father -- which, if persistent, was previously always covert and discreet -- begins to take over her life as each source leads her, maddeningly, only to other sources. Finally, she shuts down her life -- casting off job, school and friends -- to devote everything she has to the relentless pursuit of the ghostliest of trails.
The book is structured around that search, with frequent meditations on Mayan's past and the costs of finishing a childhood without a father. She worries that she doesn't "love right," that she "only loved people who would be better off without me," which leaves her "afraid to inhabit" her own youth. She feels that her value has declined: "A lot of the guys, I thought, would tend towards girls who were new -- nothing had happened to them yet. I was someone left already. I wondered if that made me easier to leave again."
As the search intensifies, she wrecks herself academically, financially, physically and emotionally. In her hunt for clues, she reads six years' worth of daily newspapers in a library in Montana, spends a full day in a campus phone booth calling county clerks' offices in Nevada. She follows leads on the telephone until her finger is swollen with a blood blister and her neck has a rash from the receiver. She calls and calls until the phone company refuses to accept her credit card.
TWO-THIRDS of the way through the novel, Mayan is far enough gone that people she collides with as she follows her chain of names lose their anger when they see her condition. And still there are so many possibilities that might be checked, so many leads that might be run down. "If someone had told me then as a child," she remarks, "that phone books came out new every year . . . I couldn't have borne it, the exhausting size of work ahead."
With almost no money left, Mayan flies to Egypt to pursue yet another lead. She is at the stage where she pushes everything aside to exult in each new bit of information, savor each new name, thrill at each new phone number. She is becoming, she feels, a crazy person. But if she can get just this one thing done, then she's sure she can concentrate on everything else, patiently, for the rest of her life.
At what point should Mayan stop? Which dead end should be the last one? She knows the answer. Nothing -- not even the thought of discovering something terrible -- can make her quit, because giving up would mean that "this would rise up again and again."
What keeps Mayan going is her hope that she's in a kind of chrysalis state, her stubborn belief in the transforming power of the unknown, the about-to-happen. Something must be out there, something so wondrous that it can make even Mayan beautiful and wanted -- because the constant, secret question of her life, asked over and over again, is why she was unwanted. And trying to answer it has put her on a crushing cause-and-effect loop. "I believed the truth: I didn't have enough good in me. Not enough had been put in."
She wants, as her mother did, to be lifted out of her life. For that, she'll endure all the waste and devastation of the search; the search itself has become for her "more like love than love."
There are problems in dramatizing such single-mindedness, and the novel doesn't escape all of them. Mayan's utter neglect of her mother will perhaps seem more understandable to veterans of the first novel, who remember the emotional catastrophes visited upon the daughter. A good deal of repetition is used to render Mayan's obsessiveness, which over the course of roughly 500 pages can make us as impatient with the waiting as she is. Some of Mayan's musings and laments are repeated so often ("Maybe by the time you find somebody, they are beside the point") that they begin to sound like mantras. And periodically those repetitions start to sound like little thematic nuggets, aphorisms the reader is intended to carry away: "Disappearing was all you had to do to become somebody's god. And maybe being found was all it took to be mortal again."
And while a certain amount of stasis is to be expected in a novel about waiting, "The Lost Father" doesn't fully overcome that problem either. As in "Anywhere but Here," a journey forms the narrative skeleton, but "The Lost Father" is missing the constant warfare generated by the presence of the heartbreaking other. (The first novel begins, "We fought," the second, "We believed.") In "The Lost Father," the antagonist is almost always a presence only as an absence, the real war being within Mayan, and that puts a strain on the novel's narrative inventiveness. "All investigation is the same. You call a lot of different people," she tells us, and, unfortunately, in a way that's true.
The missing antagonist affects the book thematically as well; the attempt to understand parental neglect in the first novel continually changed because of the reader's access to the object of obsessive interest, an access for the most part denied in this new work. We miss too the opening up that was afforded the first novel by its other voices. While "Anywhere but Here" ends brilliantly, with the mother's memorable coda, in which she has her final say about ambition and stuns us with the layered self-deception and sincerity of her last declaration of love for her daughter, the ending of "The Lost Father" is more, and perhaps must be more, anticlimactic.
But it's mean-spirited to claim in that case to find "The Lost Father" wanting, because it's a superb book. Whatever the reader's hesitations, a wave of wanting to know does start building; it does become urgent that we see if Mayan ever finds her father and, if so, what happens next. And the portrait of Mayan that emerges is marvelous in its acuity and richness. "The thing I still love best about us, my mother and me," she says, "is that we wanted so." Ms. Simpson evokes precisely the gritty and visceral intensity of that need.
Despite her unhappiness, Mayan finds the world beautiful ("This was my only way of praying"), and the author's language can be breathtaking in the simple beauty of its imagery ("The streets felt quieter than Cairo," she says, speaking of Alexandria, "neighborhoods lower, the old sun like a bucket full of water spilled on the bricks") or in its combination of the lyrical and the astute ("When she made promises like that," Mayan observes of her mother, "her eyes filled to the surface as if the part of her that wished crossed the part of her that lied and gave a certain kind of smiling face with tears, like a rainbow"). Mona Simpson demonstrates, throughout this novel, a spectacular talent for rendering tumultuous emotional states with eloquence and economy. Speaking of the clarifying effect her father has had on her life, Mayan says, "He gave us ourselves back in real light." In its wisdom, grace, generosity and intelligence, "The Lost Father" does the same for us.
 
 
 
IMAGINING LIFE
 Mona Simpson hadn't planned to write a sequel to her first novel, "Anywhere but Here." "Actually, I started another novel," she said in a recent telephone interview from her apartment in Manhattan. "It wasn't coalescing and taking shape in a clear way. So -- you know how these things are -- one afternoon I had my pencil sharp ened and nothing much happened. I started writing a story about someone looking for her father, and it kind of took over. It was a surprise to me." Later it became clear to Ms. Simpson that the narrator of this story was the daughter from "Anywhere but Here."
Ms. Simpson, who teaches creative writing at Bard College, writes without an outline. "I work paragraph to paragraph or even line to line. I started out as a poet. I move at the pace of a poet, that's for sure. I'm certainly slow. I have an emotional sense of where things are going to, but I don't do a whole chart or anything like that."
In "The Lost Father," Mayan Stevenson, who is half-Egyptian, goes to North Africa to look for her father. "I wrote that section first," Ms. Simpson recalled, "and then went to Egypt to check it." She made very few corrections. "There were small inaccuracies, the number of miles from Cairo to Alexandria. . . . I did read a little about it. I'm half-Arabic, so my whole life I've had an imagination about the desert."
Would Ms. Simpson, who is 34 years old, call her work autobiographical? "I'm not sure what autobiography is," she replied. "If you're talking about -- strictly speaking -- events, then no. It's definitely not a memoir; it's definitely not nonfiction. If autobiography includes our imagination, then, of course, everything that we write is autobiographical. I think, for people who write fiction or poetry, our wager is that what we imagine is truer or as true to us as the mess of life and the mess that happens." -- SUSANNAH HUNNEWELL

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mona Simpson. (Ruven Afanador/Knopf)
 
Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LOST FATHER, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); EGYPT (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); EGYPT (70%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (93%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); IMMIGRATION (67%); 

PERSON: SHEPARD, JIM; SIMPSON, MONA ANN STEVENSON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



297 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 32; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4134 words

HEADLINE: Tom Harkin's Old-Time Religion

BYLINE: By Judith Miller; Judith Miller is the staff writer for The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
On a cold day in Manchester, N.H., in January, Senator Tom Harkin was preaching to the converted. He was talking to the board of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, many of whom were already wearing blue-and-white "Harkin for President" buttons. The stop at the end of a hard day of campaigning was billed as a courtesy call, since the union local had already endorsed his bid for the Democratic Presidential nomination. But Harkin was neither tired nor going through the motions.
As the union leaders gazed up at their standard-bearer adoringly -- the women in sensible shoes, the men in plaid flannel shirts, blue jeans and beards -- Harkin made a heartfelt pitch for help. 
 This Presidential race would be like a boxing match, he told them. "I know I can whip George Herbert Walker Bush," he said, slowly reciting Bush's four-part name to emphasize the President's patrician origins. "But I need you to open the ropes and give me a shove in the butt to get me into the ring. Once I'm in the ring, I know I can flatten him," Harkin said, his fists flailing the air. "But first, I gotta get there."
Despite a promising start and a large campaign war chest, Harkin, a craggy-faced, 52-year-old Horatio Alger-style populist, is having trouble getting into the ring. Bill Clinton, the Arkansas Governor, has been the front-runner since mid-January -- momentum that not even widely published, and vehemently denied, allegations of marital infidelity have significantly slowed. Meanwhile, opinion polls in December and January continued to register a steady slide in support for Harkin. A poll sponsored by The Boston Globe in late January ranked him next to last in the race, ahead of only Edmund G. Brown Jr., the former Governor of California. According to the Globe poll, Harkin, who has fashioned a campaign based on the theme that he is the only "real" Democrat in the race, was favored by only 8 percent of prospective New Hampshire voters.
While political professionals caution that Harkin cannot be written off yet, they also agree that his campaign has yet to catch fire. The question being debated among political pros is why. The dispute says much about the state of the Democratic Party today. It also provides some initial indicators about the kind of candidate Americans are most likely to be drawn to even during a period of intense economic distress and growing pessimism about the country's future. Moreover, Harkin's candidacy has crystallized into a tug of war among the party faithful over campaign strategy.
Harkin supporters argue that to win, Democrats must excite their traditional base and expand upon it by pushing the old-fashioned Democratic values -- support for the working class, the elderly, women, blacks and minorities, society's traditional underdogs against big business.
"I, for one, would like to see a campaign with a meat-and-potatoes Democrat, a campaign in which the traditional Democratic message is finally tested," says Lane Kirkland, the head of the nation's largest union group, the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which is remaining neutral in the race, at least until after New Hampshire.
But supporters of Clinton, of Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska and even of Paul E. Tsongas, the former Massachusetts Senator, maintain that to recapture the White House, Democrats must abandon the hackneyed Harkin rhetoric and articulate a more centrist political message that speaks to the amorphous "middle class." If Democrats are to win in November, the argument goes, they must stop frightening voters; they must recognize that many Americans today are as apprehensive about what Government can do to them as for them.
Because the first test of the 1992 campaign, the Iowa caucus tomorrow, has virtually been conceded to Harkin, the state's favorite son, the New Hampshire primary, which will be held Feb. 18, is shaping up as a critical referendum on the future direction of the Democratic Party and the message Democrats will present to Americans this November in their effort to beat George Bush.
CRITICS OF THE HARKIN CAMPAIGN FALL into three sometimes-overlapping categories: those who argue that Tom Harkin is a poor messenger with a winning political message; those who like the messenger but complain about the way the message is being packaged, and those who don't like the message at all.
Basically, Harkin's message is the old Democratic Party gospel with a Midwestern twang straight out of "The Grapes of Wrath." While the other Democratic candidates are selling what Harkin would call Republicanism with a heart, he declares class warfare. He portrays himself as the champion of "the little guy," of "the average working man and woman," battling against "the fat cats" who use their influence to grab an unfair share of the nation's goodies for themselves and their friends.
His is a latter-day prairie populist's blend of individualism, coupled with compassion for the less fortunate. He advocates a more active role for Government in rebuilding America's infrastructure and redressing the nation's economic and social ills, and a far less intrusive Government in citizens' private lives. Though he is a veteran of five terms in the House and the only Iowa Democrat to have won re-election to two consecutive terms in the Senate, there is something of the loner, the outsider, the radical in Harkin's voice.
"If you want a Democrat who is gonna tinker with the system, make some small changes in Reagan-Bush trickle-down economics, don't vote for me," he says in interviews and on camera. "But if you want a President who is gonna make major changes, invest in America to create jobs and get this country moving again, I'm your man."
Harkin is a man of liberal principle. Although a Catholic and personally opposed to abortion, he is staunchly for abortion rights. "For the life of me," Harkin says, "I can't understand why people who want to get the Government off our backs are perfectly content to see Government involved in the most intimate decision a woman can make." While Clinton and Kerrey (and apparently a majority of the electorate) favor capital punishment, Harkin denounces the practice as "uncivilized," noting that the United States joins the former Soviet Union and Libya in sanctioning the death penalty. Except for gun control -- he claims to like hunting -- he has what many liberals consider a nearly perfect record on civil liberties and civil rights issues.
In 1974, he offered and won approval for legislation banning foreign aid to countries that consistently violate human rights, a measure hailed for having put the Democrats squarely in favor of restoring "morality" in foreign policy. But his protectionist trade policies and isolationism -- he opposed the Gulf war, aid to the Nicaraguan contras and American involvement in Central America -- have alienated several liberal activist Democrats who would have been expected to support him.
"What you see is what you get," says his wife, Ruth, a tough-minded and well-liked lawyer at the influential Washington firm of Akin, Gump, Hauer & Feld. A former prosecutor and the first woman elected county attorney in Iowa, she is her husband's chief political adviser, or more accurately, she insists, the "longest serving."
Much of what Harkin is today is rooted in his harsh, impoverished childhood, which he flaunts. The son of a coal miner who did not finish eighth grade and an immigrant mother from Slovenia, he grew up in Cumming, Iowa, population 139, in a two-bedroom house without hot running water and a proper furnace. His mother died when he was a boy; his father died of black-lung disease. His brother Frank went deaf at the age of 9. "I came from the wrong side of the tracks," Harkin says proudly.
Actually, there is only one side of the tracks in Cumming, now virtually a suburb of Des Moines. Most of the people who live there are Harkins, or related to them. A totally Roman Catholic enclave, Cumming, founded in 1888, is the kind of town where lawn statues of the Virgin Mary vie for space with those of Mickey Mouse. There are only two streets in town; the school closed down years ago, and there is no longer a local grocery store. The busiest spot in town is the tavern.
What one neighbor, Ruth Knosby, remembers is his determination, even as a young boy. "Tom used to work for us pitching hay," she recounted. "The family always needed money. One day I looked out the window and saw young Tom standing atop a truckload of hay, catching the bales. All of a sudden, he lost his balance and fell -- it must have been more than 20 feet. He was all white and really had the breath knocked out of him. But when I suggested he rest and call it a day, he flatly refused. He jumped back up on that truck and finished the working day. That's Tom."
After his mother died, Harkin, an altar boy, went to Dowling Catholic High School in Des Moines and won a Navy R.O.T.C. scholarship to college. As a Navy pilot, he ferried supplies and planes between Japan and Vietnam. Contrary to some statements early in his political career, he never saw combat. And his early criticism of the Vietnam War and American foreign policy in general led Barry Goldwater and others to complain that he had fabricated, or at least exaggerated, his war record.
Harkin cites as his proud est legislative accomplishment the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, which guarantees some 43 million disabled Americans freedom from employment and housing discrimination. On the floor of the Senate, Harkin delivered part of his impassioned speech for the bill in sign language -- a special message to his brother.
In this campaign, Harkin has faced frequent accusations of being long on rhetoric and short on substance. Critics note that he has yet to provide the kind of detailed plan for national health care that Bob Kerrey and Paul Tsongas have proposed. Is Harkin's reluctance to offer a specific plan for the comprehensive health care he advocates related to his base in Iowa, home of some of the nation's largest insurance companies, many of which oppose publicly financed national care and which contribute heavily through political action committees to his campaign?
"No," the Senator says calmly. "I haven't done so because I'm not smart enough or knowledgeable enough to put together such a plan. I'm not a health-care specialist. What I've done is outline objectives that any system should meet. It's the job of a President to provide leadership -- to get the specialists in a room and tell them to devise a workable plan -- and to get that plan enacted within a year."
Harkin instinctively recoils from Clinton's turgid recitation of Census Bureau statistics, from Kerrey's penchant for autobiography, from Tsongas's pessimism and little gray guide to reindustrializing America. His is a world not of complex, international problems but of good guys and bad guys, of the long-suffering poor and the greedy, undeserving rich. All that is required, Harkin maintains, is a leader strong enough to give the Government back to the people. That does not necessarily mean spending more money, he says repeatedly. "The B-2 bomber was a huge public-works program," Harkin says, "but what has the average American gotten out of it?"
Besides comprehensive health and day care, he favors a national youth corps that would enable every qualified young American to attend college; extended unemployment benefits; national job retraining for victims of technological obsolescence, and $35 billion worth of infrastructure investment in his first year of office. All this can be financed, he claims, through defense cuts and by eliminating Government waste and corruption -- an assertion critics contest.
"Tom Harkin is the real McCoy, a true populist," says Erwin Knoll, editor of The Progressive Magazine, the nation's second-oldest political magazine, founded by another prairie populist, (Fighting) Bob LaFollette. "But I'm not sure the Democratic Party is populist any longer. The Democrats have moved so far to the right. They've marginalized people like Harkin."
WILLIAM SCHNEIDER, A political analyst at the Washington-based American Enterprise Institute, insists that there is still a vast potential audience for what Harkin is saying. According to a Time magazine-CNN poll last month, 55 percent of Democrats and independents who leaned toward the Democratic Party said they would support a candidate who favors "traditional Democratic goals of helping people through Government programs." By contrast, only 38 percent said they would prefer a candidate who espoused "limited and less costly Government programs."
But so far, Tom Harkin does not seem to have reached or convinced this audience. That, according to some analysts, is because of flaws in the messenger, not the message. While Harkin's flamboyant style, his salty, down-home, Trumanesque "plain talk" and even his highly personal attacks on George Bush may have won him applause on the stump early in his campaign, they don't play well on national television. "Americans have enormous respect for the office of the Presidency. They don't want to see their President as foulmouthed, as a guy yelling a barnyard profanity as Harkin did from the podium," says Schneider. Americans, apparently, despite their jokes about George Bush's convoluted speech, would really prefer to hear their Presidents say "doo-doo."
In focus group after focus group, Harkin gets higher negative ratings than the other candidates. Ann F. Lewis, former political director of the Democratic National Committee and now an independent analyst, says the often humorous but sometimes vulgar talk is partly responsible.
Harkin's new television ads, the first of which shows excerpts from a stem-winding oration on the campaign trail, have also come in for criticism. "It's just too hot for television," says Kathleen Hall Jamieson, dean of the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania. The second ad, in which a more subdued Harkin softly delivers his message to a nonvisible interviewer, also falls flat, Jamieson says. "We call his more subdued effort the 'tie in the crotch' ad," she says. "Because what people mentioned was not what he said, but that tie dangling between his knees."
Some argue that Harkin's campaign was also hurt by the man-of-the-people's retreat from New Hampshire over the Christmas holidays to his family vacation home in the Bahamas. Others say that his staff lacks sufficient experience in national political races, and that he started his radio and television advertising far too late. There also seems little doubt that Harkin has paid a price for not cultivating close friends and champions in the news media and the professional political fraternity.
By all accounts, the Harkins, along with their two daughters, Amy, 15, and Jenny, 10, are a close-knit and private family. Harkin appears to prefer the company of his children to that of political and media celebrities. But his social aloofness has fostered the impression that he is testy, arrogant and hard to get along with.
"In Iowa, he is more respected for his voting record than liked," says David A. Yepsen, chief political correspondent for The Des Moines Register. "Most people feel they would rather vote for him than have dinner with him."
For all Harkin's philosophical consistency and eloquent conviction, there are a lot of Democrats, even in Iowa, who simply don't care much for him. While those who know and like him describe him as an honest, tough-minded and very decent man, Harkin often comes across to those who don't know him as sour and small, as the man who shows up to repair your washing machine. Not Presidential.
Some party officials still contend that Mario Cuomo could have delivered a version of Harkin's message with far greater credibility and effectiveness. "Mario is, well, Presidential," says one Democratic official. "And Harkin just isn't."
But others in the party disagree. The problem, they say, is not the messenger or his delivery. The problem is the message itself, particularly in New Hampshire, among the nation's most conservative states.
"The message plays well in Iowa because it comes from there and because Iowans are old," says Yepsen, pointing out that the state is demographically the third-oldest in the country. The average Iowa voter is more than 50. The average age of New Hampshire voters, by contrast, is almost five years younger.
Since he declared for the Presidency, Harkin has tended to attract older crowds than either Kerrey, 48, or Clinton, 45. Even the candidates' music reflects a generation gap. Harkin kicked off his campaign to the strains of country music from a local Iowa band, while Kerrey initiated his to Bruce Springsteen's "Born to Run." And while the age difference among them is not that great, Harkin comes across, as does Paul Tsongas, as far older, from another generation.
During a recent campaign stop at a high school in Dover, N.H., the eyes of the student body collectively glazed over as Harkin recounted the glorious achievements of his Democratic forefathers -- Roosevelt, Truman and Kennedy. "Who's Truman?" one gum-chewing blonde asked her girlfriend.
"The audience for Harkin's message is literally and figuratively dying," says Mike McCurry, the senior communications adviser to Kerrey. "It's just not appealing to the baby boomers, the geodemographic bulge that accounted for the Republican ascendancy of the 80's and that might signal a new Democratic resurgence in the 90's. These are people with virtually no party affiliations. The imagery of Roosevelt's New Deal simply does not resonate with them."
Because Iowans know their home-grown populism when they hear it, they are also less likely than most Americans to mistake it for the dreaded Northeastern liberalism. "I think part of the reason that Harkin doesn't seem to be catching on," says Peter Fenn, a Washington-based independent political consultant, "is that people in New Hampshire don't see Harkin as a populist, but as a knee-jerk, dyed-in-the-wool, big-spending liberal."
The subtle but critical difference between Harkin's populist message and standard liberalism -- his emphasis not so much on expanding Government programs, which all the candidates favor to some degree, but on class warfare -- is all but lost on most voters.
When Harkin speaks, what comes across is the big "L" word, as Jamieson puts it, which is particularly disabling in New Hampshire, home of John H. Sununu and a license plate that reads "Live Free or Die." Polls show that across the country five times the number of people surveyed think that liberal is a dirty word rather than a positive one. But the ratio is 13 to 1 in New Hampshire. "Liberal there is tantamount to sodomy," Jamieson says.
Moreover, while Harkin identifies himself as the only real Democrat in the race, 45 percent of those who voted in the New Hampshire Democratic primary in 1984 and 1988 identified themselves as independents or Republicans, says Stan B. Greenberg, a poll taker for Clinton. This was particularly true of younger voters. "So he's running as a real Democrat when 45 percent of the electorate by definition doesn't care," he says.
Harkin argues that while New Hampshire Republicans may be more conservative than their counterparts in other states, the state's Democrats are not. Former United States Representative John Durkin, the co-chair of Harkin's New Hampshire campaign, agreed. "In 1988, New Hampshire would have elected Jack the Ripper if he were a Republican," he says. "But in 1992, the 'L' word stands for only two things: 'laid off' or 'losing my job.' " Much of the state's high-tech industry has been ravaged by the recession; some 50,000 jobs have left the state; five of the largest banks have folded; personal bankruptcies rose an estimated 75 percent last year, and even the state chairman of the Democratic Party, Chris Spirou, is in danger of having his home mortgage foreclosed.
Despite the intense voter anger, alienation and economic misery, concerns about Harkin's message have surfaced repeatedly. In January, Susan Vallone Joyce, a Harkin supporter, invited 35 neighbors to her home in Epping to meet the Iowa Senator. (She also invited Clinton, but was told that the Governor would not attend any function that could not guarantee a crowd of at least 100.) After Harkin left, several people said that although they liked him and found much of what he had to say appealing, they feared that higher taxes would be required to pay for the ambitious Federal projects he had outlined. "I don't think pulling our troops out of Europe is going to be enough to finance all those programs," Mark Kucera, an independent, said afterwards. Bonnie M. Meroth, a freelance journalist and marketing consultant in New Hampshire, had similar fears. "The ideas are terrific and he expresses them well, but who is going to fund these enormously expensive programs?"
Paradoxically, Harkin's populist razzmatazz might have been more appealing to Democrats when President Bush was soaring in the polls and the party had little to lose by nominating a candidate who reflected its conscience and tradition. "The Bush bashing and the old-time Democratic religion worked better when it stirred people's memories and seemed a healthy nostalgic indulgence," says Schneider. But as Bush started falling in the polls and the Democrats smelled possible Republican defeat, the party leadership began looking for a more electable candidate.
A bitter reality for Harkin is that his message may be working far more than his competitors care to admit -- but not for him. Robert Kuttner, a writer who specializes in economic issues, argues that the most appealing themes of Harkin's populism are turning up more frequently in the speeches of the other candidates.
But Harkin's words in the mouth of Bill Clinton or Bob Kerrey come across differently. "When you hear Harkin talk about investment in infrastructure," says Greenberg, "you automatically think brick and mortar and construction jobs. But New Hampshire is very suburban, so a message that comes across as blue-collar working-class doesn't work."
Kevin Phillips, the Republican political analyst Harkin most admires, agrees. Phillips has argued that Republicans will eventually pay for their policies of the 1980's, which produced extraordinary concentrations of wealth at the top of society and neglected the middle class. But Harkin has not got his message across, Phillips contends, because "prairie populism has little resonance among the middle-class inhabitants of the cities and suburbs, where most Americans now live," he says. "Harkin doesn't talk to George Wallace country, or to people in Silicon Valley, or to people with low-paying jobs in Syosset, L.I."
Harris Wofford's stunning upset in Pennsylvania's Senate race in November showed that a more polished middle-class version of Tom Harkin, coupled with a populist and protectionist message, can win. What is needed, says Phillips, "is a populist message grafted onto a basically middle-class appeal" -- middle-class populism, in other words.
Harkin asserts that the leaders of his party are simply not as responsive to his message as rank-and-file Democrats. But some labor leaders who would normally be supporting Harkin overwhelmingly, given his solid union credentials, are leaning toward Clinton's more moderate, pro-business message.
Again, electability is the key. Gerald W. McEntee, international president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, recently praised Clinton, despite the Arkansas Governor's often-fractious relations with public employees in his own state. "I knew we could get 90 percent of our agenda with Tom Harkin and only about 60 to 65 percent with Clinton," says McEntee. "But with George Bush we would get only single digits. So because our people are hurting, gaining the White House is critical to me."
He loved the Senator's message, McEntee added, "but Harkin's speech is the speech I give, and I can't be elected President."
Jeff Faux, president of the Economic Policy Institute in Washington, a liberal think tank with ties to labor, says the Democratic Party is suffering from a debilitating lack of self-confidence that works against candidates of conscience like Harkin. "Tom Harkin looks like a Democrat and sounds like a Democrat and makes the faithful feel like Democrats, so there must be something wrong with him, they think," Faux says.
A succession of Democratic losses in Presidential bids has created what he calls "the Groucho Marx syndrome" within the party -- "the feeling that any club that would have us as members can't be worth joining."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Harkin talking to members of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, among the few friendly faces he has found while campaigning in New Hampshire. Addressing students at Dover High School in Dover, N.H. (Photographs by Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY BOSTON GLOBE (53%); INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); RELIGION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); BOXING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); RANKINGS (68%); 

PERSON: HARKIN, TOM (SEN); MILLER, JUDITH TOM HARKIN (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (71%); BILL CLINTON (58%); JERRY BROWN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



298 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2021 words

HEADLINE: The Photo Op: Making Icons or Playing Politics?

BYLINE: By CHARLES HAGEN; Charles Hagen is a critic who writes frequently about photography and art.

DATELINE: WOODSVILLE, N.H.

 BODY:
The scene comes out of the best tradition of American barnstorming politics, as practiced in the media age. Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative television commentator and maverick candidate for the Republican Presidential nomination in the New Hampshire primary on Feb. 18, is in the middle of a daylong campaign blitz along the western edge of the state. By late morning the candidate has made his way to Butson's supermarket in Woodsville. Trailed by a ramshackle army of campaign aides and media people, microphone booms raised like halberds, he enters the store in search of votes.
Halfway down the first aisle he accepts a slice of pizza from a young woman handing out samples. As he begins to munch, photographers and television crews jostle for position in front of him, TV lights blazing and photographic strobes flashing. After a moment, Mr. Buchanan heads down another aisle and buys a ticket for the New Hampshire lottery. Again, photographers and television crews cluster eagerly, as he holds up the ticket and half-eaten slice of pizza. 
 So goes another in the seemingly endless series of similar events that make up the daily routine of a modern political campaign. These carefully crafted "photographic opportunities," half real and half symbolic, have become the main activity of most candidates' days.
New Hampshire in primary season becomes the "mother lode of photo ops," as Barry Piatt, a press aide to Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, puts it. In these intricate ritual dances of candidates and news people, the purpose of photographing the campaign can get lost beneath the visual equivalent of empty rhetoric.
Many people trace the rise of the by-now-infamous photo op to news editors' demands for a steady stream of colorful and simplistic images. Others blame Ronald Reagan's well-oiled 1980 Presidential campaign. "Setting up the situation, photo op, photo op, photo op -- this is a new language that didn't really exist before 1980," says Arthur Grace, a former Newsweek photographer and a veteran of many campaigns. Now, he says, "everyone's taking a page out of Reagan's book."
While the images that result from these essentially theatrical events invoke cherished and powerful symbols of American public life, they rarely have much esthetic interest or freshness. But they play a central role in shaping public perceptions of the candidates and of the political process as a whole.
In itself, the fact that photo ops are built around symbols is not bad. Symbols sum up complex and important values, and the campaigns offer voters an opportunity to reaffirm shared beliefs about themselves and the country. But as candidates try to exert tighter control over images and their meanings, the pictures end up being more predictable. What's lost is the sense of the candidates as real people. It is the unexpected, unplanned detail -- what the late French critic Roland Barthes termed the punctum -- that serves as the photograph's badge of authenticity. In photo ops, such details usually appear only by accident.
In most news photographs, esthetics are necessarily secondary to facts. But occasionally, pictures like Robert Frank's magisterial images of a row of top-hatted politicians in Hoboken or an impassioned orator in Chicago -- both from his classic 1958 book, "The Americans" -- define the nature of politics more clearly than any political-science treatise could. Other images -- whether of Adlai Stevenson with his legs crossed, revealing the hole in his shoe, or of Harry Truman gleefully holding aloft a premature copy of The Chicago Tribune proclaiming Dewey's victory -- have etched themselves into the national memory. While it is possible that an iconic image of this sort may come out of this year's election, the business of campaign photography has largely been reduced to a mechanical exchange of formulaic images with little if any life left in them.
The underlying strategy of photo ops is the same as that of most ads: pose the candidate (or the product) with symbols of appealing values, in the hope that viewers will equate the two. In beer commercials these values can include the camaraderie symbolized by a welcoming group of guys in a bar, or the sexual abandon implied by a gaggle of bikini-clad cuties. For a Presidential candidate, the values include patriotism -- where there's a candidate, there's sure to be a flag -- as well as physical vigor, compassion and honesty. Photo ops can also be used to send subtle messages about the candidate's class allegiances. When Mr. Buchanan, a rich man by the standards of most Americans, holds up his pizza and lottery ticket, he's not only carrying out a time-honored ritual expected of a serious candidate, but he is also paying homage to the working-class values these objects embody.
Most photo ops are built around a core of reality, but "there is a line you cross where these supposedly spontaneous events are actually totally staged," says Steve Liss, who recently photographed Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas for Time magazine. He notes that when President Bush, on a recent trip through New Hampshire, stopped to greet a farmer standing in his field with a cow, the event was presented by campaign aides as unplanned. Later, the farmer was identified as a co-chairman of the local Bush campaign committee. "You could be taken for an idiot if you played into this kind of thing," Mr. Liss says. "And a lot of media people do."
Factories are always popular campaign stops, but given the parlous state of New Hampshire's economy, they've become especially prominent this year as sites for photo ops. The other day, both Mr. Buchanan and Governor Clinton visited factories, but each tried to give a different slant to the symbolism involved. Mr. Buchanan, to underscore his contention that American jobs are being lost to foreign competitors, spoke outside an abandoned factory in North Haverhill. Governor Clinton, in a more positive vein, toured the American Brush Company factory in Claremont, where better cooperation between labor and management has helped improve business. Despite the different messages the candidates were trying to put across, the resulting photographs showed simply two more factory visits -- and the limits on the kinds of information that photo ops can convey. Complex points of policy do not translate well into photographs.
Children, too, are naturals on the photo op circuit, and candidates make it a point to be photographed with them. Thus, an earlier stop in Mr. Buchanan's whirlwind tour of Woodsville was at the local elementary school, where he fielded questions from third-graders.
Occasionally, photo ops get out of hand, and residents balk at taking part. The week before Mr. Buchanan's visit, Vice President Dan Quayle had also dropped in at Woodsville Elementary, and in shoving for position around him the photographers had knocked over some children. As a result, the principal was reluctant to let the media in to record Mr. Buchanan's visit. But campaign aides promised that the press would be on its best behavior, and the photo op went on.
Candidates often find themselves scrapping over the same potent symbols. That evening in Manchester, Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, who has made much of his service in Vietnam, was scheduled to appear at V.F.W. Post 79. The small, smoky hall, filled with weathered men in flannel shirts and women in bowling jackets, would seem to be the perfect place to make a pitch for patriotism and working-class values. But when the Senator, a Democrat, and his staff arrived, they found that they had been upstaged. Representative Robert C. Dornan of California, himself a Vietnam vet, had been stumping the state for President Bush and had dropped in on the same post half an hour earlier. A number of the television crews and print reporters there to cover Senator Kerrey's visit wound up interviewing Mr. Dornan instead. In the end, the images of the two men were much the same, with such subtleties as party differences conveyed only in picture captions.
Often, the message conveyed by a photo op is only peripherally related to the stated issues of the campaign. A photograph distributed by the Associated Press on Jan. 21 recorded a photo op in which former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts appeared at a pond in Concord to announce support from various environmental groups. The photograph, which was printed the next day by The Manchester Union Leader, showed the sweater-clad Senator about to throw a football. The Union Leader didn't even mention the ostensible purpose of the event, thus gutting the occasion of any but symbolic content. But the photograph did demonstrate that Senator Tsongas was a regular guy, especially coming as it did just after the Super Bowl. In a less obvious way, it also offered evidence of the candidate's good health -- which some might see as an issue, given his successful fight against cancer nearly a decade ago.
Staged photographs can backfire. Earlier in the campaign, Governor Clinton appeared at a bowling alley in the kind of photo op no doubt intended to demonstrate that he, too, has the common touch. But when the tabloid Star ran a picture taken there, along with an article alleging that the singer Gennifer Flowers had had an affair with the Governor, the picture took on very different connotations. It showed Governor Clinton putting on a pair of bowling shoes, but The Star ran it next to a photograph of Ms. Flowers lolling on a bed. Because of the juxtaposition, the Governor appeared to be sitting on the edge of the bed, looking over his shoulder toward Ms. Flowers. Elsewhere, The Star paired photographs taken at different times and places of Governor Clinton and Ms. Flowers on the telephone, suggesting through the layout that they might have been talking to each other.
Fed up with photo ops, some photographers try to find fresh ways to reveal the workings of the campaign and the personalities of the candidates. In the 1988 campaign, Arthur Grace photographed the candidates for Newsweek in black and white, using a Rolleiflex camera rather than the 35-millimeter cameras standard among photojournalists today. "It was a tremendous discipline," he reports. Because the Rolleiflex allows only 12 shots per roll and does not have interchangeable lenses, Mr. Grace says, "it forces you to think about what you're doing."
Whereas most campaign photographs are tightly cropped and simplistically composed, Mr. Grace's pictures have a refreshing looseness. They often catch candidates off guard or show the machinery of the photo op, as well as the central symbolic event. Some of his portraits were used in the magazine during the primary season, and more than 20 appeared in a special issue about the election. A year later, the portraits were published by the University Press of New England in the book "Choose Me: Portraits of a Presidential Race."
Mark Peterson, a 36-year-old photographer for the JB picture agency in New York, who has been following Governor Clinton in this campaign, says that he often finds the audiences more revealing than the candidates themselves. "At this point, the candidates are so polished," he says, "that the most interesting thing to photograph is the people who come to the rallies." He used this approach in covering David Duke in his campaign for the Louisiana governorship. "Sometimes you could capture the anger on their faces," Mr. Peterson says, "better than you'd ever get it from looking at him."
Steven Rubin has turned away from photographing the candidates altogether. For several months, Mr. Rubin, a 35-year-old freelancer from New York, has been photographing families, unemployment lines, soup kitchens and other situations that, to him, reflect the issues of the campaign. He says that he turned to his new direction because of his dissatisfaction with photo ops. "I found it boring and wearing to be chasing the candidates all the time," Mr. Rubin says. "And in the end your picture is different only because you're standing two inches to the left of the next photographer."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul Tsongas and entourage, at left, face off against photographers in Concord, N.H. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Homeless children being served a hot dinner by church workers--Steven Rubin has turned away from photographing the candidates altogether and instead is focusing on the issues of the campaign. (Steven Rubin/JB Pictures); The candidate Patrick Buchanan tries some pizza for the cameras. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PUBLIC LIFE INSURANCE CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW HAMPSHIRE UNITED STATES (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); IOWA, USA (79%); CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; PRIMARIES; PHOTOGRAPHY CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); LOTTERIES (68%); 

PERSON: HAGEN, CHARLES RONALD REAGAN (79%); TOM HARKIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



299 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2648 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
The Public and Private Lives of Joan Collins

BYLINE: By ALEX WITCHEL

DATELINE: MIAMI

 BODY:
They came with their binoculars, lips pursed, arms crossed, smelling blood.
"Fifty-two? She's only 52?" 
 "That's all she admits to."
Binoculars are brandished. "I'll count the wrinkles for you."
"I'll bet there won't be any. But you could check behind her ears and see why."
"God, you sound just like Joan Rivers."
"Her arms are heavy."
"Darling, I'd like to look like that, let me tell you."
"Well, I think she looks better on TV."
It's just another Friday night at the theater in Miami Beach, where these nice folks have come to see Joan Collins star in her pre-Broadway tour of Noel Coward's 1930 comedy "Private Lives."
Noel who?
Miss Collins, who will turn 59 in May, won all of these loyal fans during her years on the television show "Dynasty," in which she played Alexis Carrington, a ruthless businesswoman who always dressed for the kill. Now, in a bid to be taken seriously as a stage actress, she begins previews Tuesday night on Broadway in the role of Amanda Prynne, which has been immortalized by Gertrude Lawrence, Tallulah Bankhead and Maggie Smith, and more recently recycled by Elizabeth Taylor as a vehicle for herself and Richard Burton.
The English actor Simon Jones is Miss Collins's co-star in the production directed by Arvin Brown, opening on Feb. 20 at the Broadhurst Theater for eight weeks. The play is about a divorced couple who encounter each other on their honeymoons with their new spouses, and the dialogue is filled with the kind of one-liners and clipped rejoinders that "Dynasty" strained to imitate.
The tour of "Private Lives" began in Denver in October, then went to 10 more cities over 16 weeks. Reviews have been mixed. But the peanut gallery in Miami knows all about it.
"I heard that, surprisingly, she has a real comedic flair."
"I read that when she was 16 years old she was in this play as the maid, and she watched the leading girl and said, 'One day I'll do that.' "
"She's definitely wearing a wig."
While in Miami, Miss Collins is staying at secluded Williams Island, a collection of luxury condominiums with a security system that features everything but a strip search. She is in a penthouse apartment reserved for V.I.P.'s, a duplex filled with unnaturally large white furniture and odd pieces of statuary. On a glass coffee table are her books -- Katharine Hepburn's "Me," Patrick McGilligan's biography of George Cukor and a pile of magazines. Also a box of Scrabble, which, along with poker, is her favorite diversion from life on the road.
She makes an entrance, of course. Her assistant, traveling companion, cook, nanny and longtime friend, Judy Bryer, answers the door and Miss Collins enters, stage right, rushing down the staircase. A white terry-cloth turban hides her hair but highlights her cheekbones and huge slate-blue eyes. She is wearing a white sleeveless Donna Karan bodysuit with white linen pants, a white belt with a gold buckle, and white mules. (Mules!) On one wrist is a gold-and-diamond bracelet, on the other just gold. The entire effect is that Joan Crawford's very pretty sister has just swept into the room, perhaps expecting a manicure.
 
Penthouse Picnic
Paul Newman In a Bottle
 But she is expecting lunch. Ms. Bryer has prepared it in the apartment's spacious white kitchen. On each plate is a tomato stuffed with chicken salad made with mayonnaise, along with deviled eggs, bread and butter, potato salad made with mayonnaise, and a bottle of Paul Newman's salad dressing. Cholesterol, anyone?
Miss Collins is chatty, and she eats with entitlement. "I feel the performance is getting stale," she says. "You need a superabundance of energy to make it sound like the first time. I did it 200 times in London and over 150 now. I said I would only do six weeks, but the negotiations got extremely complicated. It went to nine weeks, then 16 weeks -- sort of a snowball that gathered momentum."
Didn't the tour get longer because the producer, Charles Duggan, needed to make money on the road, since the Broadhurst has only 1,100 seats, and the theaters on the road, like the Jackie Gleason in Miami Beach, have 3,000 seats? And isn't it true that her own salary, which is high and also includes a percentage of the gross weekly receipts over a certain amount, warrants extra bookings so he can afford it all?
She sits very still in the sunlight and her pupils constrict to pinpoints. There's a dangerous moment of silence. "I'm a businesswoman but I'm not business-minded," she says, finally. "The ins and outs of business machinations I find intensely boring. I hate having to look after my money. I'm good at making money and extremely good at spending it. Is there any butter?"
(In a telephone interview, Mr. Duggan declined to discuss figures, but he allowed that the $25,000 rumored to be Miss Collins's weekly salary was "in the right ballpark. And," he said, a tinge of victory in his voice, "that was significantly less than what she had discussed with the first set of producers who were to bring the show to New York.")
Miss Collins has located the butter. "I've been an actress for 41 years, and I've never played Broadway," she says. "It is the apogee of an actor's existence. I've played the West End three times, and I've done everything, including producing. The most thrilling thing is to be on the Great White Way. And as far as the tour, I thought it would be interesting. I'd see America. Do my damned best."
 
Parfumist and Milliner
Five Books, Four Husbands
 When it comes to sheer will and perseverance, Miss Collins is hard to beat. She has become a major celebrity as an actress (though since the 1950's, critics have given her more credit for how she wears her clothes than how she says her lines), and she has sustained that celebrity through her writing (her 1978 autobiography, "Past Imperfect," was a best seller, as were her two novels, "Prime Time" and "Love and Hate and Desire"). Despite the mixed reviews the novels received, she is under contract to Turtle Bay Books for two more. Random House, its parent company, paid $4 million for them, according to her agent, Irving (Swifty) Lazar. There are also Joan Collins eyeglasses and jewelry and perfume. One season, there were even hats.
She has been called a poor man's Elizabeth Taylor -- great beauty, third-rate film roles -- but Miss Collins is a different breed. While Ms. Taylor seems to collapse with pneumonia or exhaustion every other week, a tabloid Camille whose fragility fascinates, Miss Collins is brazenly healthy and ferociously energetic. If her sneezes don't capture the public's imagination, she'll find something thatwill.
Certainly, her history with men has always been a good read. She has been married four times. First, to the British actor Maxwell Reed, who raped her on their first date; she divorced him after he tried to sell her to an Arab sheik for 10,000 sterling. She had a son and a daughter with her second husband, the actor Anthony Newley, whom she says she divorced for being unfaithful. She had another daughter with her third husband, Ron Kass, an American businessman. When the child was 8, she was hit by a car and suffered severe head injuries; Miss Collins practically moved into the hospital, helping to bring her out of a coma. Her daughter recovered, but the marriage did not last. Kass died of cancer after their divorce. Her fourth husband was Peter Holm, a Swede 12 years her junior, who took her to court in a highly publicized alimony trial, trying to win $80,000 a month in support. He lost. And, in addition to her husbands she has written about her numerous affairs, including those with Warren Beatty (to whom she was engaged) and Rafael Trujillo Jr., the son of the former dictator of the Dominican Republic.
"Do you want some fruit?" she is asking. "Judy has gone out." She stands in front of an open cabinet staring blankly at its shelves. She can't seem to find any bowls. "I'm not terribly good in the kitchen," she says, settling for coffee. She moves back to the living room, to the largest white couch, takes off her mules and sits cross-legged. Her toenails and fingernails are fire-engine red.
"Out of eight performances a week, I think I give two that are good," she says. "I think that's true for most actors. I look at film actors like Robert De Niro or Meryl Streep and say, yes, what they are doing is very good. But would it still be good if they did it 300 times? That's the challenge."
She praises her cast, including her co-star, Mr. Jones. "No prima donnas, no problems," she says. When "Private Lives" was in London, Miss Collins's co-star was Keith Baxter. According to people who worked on that production, the two hated each other so much they wouldn't even look at each other onstage. And when a young actress named Sara Crowe got good reviews in a secondary role, it is said that Miss Collins was not amused.
"I don't like speaking badly of anyone," she demurs. "I think Keith Baxter did a very good job. He just wasn't quite right for America. Look, I'm used to getting bad press. I don't let it bother me. If I read something wicked about me, the next day I've forgotten it. I don't bear grudges."
Is she controlling? "Well, on 'Dynasty' I only controlled what I wore and how I said my part, so that was eight and a half years without control. But I do feel it's time that my life is my life. At 17, I started as an actress and was told what to do for decades and, frankly, 'Dynasty' gave me the financial clout to say no. Now, unless a job is fun or challenging, I won't do it. But I can't be someone who does nothing. I like working."
Mr. Duggan recalls: "When we were planning 'Private Lives,' I flew to London to meet with Joan. She had come for two days from her house in the south of France. That first day she filmed a television commercial from 6 A.M. till 5 P.M., when she had root canal. At 8 she went to a party in her honor, and by 2 that morning her kids were asking when they could go home. Joan left the dance floor at 4.
"The night before we opened in Washington, she stayed up until 3 A.M. playing poker. And won. She was up for rehearsal the next morning, no problem. She is always the first to arrive at rehearsal and the first to arrive at the theater."
That kind of energy doesn't just happen. Her father, Joe Collins, was a British talent agent who was extremely hard to please. When Miss Collins was 18, she was voted the most beautiful girl in England by a group of photographers. When they asked her father for a comment he said, "I'm amazed. She's a nice-looking girl, but she's no beauty." It seems to explain a lot.
She agrees, but she also defends him. "My father always said that no one will do anything for you, so you were only as good as what you could do for yourself. When I wanted to become an actress, he became an investor in a theater at Maidstone so I could be an assistant stage manager and learn from the bottom up. Though when I married the first time, he told me that if the marriage didn't work he'd never speak to me again."
Just how much is 10,000 sterling, anyway? She doesn't miss a beat. "Oh, the Arab sheik. Right. Well, 10,000 in the 1950's" -- she does a lightning-speed computing of exchange rates, juggling them for inflation. "About $200,000," she concludes. At least it was a good price. She agrees. And laughs.
Not that she would let on if it still bothered her. "I don't really allow myself to show emotion," she says, matter-of-factly. "I'm a British woman born at a certain time, and the motto of my generation was 'Never explain, never complain.' During the alimony trial with Peter, if I had broken down in the courtroom there would have been more sympathy for me." She shrugs.
She says she misses her mother, who died of cancer in 1962 at the age of 51. "What's that saying -- a girl needs a father when she's growing up, but she needs a mother all her life? I didn't approve of her life style because she devoted her time and energy to being a mother and a wife. She was the kindest, gentlest, sweetest woman, and I didn't appreciate it. I was too young. I think I've been as good a mother as I can be, though I have had rifts with my girls. You always rebel against your mother."
Mr. Lazar says she is an exemplary mother. "I admire her endlessly," he says. "After her daughter was hit by the car, Joan was in that hospital every day from 6 A.M. to midnight, holding that kid's hand, yelling and screaming at those doctors, firing them and hiring new ones. There's no way that child would have survived without her."
 
Men: Younger vs. Older
'I Don't Compete With 25-Year-Olds'
 Her self-assurance seems limitless, even on the subject of dating younger men. Her current beau is a 34-year-old British art dealer named Robin Hurlstone. This afternoon, he makes a brief appearance, and although Miss Collins has been lolling on the sofa for an hour, it is not until Mr. Hurlstone comes into the room that she is suddenly lolling with cleavage. Which disappears as soon as he leaves. Quite a talent, that.
She posed nude for Playboy when she was 50, but now, almost 10 years later, does she ever feel insecure about her looks? Wouldn't older men be more tolerant of physical imperfections than younger men?
"I don't compete with 25-year-olds, but I don't think it is a question of competing," she says with a confidence rare in a woman of any age. "How many young women do you know who look perfect? It's sad for people to think you can only hold onto a man at the peak of your peach perfection, because it doesn't even happen then.
"It's not a question of losing looks that worries me. It's losing energy, getting arthritis or cancer, or going deaf. Sure, I'd like to be taller, thinner, younger. My looks have helped my career, but they've hindered it as well. I have also done good work in which no one can see past the image of my sexuality. I've always loved life -- parties, discos, trips, men -- along with mothering. That's the dichotomy. People have tried to put me in one category -- bitchy, glamorous socialite who doesn't take her work seriously."
Esther Shapiro, the co-creator of "Dynasty" says, "Joan's public persona is of a flamboyant star, but she also has great humor. We knew we were casting a soap and needed someone not only larger than life but who could send herself up."
Miss Collins says, "I know it sounds facile, but I'm a happy person. Why shouldn't I be? I have luck and advantages, the bad things, too, but I have the mental metabolism to be able to take all of that and say, look, I've wanted to do 'Private Lives' all my life, I'm on my way to Broadway, I'm sitting here in a penthouse in Miami, my children are well and healthy, I have a happy life with Robin. All this analyzing is really not me."
There's time for a brief game of Scrabble before she must rest and leave for the theater. Her first word is noose. She hunches over the board, fiercely concentrated, computing triple-point blocks before they've been won. Her face is flushed. She plays to conquer.
Just one tacky question. What does she think of Kathlyn Bening Beatty, the newborn daughter of her former fiance and the actress Annette Bening? "Why would you ask me that?" she asks innocently, perhaps pretending not to remember that she has written about aborting the child she and Mr. Beatty conceived. "That was 30 years ago," she says, "but you could say I think that people who have a child together should marry." She smiles sweetly. "If that was my daughter, I would want her to be married."
It's teatime and Judy is starting to hover. After all this work, all these weeks of rehearsing and traveling and performing, what will she do if she flops on Broadway?
Her eyes are very steady and her back is very straight. "I'll be heartbroken, yes. But I'll get over it. I really will."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joan Collins, costumed by William Ivey Long for "Private Lives," arrives Tuesday on Broadway -- "People have tried to put me in one category: bitchy, glamorous socialite who doesn't take her work seriously." (Photographs by Gregory Heisler for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Drawing of Joan Collins (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: PRIVATE LIVES (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (88%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (60%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (60%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); 

PERSON: WITCHEL, ALEX; COLLINS, JOAN JOAN HENRIETTA COLLINS (94%); JOAN RIVERS (57%); NOEL PIERCE COWARD (56%); MAGGIE NATALIE SMITH (55%); ELIZABETH TAYLOR (54%); RICHARD BURTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



300 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
From Coast to Coast, the Airlines Mean Business

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE

 BODY:
IT may not be a shooting war in the airlines' business class, but it sure looks like intense competition. On the most heavily traveled United States air route, between New York and Los Angeles, it was once difficult to get anything comfortable -- that is, anything other than crowded coach class -- if you did not want to pay steep first-class fares. Now airlines, which have long offered business class internationally, are adding business class compartments and seats domestically, enhancing service and pushing tickets that cost more than the rarely paid full coach fare but less than first-class fare. By one estimate, the average price paid one-way for a transcontinental trip in coach class at the end of 1991 was $396; business class tickets can be $400 to $500 more than this.
Business class, the middle price level, is also the middle compartment, with more space, better seats, food and service. The airlines involved in the business-class dust-up are Trans World Airlines, which has been offering transcontinental business class for 10 years; American Airlines, which completed its jump into the transcontinental domestic business class market last week; Delta, which began its transcontinental domestic business class at the end of last year, and United, which began its buildup early in January. 
 Many causes lie behind the burst of activity in the middle compartment. According to Richard D'Ambrosio, senior editor of Business Travel News, who has been watching the New York-Los Angeles route for some years, traffic there held up well through the economic difficulties of 1991. It was therefore probably a safe place for the route leader, American, which carries 40 percent of the traffic between Kennedy International Airport in New York and Los Angeles, to seek more revenue by adding a business class. The old domestic configuration in American's DC-10's had a 34-seat first-class section and a 256-seat coach class. The new arrangement provides 28 first-class seats, 52 in business class and 157 in coach. The total seats are 53 fewer because of the greater space allotted to business class seats, but some rough arithmetic shows that the airline would win revenue. On the basis of current fares, using a deeply discounted coach seat price, a full plane would yield a gross of $9,000 more with the business class configuration. This calculation leaves such things as added flight attendants, nicer food and china, which would cut into this gross; a restriction on first-class upgrades would enhance it.
Another driving force was Delta's acquisition of Pan American's European routes last fall, as well as its A-310's, which were already configured for three-class service to Europe. Delta, like other airlines serving Europe with connections from the West Coast, reasoned that it would not be able to sell a business-class ticket to Europe if passengers had to fly coach from the West Coast to the East Coast. So it began offering transcontinental business class.
From a sales standpoint, in a tough economic climate when many companies are forbidding executives to fly first class, the addition of domestic business class, which may still be permissible, looks like an opportunity to earn a little more from corporations that must send executives around in good times or bad.
Mr. D'Ambrosio also articulated a motive that most airline officials cloak in woolly sales language. "There is an element of protecting the first-class passenger," he said. "There are so few people willing to pay for first class these days. Then they look up when the frequent-flier people come barging in, and they seem to ask, 'Where do they get off coming into first class in their sneakers?' "
The new three-class American structure makes this clear: Coach passengers will not be able to get into first class by using frequent flier miles to upgrade, although business-class passengers will be able to upgrade to first by using 10,000 or 20,000 frequent-flier miles. Coach passengers will be able to upgrade to business class under the rules that apply on other routes for upgrading to first. Delta also does not allow coach passengers to upgrade to first on flights where it offers three-class service. Neil Monroe, the line's spokesman, said of first class, "It's a premium product, and we want to protect the value of the product." He said Delta's business class, because it was set up for international flights, used space comparable to other lines' domestic first class.
 
The Situation on Fares
 With all this going on, what is happening to the fares between New York and Los Angeles? Now, and at least for the next few days, it is easy to set the low point on the chart: American, Continental, Delta, Northwest, T.W.A., United and USAir are offering highly restricted nonrefundable round-trip transcontinental coach seats for $338. These fares will expire unevenly, with each airline watching the others. Delta, for example, says that for some of these Winter Saver tickets, the last day to buy at this price will be Feb. 14, with the last day to travel March 31, but for others, there are later dates.
With the prices American introduced last week when it put the finishing touches on its domestic business class, a one-way first-class ticket between Kennedy and Los Angeles costs $1,325; a business-class ticket costs $998 one way and a full-fare unrestricted coach ticket $752 one way.
T.W.A. says it is offering transcontinental discounts to mark its 10 years of business-class, which it calls Ambassador Class. A one-way first-class ticket between New York and Los Angeles, San Francisco or Seattle; or between Boston and San Francisco, Baltimore and San Francisco, or Dulles Airport (near Washington) and Los Angeles, is $700; a business-class ticket between any of these cities is $550 one way, and a full coach ticket $350 one way. T.W.A. says tickets at these prices will be available only to May 20.
Delta is offering three flights a day between Kennedy and Los Angeles with three classes. The one-way first-class fare is $1,123; the nominal fare for business class one way is $902, and a full coach ticket is $752 one way. But Mr. Monroe, the line's spokesman, said the business-class fare is a "selling" fare only and that any member of Delta's frequent flier program, even a brand-new one, could buy a full coach ticket at $752 and get a business-class ticket for $45 more, or a total of $797. Access to other lines' better seats is also linked to membership in frequent flier programs, but this is not a significant restriction. On two flights a day from Newark to Los Angeles where business class is not available, Delta is offering first-class tickets for $797.
United's business-class service, called Connoisseur Class, is available on the Newark-to-San Francisco route, although not New York to Los Angeles. The prices on the San Francisco route are, in first class, $1,155 one way; in business class, $925 one way, and full coach $771. United, according to its spokeswoman, Lynn Martenstein, is hoping to expand its domestic business class beyond the 149 domestic flights on which it is now offered.
 
Big Item: Comfort
 What does a traveler get in business class for paying as much as $400 above the average? All airlines praise their food, better wine and fuller service, but in reality, comfort is the big item. You usually get a seat with a 38- or 40-inch pitch, which is the distance between your armrest and the same spot on the armrest ahead of you. In coach this space is 30 or 31 inches. The seats are also wider and there are fewer in a row. On American, for example, the rows in business class are grouped 2-3-2, compared with 2-5-2 in coach and 2-2-2 in first class.
The $396 average fare paid for a one-way coast-to-coast coach ticket in the fourth quarter of 1991 was reported by Jeanie Thompson-Smith, president of Topaz Enterprises in Portland, Ore., which is hired by corporations to audit travel agencies' performance for their corporate clients.
But the increase in domestic business-class seats may produce an unwelcome impact on people who must travel for their companies. Ms. Thompson-Smith was asked if she thought the expansion would mean what the airlines hope, that more executives will be permitted to use a better service than coach class.
"No, I think it will mean that companies that permitted first class may now restrict their employees to business class," Ms. Thompson-Smith said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (85%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (74%); NEW YORK (75%); LOS ANGELES (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (75%); LOS ANGELES (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (50%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FARES; ADVERTISING; NYTRAVEL AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORTS (78%); AIR FARES (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); 

PERSON: WADE, BETSY RICHARD D'AMBROSIO (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



301 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: Perspectives: Manhattan Rentals;
Building for the 'Young Professional' Class

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
EVERYONE to his own niche. The Brodsky Organization has found its niche on the West Side of Manhattan, where it has been building new residential buildings, often with office and retail space, for 10 years.
Beyond that, the Brodsky niche is in the apartment itself, a product priced to meet the lower end of the luxury housing market. The locations are not suitable for superluxury housing, where prices are not only higher per square foot but apartments are also larger, with special features and fixtures, and service staffs are larger. The price difference for a 1,000-square-foot apartment might be $700 a month or more. 
 Nathan Brodsky, the 74-year-old founder of the business, has no taste for the land prices that oblige builder-buyers to seek superluxury rents. "We never paid more than $55 a square foot," he said, which means $55 for every square foot of buildable space. At that figure $55,000 in cost is embedded in the purchase or rental price of the 1,000-square-foot two-bedroom apartment.
Some developers paid $100 or more per buildable square foot in the 80's. "We are conscientious about keeping our product as low-priced as possible," Mr. Brodsky said.
The Brodsky approach gives a special interest to the inventory of housing that he and his 47-year-old son, Daniel, have created in Manhattan over the last 10 years. It is eminently suitable for the young-professionals market, people with incomes in the $40,000-to-$90,000 range, often in households with two wage earners. The tenants are often new arrivals to New York City.
Now the question is when the Brodskys will be able to build for this market again.
The business was started by Mr. Brodsky in Greenwich Village after World War II. He bought and improved small residential buildings in the Village and Chelsea. He still owns about 1,500 apartments. Later, the turned to larger buildings. Failing residential hotels were purchased to be rehabilitated as rental apartments.
Currently the Brodsky Organization is finishing the rental program at the Concerto, a 248-unit 35-story project at 200 West 60th Street, just west of Ninth Avenue. The rental experience there is demonstrating the continuing market for this level of new rental housing in Manhattan.
But the Brodskys want to start on an encore to the Concerto, a 1,000-unit development called Manhattan West, which won approval from the Board of Estimate, now defunct, two years ago after a public review process. The four-acre site lies west of West End Avenue between 61st and 64th Streets. The Trump Organization is trying to win city approval for an even larger development on land to the west.
Manhattan West would be a $180 million development, the largest the Brodskys have undertaken. The problem is that rent projections for the mid-90's are such that the project is no longer economically feasible, even with tax-exempt bond financing and the Section 421a tax abatements to which it would be entitled as-of-right as a publicly financed development. A longer period of abated taxes would be needed.
Manhattan West is planned as "80-20" housing, with 80 percent of the apartments rented at market prices and 20 percent at prices affordable to households with incomes up to about $20,000 -- 50 percent of the median income for a family of four in the metropolitan area.
THE project would also provide at developer expense a new 1.25-acre park from 63d to 64th Streets, extending from West End Avenue to a new street 240 feet to the west called East Tower Drive.
The housing would line West End Avenue and the south side of a newly extended 63d Street, ranging in height from 17 to 38 stores. There would be garage parking for 350 cars, a public health club of 12,500 square feet, 5,000 square feet of community facilities and 38,000 square feet of stores.
In Manhattan, nearly all new multifamily construction has gotten the 421a benefit. However, builders of conventionally financed luxury housing must pay for it "up front" by subsidizing the construction of new low-income units, either on their sites or elsewhere. The cost to them has been about $18,000 an apartment. This is less than the savings from abatements and therefore makes more money available for financing.
But in the current market, projected rent increases no longer comfortably cover operating-cost increases that include a 10-year phase-in of property taxes. Under Section 421a in Manhattan, the tax phase-in is paid for by a rent increase of 2.2 percent a year.
The developers of 80-20 projects get the 421a benefit without having to pay for it. But still, if apartment rents are not rising fast enough, revenues won't cover the phased-in taxes for a development with the normal 75 percent loan-to-value ratio of financing.
"It worked fine when you had the inflation rates of the early 80's," Mr. Brodsy said. "It doesn't work in a noninflationary environment."
One way to restore the abatement's effectiveness in stimulating construction is to extend its phase-in period to 20 years from the present 10 years. Then rents would not have to rise so rapidly to meet the tax bill.
There is little evidence so far that the administration of Mayor David N. Dinkins is prepared to sweeten the 421a program in Manhattan, perhaps because there is no current sense of housing shortage. "The project is six years old and it's still not in construction," Daniel Brodsky said ruefully.
At the Concerto, he said, tenants have been found for 91 percent of the apartments -- 225 of 246 -- since leasing began last May. A sample consisting of the most recent 103 leases showed that 44 percent of the tenants are new arrivals from outside the metropolitan area.
MOST of the renting households have incomes of $80,000 to $150,000. But individual incomes are mainly $50,000 to $60,000 a year. There are 59 single-person households and more than twice that many two-person -- usually two-income -- households.
To get to the current occupancy level in 10 months the Brodsky Organization has had to make some rent concessions, usually one or two months' free rent for less desirable units. Rents have averaged about $28.50 a square foot per year -- about $1,600 a month for a typical 675-square-foot one-bedroom on a middle floor, Daniel Brodsky said.
Since the Concerto was financed on the expectation that it would rent out at an average of about $30 a square foot per year, it has fallen short of expectations. On the other hand, interest rates declined during construction to about 6 to 7 percent compared with a rate over 12 percent projected. Thus the construction cost was less than expected.
The Concerto is a $75 million project that included 130 units of hospital staff housing in an attacheed structure on Ninth Avenue for Roosevelt-St. Luke's Medical Center and a 250-car garage. Before it the Brodskys built the 500-unit 51-story rental called South Park Tower, at 120 West 60th Street, an $80 million project with about 100,000 square feet of office space on the first 10 floors.
They also built two other West Side condominiums, the 160-unit Beaumont at 30 West 61st Street with 45,000 square feet of office space, and the 175-unit 45 West 67th Street, with 60,000 square feet of office space.
Major projects all, but rooted in a cautious approach that relies on choosing underutilized properties and sites that may be underestimated. It also relies on using space optimally. Lobbies are of modest scale even when they are elegant, as at the Concerto. "I don't like big lobbies," Daniel Brodsky said. "Or gaudy Miami Beach lobbies."
UNTIL the 80's, the Brodskys shied away from new construction. They had been concentrating on buying old and ailing residential hotels in promising locations and upgrading them as rental housing. These projects included the Alamac at 160 West 71st Street; the Beaux Arts, twin buildings across the street from each other between First and Second Avenues at 310 and 307 East 44th Street, and the Croydon at 12 East 86th Street.
Then came an opportunity to do a gut rehabilitation of the 70-room Walton Hotel at 104 West 70th Street. The idea was to sell the apartments as condominiums.
"Brewster Ives came around and said, 'You'll never sell those apartments, it's a wreck,' " Daniel Brodsky said. The late Mr. Ives, the senior figure at Douglas Elliman-Gibbons & Ives, the management and sales firm, was too pessimistic. The Walton sold out in four months.
In the early 80's, Mr. Brodsky said, banks had an attitude of confidence in lending to residential projects that were in the hands of experienced builders. "What has changed is that banks no longer want to lend to real estate," he said. "Bond financing and government programs to preserve and create housing are going to become more important."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nathan Brodsky and son, Daniel, at Concerto on West 60th Street, rear. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)
 
Map of Manhattan West (proposed)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: BRODSKY ORGANIZATION TRUMP ORGANIZATION (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRODSKY ORGANIZATION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; WEST SIDE (NYC) UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; APARTMENT HOUSES; RENTING AND LEASING COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (68%); APPROVALS (63%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S NATHAN BRODSKY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



302 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: Focus: The Northeast;
Debt and Mild Winters Afflict Ski Areas

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

DATELINE: WEST WINDSOR, VT.

 BODY:
THE empty chair lifts were swaying silently against a wintry sky -- skeletal reminders of headier days vibrant with the sounds of skiers riding up the mountain. Along the edges the neat rows of vacant condominiums stood like wooden sentries over the abandoned slopes.
Like several others, the 750-acre Mount Ascutney ski resort here, closed since last April, was brought down by excessive debts from speculative slopeside condominium development coupled with unseasonably warm winters. The shutdown has been particularly hard on the buyers of individual units, many of whom cannot even use their units pending a resolution with creditors. 
 There are now 69 ski areas in New England, against 107 just 20 years ago. About 70 percent of the loss has been in the last decade, reports Phillip Camp, executive director of the New England Ski Areas Council.
Some larger areas have consolidated with their weaker, smaller neighbors while others have simply gone out of business. Still others that floundered a few years ago are now back in business.
Tenney Mountain, for example, in Plymouth, N.H., has already come out of bankruptcy and is operating once again -- albeit on more limited basis -- under new ownership and a new structure that separated its financially troubled condominium projects from its ski operation.
Haystack in West Dover, Vt., which filed under Chapter 11 last August, is leasing its lifts and slopes to a more prosperous neighbor, in this case, Mount Snow. Its 107 condominiums, now mostly sold out, are operating independently.
Waterville Valley Ski Resort in Waterville Valley, N.H., headed off financial freefall after condominium sales slowed precipitately by raising the $2 million due its lenders through the sale of convertible preferred stock, said Tom Corcoran, Waterville's president.
The problem is not confined to the Northeast. Some Colorado ski resorts similarly attracted by the lure of condominium profits took an equally bumpy downhill run in the late 80's and are only now beginning to get back on their feet, said John Lay, president of Colorado Ski Country USA, a regional association of ski area operators in Colorado.
"There's been a shakeout," he said, adding that most are returning to life through some sort of restructuring that has separated the condominiums from the ski slopes.
BUT clearly, the region most severely affected has been New England, say officials at the United Ski Industries Association, the national trade group. Not only did the real estate market nosedive, but the mild weather also required operators to continually replenish the slopes with artificial snow just as cash flow was being squeezed by the debt service on unsold or partially completed condominium units.
Ski Magazine has estimated that it costs on average about $2,700 to cover one acre with a foot of snow, or about $800,000 to cover a typical 300 acres of ski trails.
A further blow was a decline in the number of people going skiing over the last few years after a three-decade blizzard of snowbirds. This, of course, meant that far fewer condominium units sold than originally projected.
To fully comprehend how ski area operators were lured into speculative real estate development it is necessary to understand what was happening to the ski industry when it all started, said Richard Owen, director of marketing for the United Ski Industries Association.
In the early 80's, slope owners needed vast infusions of capital to upgrade obsolete equipment and facilities and subsidize the rising costs of insurance, water supplies and energy.
Rather than raise lift ticket prices, they decided to develop their excess acreage to create a "bed base" -- facilities that would guarantee regular customers.
But instead of selling the land for someone else to develop, many were lured by a vision of dazzling profits and decided to do it themselves. In the beginning, they seemed to be walking a yellow-brick road. Buyers were attracted by the promise of cost-free ownership from rental income when they weren't using the unit. "It made it all look pretty painless," said Mr. Owen.
But thousands of units sprouted so fast that supply soon exceeded demand. In addition, resorts like Mount Ascutney, which had targeted the luxury rather than the economy market, found that only a limited number of customers had $200,000 to spend on a second or third home.
Further, said Mr. Lay, people became more interested in staying four or five days, rather than 14 days, as in the past.
The 1986 Tax Reform Act, which limited interest deductions to only one vacation home, and the stock market crash of October 1987 dealt the final blows, catching operators in a triple bind of unsold inventory, slipping values and heavy debt service resulting from construction costs.
Mount Ascutney filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code in April 1990, showing debts of $55 million, said John Canney, the court-appointed trustee. Of 172 units, 25 are still unsold.
It nevertheless remained open until last April, when the filing was converted to Chapter 7. Mr. Canney said that by then the lenders were no longer willing to pump money into a losing operation and the principals could not even meet a rescheduled level of payments.
Ever since, a complicated land-lease deal has shackled 100 of the 147 condominium buyers to a situation that precludes their using their units pending a resolution with creditors.
But real estate hasn't proved a disaster for all. Resorts well located in areas offering year-round recreation have bounced back or continue to do well, said Mr. Lay. Another ticket to success was maintaining healthy fiscal balance between the needs of the slopes and the real estate affiliate.
In the Northeast, Loon Mountain Ski Resort in Lincoln, N.H., stayed strong by selling land for cash rather than become involved in any development deal. Sunday River Ski Resort in Bethel, Me., which has 688 condominium units, prospered by concentrating on budget-priced units. It also adopted a policy of building units only after they had been pre-sold.
EVEN resorts that have fallen by the wayside have opened up opportunities for others. Last June, Tenney Mountain Skiing of New Hampshire, a consortium of three partners, picked up 380 mountain acres and the updated skiing facilities at Tenney for only $500,000 from Fidelity Bank of Philadelphia, a major lender caught in the former Tenney bankruptcy.
Seth Lichtman, Tenney's current director of customer services, said the 40 unsold condominiums had been separately acquired by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation following the collapse of another of Tenney's lenders, Maine Savings Bank, last February. Further, the remaining 80 units, all sold, had already become an independent entity.
Values at Tenney have tumbled nevertheless, said Mr. Lichtman. A one-bedoom unit orignally selling for $80,000 was recently fetching only $45,000. Two-bedrooms, intended to generate rental income of $650 a month, are lucky to find a renter for $450, he said.
All of which has left owners feeling helpless and cheated. "We were promised so much," said Diana Fay of Boston, who with her husband, Richard, bought a two-bedroom town house unit at Tenney for $113,000 in 1986. They have two teen-age children.
"We were supposed to get a health center, but nothing went up except a sign," she said. "We were told we would get a private beach at a lake nearby. That never happened either. All those grand plans for a wonderful four-season resort never materialized. Even Mother Nature has not cooperated by washing away the snow."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Empty chair lifts rise over condos at Mount Ascutney in Vermont. (Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5043 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SKI INDUSTRIES INC (58%); JOHN LAY ELECTRONICS AG (52%); NEW ENGLAND SKI AREAS COUNCIL (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND SKI AREAS COUNCIL (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTHEASTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SKIING; FINANCES; CREDIT; CONDOMINIUMS; HOUSING SKIING FACILITIES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); SKIING (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); RESORTS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); SALES FIGURES (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (70%); WEATHER (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (64%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (50%); PREFERRED STOCK (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE RICHARD OWEN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



303 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 8; Page 2; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: FOCUS;
Debt and Mild Winters Afflict Ski Areas

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

DATELINE: WEST WINDSOR, VT.

 BODY:
The empty chair lifts were swaying silently against a wintry sky -- skeletal reminders of headier days vibrant with the sounds of skiers riding up the mountain. Along the edges the neat rows of vacant condominiums stood like wooden sentries over the abandoned slopes.
Like several others, the 750-acre Mount Ascutney ski resort here, closed since last April, was brought down by excessive debts from speculative slopeside condominium development coupled with unseasonably warm winters. The shutdown has been particularly hard on the buyers of individual units, many of whom cannot even use their units pending a resolution with creditors. 
 There are now 69 ski areas in New England, against 107 just 20 years ago. About 70 percent of the loss has been in the last decade, reports Phillip Camp, executive director of the The New England Ski Areas Council. Some larger areas have consolidated with their weaker, smaller neighbors while others have simply gone out of business. Still others that floundered a few years ago are now back in business.
Tenney Mountain, for example, in Plymouth, N.H., has already come out of bankruptcy and is operating once again -- albeit on more limited basis -- under new ownership and a new structure that separated its financially troubled condominium projects from its ski operation.
Haystack in West Dover, Vt., which filed under Chapter 11 last August, is leasing its lifts and slopes to a more prosperous neighbor, in this case, Mount Snow. Its 107 condominiums, now mostly sold out, are operating independently.
Waterville Valley Ski Resort in Waterville Valley, N.H., headed off financial freefall after condominium sales slowed precipitately by raising the $2 million due its lenders through the sale of convertible preferred stock, said Tom Corcoran, Waterville's president.
The problem is not confined to the Northeast. Some Colorado ski resorts similarly attracted by the lure of condominium profits took an equally bumpy downhill run in the late 80's and are only now beginning to get back on their feet, said John Lay, president of Colorado Ski Country USA, a regional association of ski area operators in Colorado.
"There's been a shakeout," he said, adding that most are returning to life through some sort of restructuring that has separated the condominiums from the ski slopes.
But clearly, the region most severely affected has been New England, say officials at the United Ski Industries Association, the national trade group. Not only did the real estate market nosedive, but the mild weather also required operators to continually replenish the slopes with artificial snow just as cash flow was being squeezed by the debt service on unsold or partially completed condominium units.
Ski Magazine has estimated that it costs on average about $2,700 to cover one acre with a foot of snow, or about $800,000 to cover a typical 300 acres of ski trails.
A further blow was a decline in the number of people going skiing over the last few years after a three-decade blizzard of snowbirds. This, of course, meant that far fewer condominium units sold than originally projected.
To fully comprehend how ski area operators were lured into speculative real estate development it is necessary to understand what was happening to the ski industry when it all started, said Richard Owen, director of marketing for the United Ski Industries Association.
In the early 80's, slope owners needed vast infusions of capital to upgrade obsolete equipment and facilities and subsidize the rising costs of insurance, water supplies and energy.
Rather than raise lift ticket prices, they decided to develop their excess acreage to create a "bed base" -- facilities that would guarantee regular customers.
But instead of selling the land for someone else to develop, many were lured by a vision of dazzling profits and decided to do it themselves. In the beginning, they seemed to be walking a yellow-brick road. Buyers were attracted by the promise of cost-free ownership from rental income when they weren't using the unit. "It made it all look pretty painless," said Mr. Owen.
But thousands of units sprouted so fast that supply soon exceeded demand. In addition, resorts like Mount Ascutney, which had targeted the luxury rather than the economy market, found that only a limited number of customers had $200,000 to spend on a second or third home.
Further, said Mr. Lay, people became more interested in staying four or five days, rather than 14 days, as in the past.
The 1986 Tax Reform Act, which limited interest deductions to only one vacation home, and the stock market crash of October 1987 dealt the final blows, catching operators in a triple bind of unsold inventory, slipping values and heavy debt service resulting from construction costs.
Mount Ascutney filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code in April 1990, showing debts of $55 million, said John Canney, the court-appointed trustee. Of 172 units, 25 are still unsold.
It nevertheless remained open until last April, when the filing was converted to Chapter 7. Mr. Canney said that by then the lenders were no longer willing to pump money into a losing operation and the principals could not even meet a rescheduled level of payments.
Ever since, a complicated land-lease deal has shackled 100 of the 147 condominium buyers to a situation that precludes their using their units pending a resolution with creditors.
But real estate hasn't proved a disaster for all. Resorts well located in areas offering year-round recreation have bounced back or continue to do well, said Mr. Lay. Another ticket to success was maintaining healthy fiscal balance between the needs of the slopes and the real estate affiliate.
In the Northeast, Loon Mountain Ski Resort in Lincoln, N.H., stayed strong by selling land for cash rather than become involved in any development deal. Sunday River Ski Resort in Bethel, Me., which has 688 condominium units, prospered by concentrating on budget-priced units. It also adopted a policy of building units only after they had been pre-sold.
Even resorts that have fallen by the wayside have opened up opportunities for others. Last June, Tenney Mountain Skiing of New Hampshire, a consortium of three partners, picked up 380 mountain acres and the updated skiing facilities at Tenney for only $500,000 from Fidelity Bank of Philadelphia, a major lender caught in the former Tenney bankruptcy.
Seth Lichtman, Tenney's current director of customer services, said the 40 unsold condominiums had been separately acquired by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation following the collapse of another of Tenney's lenders, Maine Savings Bank, last February. Further, the remaining 80 units, all sold, had already become an independent entity.
Values at Tenney have tumbled nevertheless, said Mr. Lichtman. A one-bedoom unit orignally selling for $80,000 was recently fetching only $45,000. Two-bedrooms, intended to generate rental income of $650 a month, are lucky to find a renter for $450, he said.
All of which has left owners feeling helpless and cheated. "We were promised so much," said Diana Fay of Boston, who with her husband, Richard, bought a two-bedroom town house unit at Tenney for $113,000 in 1986. They have two teen-age children.
"We were supposed to get a health center, but nothing went up except a sign," she said. "We were told we would get a private beach at a lake nearby. That never happened either. All those grand plans for a wonderful four-season resort never materialized. Even Mother Nature has not cooperated by washing away the snow."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Empty chair lifts hang above vacant condominiums at closed Mount Ascutney ski area in Vermont; at Tenney Mountain near Plymouth, N.H., skiers get lift tickets. Tenney Mountain has survived bankruptcy. (Photopgraphs by Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5043 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SKI INDUSTRIES INC (58%); JOHN LAY ELECTRONICS AG (52%); NEW ENGLAND SKI AREAS COUNCIL (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND SKI AREAS COUNCIL (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WEST WINDSOR (VT) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SKIING; CONDOMINIUMS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS REAL ESTATE (92%); SKIING FACILITIES (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (91%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); SKIING (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); RESORTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); SALES FIGURES (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); TRENDS (73%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (70%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (69%); WEATHER (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (50%); PREFERRED STOCK (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE RICHARD OWEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



304 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 21; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: Small Pins Offer Bowlers a Big Challenge

BYLINE: By JACK CAVANAUGH

 BODY:
SCORES of children screamed and squealed as bowling balls crashed into pins on a recent Sunday afternoon at Barnum Recreation Lanes in Stratford. Children outnumber grown-ups by a 3-to-1 margin on weekend afternoons at the bowling center on Barnum Avenue, and that would seem to bode well for the future of the game it features, duckpins.
But the general manager of the Barnum Lanes, Clarence Lavers, conceded that youngsters who come for family outings or birthday parties will not necessarily come back as they grow up. 
 "Once a lot of the kids get old enough to handle the bigger ball, they switch over to tenpins," Mr. Laver said, referring to the form of the game that most people know simply as bowling. "They watch professionals bowling tenpins on television, and they say, 'Hey, I can make $40,000 a year doing that when I grow up.' "
 
'A Much Better Game'
 For three decades now, the far more popular game of tenpins has been the bane of duckpin bowling, which uses much smaller balls and pins.
Duckpins have "dropped in popularity, particularly in Fairfield County," said Mr. Lavers. "And that's a shame, because it's a much better game -- far more challenging than tenpins. I'd like to think that duckpins is going to make a big comeback, but that will only happen if we get more television exposure. And I don't see that happening."
In Connecticut 21 bowling establishments still offer duckpins. But most of the alleys are upstate. The game has vanished in lower Fairfield County, where duckpins thrived from the 1930's through the 50's. Eight tenpin alleys remain in Greenwich and Bridgeport, but even that number is down considerably from the 70's and early 80's.
"We haven't had duckpins around here for about 30 years," said the secretary of the Lower Fairfield County Bowlers Association, Nick Romaniello. "But maybe a duckpin house could succeed." The number of duckpin bowlers in the state appears to be growing, and the number of establishments is holding steady. Some of them, like the Barnum Lanes and Sena's Center in Waterbury, have been in operation for more than a half century.
"I started out as a pin boy when my father opened the alleys in 1938," said Norman Sena, the owner of Sena's Center, which has 20 duckpin lanes. "Business is down a little this year, because of the recession. But overall duckpins is holding its own in the Waterbury area."
The game is strongest in the Hartford area and the northeastern part of the state, with lanes in Hartford, Manchester, Windsor Locks, Newington, Bristol, Mansfield, Rockville, Winsted and Waterford. Other communities with duckpins are Cheshire, Danbury, Hamden and West Haven.
Most duckpin bowlers say they are drawn to the game because they find it far more challenging than big pins.
"There's no comparison," said Mr. Lavers, who has been the nation's top-ranked bowler four times since 1982 and was named the best bowler on the duckpin professional circuit three times. "A top duckpin bowler could give a leading big-pin bowler a good go in tenpins, but a big-pin guy couldn't compete with a good duckpin bowler."
 
Hurt by Property Values
 Why did did duckpins lose ground in Connecticut, particularly Fairfield County?
"First of all, tenpin operators began putting up these beautiful bowling establishments that were family oriented," said Mr. Lavers. "At the same time, a lot of the duckpin alleys had been allowed to deteriorate. Then property values began to soar, especially in Fairfield County, and many duckpin owners sold out to developers. Network television of the pro tour also gave the game tremendous exposure. And people liked the higher scores. Meanwhile, duckpin operators did nothing to market or promote our game."
A duckpin ball is only about 5 inches in diameter, and its maximum weight is 3 pounds, 12 ounces, compared with a tenpin ball, which is approximately 9 inches in diameter and weighs up to 16 pounds. "It's almost impossible for a little kid to bowl a tenpin ball with three or four fingers in the holes of the ball," said Mr. Lavers, noting that duckpin balls have no holes.
Besides the size of the equipment, the major difference between the two games is that a duckpin bowler rolls 3 balls in each of the 10 frames, compared with the 2 balls in tenpins.
"Bigpins is a game of strikes, while duckpins is a game of spares," Mr. Lavers said.
In order to survive, Barnum Lanes and other old bowling establishments in the state have had to refurbish their interiors and expunge their unsavory image as dimly-lighted, smoke-filled places.
Prices for duckpins range from $1.75 to $2.50 a game. Some lanes are rented by the hour, usually for $10 to $12. Prices are generally lower for the elderly and children younger than 12. Rates are often cheaper during the daytime on weekdays.
"Leagues are the backbone of the bowling business, but nowadays we're also getting a lot more seniors on weekdays," said Jim Gesuelle, who with his wife, Nancy, has owned Farmington Avenue Duckpin in Hartford, near the West Hartford border, since 1989. The 16-lane establishment, which Mr. Gesuelle said was 52 years old, was previously known as the Mark Twain Lanes.
"The place was really rundown," he said, "and after we bought it, we shut it down for three months to completely refurbish the place."
 
Played in 12 States
 In the heyday of duckpin bowling in the state, many large companies had their own bowling alleys. Duckpin lanes were also often found in the basements of fraternal and sports clubs, generally with billiard tables nearby. Such alleys, though, are now as much a part of the past as pin boys, who were replaced by automatic pinsetters in the 1950's.
Still, Connecticut remains a stronghold, relatively speaking, of duckpin bowling. Only 12 states still have duckpin lanes, and four of them -- Pennsylvania, Florida, Indiana and Wisconsin -- have only one duckpin establishment each.
Duckpins remain most popular in Maryland, its birthplace. By most accountsthe game was invented in Baltimore in 1903 by John McGraw and Wilbert Robinson, who were then playing baseball for the Orioles and owned the Diamond Alleys there.
Five duckpin bowlers from Connecticut are currently ranked in the top 20 by the National Duckpin Bowling Congress. Besides Mr. Laver, who is ranked second, they are Mike Trepanier of North Haven, Brian Kulas of Windsor Locks, George Kaeser of Newington and Bruce Sylvester of Hamden, whose wife, Judy, is also an outstanding bowler.
Mr. Laver and the Sylvesters play twice weekly in a highly competitive league at Barnum Lanes. Others in the league include Frank Iaizzi of Stamford, who once held the world record for an eight-game set, and Tom Lynch of West Haven, who was ranked fourth in the nation in 1982. Mr. Trepanier, Mr. Kulas and Mr. Kaeser bowl regularly in another strong league at T-Bowl Lanes In Newington, the largest duckpin complex in New England, with 48 lanes.
All of them compete on the eight-event professional duckpin tour, which runs from March through November. "Nobody gets rich on the pro tour," said Mr. Lavers. "At the most, the leading bowler on the tour will make about $10,000 a year." Top bowlers on the tenpin tour earn as much as $400,000 a year.
More than 150 bowlers participate in the children's leagues at T-Bowl Lanes. One of the best is 12-year-old Amy Bisson, whose mother, Kim, is the establishment's general manager for operations and wife of one of the owners. Amy, whose average score is 128, holds four world records in her age group.
At the T-Bowl Lanes on Dec. 3, 1984, Ben McDonald of New Britain set a single-game world record when he bowled 267, a mark that has since been broken. Nick Tronsky of Kensington, who is regarded by many bowling experts as the greatest duckpin bowler of all time, bowled at T-Bowl for many years.
But the game has changed since Mr. Tronsky was first voted Duckpin Bowler of the Year in 1931, an honor he also achieved 30 years later. Wooden pins have given way to much livelier plastic ones, gutters are shallower, and sideboards are now made of rubber rather than fiber. These changes have combined to produce higher scores.
"In 1969 I averaged 134, which was the second-best average in the country," Mr. Lavers said. "Today I average 151, which is still the second best in the country. But I'm not any better than I was in '69."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Duckpin bowlers, top, at Barnum Recreation Lanes in Stratford. Above, the machinery that resets the pins. Lovers of the game can choose from 21 establishments in the state; Judy Sylvester bowling at Barnum Lanes. (Photographs by David LaBianca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOWLING BOWLING (91%); BOWLING CENTERS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

PERSON: CAVANAUGH, JACK CLARENCE LAVERS (90%); BARNUM LANES (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



305 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2192 words

HEADLINE: Pristine Open Space: A Clash of Interests

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

DATELINE: RINGWOOD

 BODY:
A PLAN by the United States Forest Service plan to limit development on more than a million acres of rolling landscape in northern New Jersey and southern New York State has drawn praise from conservationists and criticism from developers and farmers who own much of the land.
The draft plan, which was released last November and will be the subject of a public hearing on Tuesday, identifies more than 50 conservation strategies. These include the acquisition of prime parcels of land, the purchase of development rights in others, the issuance of credits to landowners in lieu of development rights and the establishment of a two-state regional planning authority to oversee future development in the area. 
 Environmental groups and many residents say the plan embodies the type of action that must be taken to protect the forest, watershed and wildlife refuge from unchecked development and suburban sprawl.
Developers, however, say the Forest Service's recommendation for a regional planning authority is excessive and unnecessary because existing laws adequately control future development in the area. Landowners and farmers add that constraints on development are an illegal taking of their property without just compensation, in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
The far-reaching plan touches on several critical issues facing New Jersey and the region. Those issues include increased concern over water quality, the preservation of the last remaining stretches of pristine open spaces and efforts by local officials to stem the urban flight that has left some large cities mere shadows of their former selves.
"This is the last refuge of open space in the tristate area," said Robert Pirani, director of environmental projects for the Regional Plan Association, a public policy organization based in Manhattan. "It's the backyard of millions of people."
Mr. Pirani said unchecked development in the 1.1-million-acre area, commonly referred to as the Highlands, could have a negative impact on residents, wildlife and the environment itself. "The Highlands provides the region with fresh drinking water, and it's one of the last intact ecosystems that can support large populations of wildlife," he said. "The fact that it has remained open and forested until now has provided shape and form to the entire region."
Mr. Pirani said his organization supported the two main concepts contained in the Forest Service's draft report: the acquisition of several of the area's larger pieces of land -- the "jewels of the Highlands" -- and the creation of a regional planning authority to control development in the privately owned lands that remain.
Without such action, Mr. Pirani said, development will fragment the otherwise continuous stretch of Appalachian forest that runs from Pennsylvania through much of northern New Jersey and into southern New York State. "We don't want suburbia to stretch from the Hudson River to the Delaware River," he said.
The Forest Service draft report, or preliminary plan, was the result of a yearlong study authorized by Congress in January of 1990. The bill provided the Forest Service with $250,000 to study the area and assess its resources, land ownership patterns and the impact that future development would have on the integrity of the ecosystem. In addition, the Forest Service was instructed to make recommendations for conservation strategies after completing the study and considering public opinion.
"We've just completed a round of public sessions which were attended by over 600 people," said Leslie A. DiCola, a member of the Forest Service's study team. "In addition to that, we've received over 500 written responses to our draft report," she said, referring to the 75-page document the study team released last November.
A key recommendation of the report called for the acquisition of some of the most ecologically sensitive tracts in the area and the purchase of development rights in some others. One tract that should be purchased, the report says, is the 17,500-acre Sterling Forest.
Though the forest is in New York State, it is an integral part of the 60,000-acre Monksville-Wanaque Reservoir Watershed Area, which provides drinking water to nearly 25 percent of New Jersey's population.
The forest's owner, the Sterling Forest Corporation, has recently submitted development plans to officials in New York State. The plans call for more than 14,000 homes, 8 million square feet of commercial space, employment for 20,000 people and an ultimate population of about 35,000 residents. About 75 percent of the forest would remain as permanent open space.
Robert Thomson, chairman of the corporation, said that any runoff from the development into reservoirs in the area would meet New York and New Jersey water quality standards.
Should the Forest Service acquisition plan be put into effect, however, a major stumbling block would be coming up with the money to make the purchase. Estimates of the value of the Sterling Forest tract run as high as $150 million.
 
'Money Is a Big Question'
 Ms. DiCola said "we don't know" where would the money come from. "The money is a big question," she said.
The Forest Service report also calls for the purchase of development rights in the 55,000-acre Pequannock Watershed in Sussex and Passaic Counties. About 35,000 acres of the watershed is owned by the City of Newark and provides a major portion of that city's drinking water supply.
"The foremost goal of the study team is the protection of watershed lands and water supply," Ms. DiCola said.
The report also recommends the creation of a New York-New Jersey regional planning authority to monitor future development in the area. In addition, it urges the examination of a planning concept known as "transfer of development rights" to protect landowners whose property value would otherwise be lowered by restrictions on development.
Transfer of development rights, Ms. DiCola said, involves giving affected landowners "development credits," which could be used or sold to developers. Those credits have value because they allow a developer who is building in another area to exceed that area's existing density requirements and build more houses.
 
Plan Draws Wide Support
 Ms. DiCola said that during the last nine months the Forest Service held nine public meetings in the area, including at the Forest Service study team office in Ringwood. The vast majority of residents and officials who testified at the meetings and who commented on the draft proposal voiced support for the report's recommendations, she said.
Organizations that support the draft plan include the New Jersey Audubon Society, the Sierra Club, the New York-New Jersey Trail Conference, the New Jersey Environmental Lobby and the League of Women Voters. In addition, officials of the State Planning Commission in New Jersey's Office of State Planning say the Forest Service's conclusions and recommendations correspond to similar recommendations the commission made last year in its Skylands Study Commission report.
"These are areas of critical concern," said James G. Gilbert, chairman of the State Planning Commission. "That means that the state should be taking steps to protect them or at least plan their growth."
Not everyone, however, is happy with the Forest Service's recommendations.
 
Others 'Very Distressed'
 "We were very distressed at the way the study team was assisted by the work groups and technical committees that were created," said Joanne M. Harkins, director of land use and planning for the New Jersey Builders Association, a Plainsboro-based trade organization. "Those groups were just not representative of the people who live and work in the area."
The study team and work groups, she said, "concentrated almost exclusively on forest and agriculture and public lands, and they didn't put any of this in the context of the economic activity of the region."
As a result, Ms. Harkins said, the report gives the impression of the Highlands' being "some remote area that can be preserved without considering all sorts of economic activity that's occurring there." That activity, Ms. Harkins said, which includes the presence of sprawling corporate headquarters for several international corporations, accounted for a large percentage of the state's job growth in the 1980's.
"You can't tell from this report, but I certainly don't think that forestry and tourism are the major economic activities in that area," Ms. Harkins said.
 
More Bureaucracy Called Unneeded
 Moreover, she said, the recommendation for a planning authority to monitor development in the area is unnecessary. "Our view is that the area is already protected and regulated through wetlands regulations, wellhead preservation programs and the various buffers that are already required," Ms. Harkins said. "What we do not need now is another layer of bureaucratic controls."
Landowners and farmers in the Highlands also object to much of the Forest Service's plan. "If all this land is worthy of protecting, then they should buy it," said Stephen J. George, president of the 5,400-member New Jersey Farm Bureau based in Trenton. "That's what the Fifth Amendment says."
Instead, Mr. George said, the Forest Service's plan will ultimately result in rezoning much of the land that farmers have owned and worked for years. "So many farmers have their retirements built into their land," he said. "We've put blood, sweat and tears into this land, and we need the equity that we've built up in it. But with the stroke of a pen they can reduce the value from $20,000 an acre to $1,500 an acre."
 
Farmers 'Saved the Land'
 "Because somebody in the Sierra Club wants to hike on this land doesn't mean you can get it for nothing," he said. "The farmers were the first environmentalists. We've saved the land, and now, because we're getting down to where there's less of it, they want to come in and regulate it away."
Mr. George said the "transfer of development rights" system being considered by the Forest Service "just doesn't work." The reason, he said, is that the development credits given to landowners in exchange for taking away their rights to develop their own property are nearly worthless. Referring to a similar system now in place in the Pinelands in southern New Jersey, he said farmers there are having difficulty selling their development credits.
"Why should a landowner say, 'All right, I'll take the credit' when they know very well that that credit may never be used?" Mr. George said.
Some conservationists, however, say the Forest Service plan could be fine-tuned in such a way that would not only protect the farmers and the land itself, but also inspire growth in some of the state's inner cities.
"We're putting out a proposal that links social needs to saving specific parcels of land," said William R. Neil, assistant director of conservation for the New Jersey Audubon Society in Bernardsville. "No one contemplates tough zoning or land use regulations over the entire million acres. It's just the good forested watershed lands that are still in private hands that need to be protected."
 
Audubon Society Proposal
 Mr. Neil said the Audubon Society had developed a plan that would use the system of transferring development rights to "save the best natural lands and, at the same time, build needed housing."
Under the Audubon Society proposal, landowners who own environmentally sensitive property in the Highlands would be given development credits in exchange for restrictions on development of their land. Those credits could be sold to developers who wanted to build in less sensitive areas, called "receiving areas."
The receiving areas, however, would be in cities, like Newark and Paterson, that have established, underused infrastructures and are in need of new housing.
The credits would allow the developer to build more houses than would otherwise be permitted, thereby insuring a greater profit for the developer and a market for the credits.
 
Plan for a 'Credit Bank'
 In addition, Mr. Neil said, the Audubon Society proposes the creation of a "credit bank" that would act as a clearinghouse and purchaser of last resort for the credits, thereby insuring their continued value.
"My proposal for making this work better is to have extra incentives so that the housing that gets built in these more dense zones is targeted to those parts of the population that need it most," Mr. Neil said. The incentives, he said, might include state and Federal moderate- and low-income housing aid.
At least one big-city mayor has embraced that philosophy."I am here to tell you that Newark has available urban land, and Newark wants redevelopment," said Sharpe James, Mayor of the state's largest city, in a written statement provided to the study commission in January.
"Newark has space and infrastructure," Mr. James said. "Newark can meet the developer's demands that otherwise will destroy forested land, will construct unnecessary roads and bridges and will carve up the remaining open space in the Highlands."

GRAPHIC: Photos: View from fire tower looking west over Cedar Pond in West Milford. Plan by the United States Forest Service to limit development has drawn praise and criticism (pg. 1); Leslie A. DiCola, member of Forest Service's team that studied plan to limit development in Highlands area. (pg. 14) (Chet Gordon for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOREST SERVICE (US) FOREST SERVICE (92%); REGIONAL PLAN ASSOCIATION (55%); FOREST SERVICE (94%); FOREST SERVICE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE (US) FOREST SERVICE (94%); FOREST SERVICE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); SUBURBS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (76%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (76%); WATER QUALITY (70%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY ROBERT PIRANI (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



306 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 16; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: 1936 Prototype House Gets a New Life

BYLINE: States News Service

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE small concrete house in Hastings-on-Hudson had fascinated Peter Muckenhaupt for years, even though most of his neighbors thought it looked like a large, white appliance sitting on a hill.
As a 10-year-old boy, Mr. Muckenhaupt rode his bicycle to the newly paved intersection of Farragut Parkway and High Street to watch workers meticulously weld together the steel framework and carefully bolt together 10-foot-tall prefabricated concrete panels. 
 The four-room house looked peculiar among the larger Tudor- and Colonial-style homes on the street. Making it even more odd was the secrecy surrounding its construction and the fact that it was being built by Hamlin Andrus, the son of John Emery Andrus, a multimillionaire Congressman from Yonkers.
That was 1936. Despite the community's distaste for it, the house was completed, sold and eventually forgotten. But Mr. Muckenhaupt remained captivated. Now, at age 65, he not only owns the house but also has convinced the National Park Service to include it on its list of historic treasures.
In December, the Hastings Prototype House became the 110th Westchester County listing added to the National Register of Historic Places. The house is one of the first on the East Coast to be built in the sparse Modernist style, an avant-garde European design that stressed efficiency and economy over good looks.
It is also one of the first to be built with prefabricated concrete panels -- making it a precursor to modern-day skyscrapers, Mr. Muckenhaupt said.
"I was totally intrigued with it from Day 1 because it was just so different," said Mr. Muckenhaupt, who has spent many years studying the house. "It was in a very conspicuous location, right off a parkway. People in the community just didn't understand. They thought it was an abomination."
The stark-white house has few frills. Its most striking features are the curved front wall and the two-story portico over the front door.
 
Panels Stood the Test of Time
 Yet the plain white concrete walls are the main reason that the house was placed on the historic register. To make the 2-by-10-foot panels, workers in Yonkers poured cement and cinder into a mold of steel bars, which looked like a waffle iron, Mr. Muckenhaupt said.
The panels, which are patented, were light enough for two men to lift but sturdy enough not to crumble even after more than 50 years. Workers ran intricate tests of the panels before and after the house was constructed and delayed putting up the interior walls in order to conduct stress tests, Mr. Muckenhaupt said.
"They kept it as a skeleton," he said. "It looked like a barn inside."
Inside, the 800 square feet of living space was designed for efficiency, not spaciousness. There is a living room, a kitchen and two bedrooms, with a bathroom built into one of the rooms.
The house had one of the earliest types of gas-fired heating systems, which included a cooling system similar to modern air-conditioning. Fluorescent lighting was installed in the kitchen, a rare thing in 1930's homes.
 
Little Has Been Written
 Innovations in the prototype house were so unusual that they were included in the "Homes of Tomorrow" exhibition at the 1939 World's Fair in New York, Mr. Muckenhaupt discovered. But little else has been written about the house.
"Here was this amazing place, and there were no articles written on this thing," he said. "I searched endless microfilm to find references to the house."
He said he believed that "Andrus's people did not want anyone to know anything" in order to protect the patent on the concrete panels.
How the prototype was built and who built it is as unusual as its construction.
Hamlin Andrus was the driving force behind the prototype house. He hired a local architect, Charles Horn, and an industrial builder, Louis Gelbman, to design and build it. The three had planned to build similar houses in Florida, where the Andrus family owned land.
Hamlin's father, who had gained a reputation as a penny pincher, commuted every day by trolley and subway from his Yonkers mansion to the Arlington Chemical Company, his pharmaceutical concern in Manhattan.
Congressman Andrus was thought to be worth anywhere from $100 million to $800 million before the 1929 stock market crash, and even after that he was considered one of the 20 richest men in the world, according to an Andrus biographer, George P. Morrill.
 
Incentives to Save Allowances
 John Emery Andrus encouraged Hamlin and his other seven children to be thrifty -- prompting them to save their allowances by matching what each had saved at the end of the year, Mr. Morrill wrote.
After the elder Andrus died in 1934, his philanthropy lived on through the Surdna Foundation, which he started in 1917 to provide care for orphaned and troubled children. His money also built a library, a planetarium and a home for the elderly.
Hamlin Andrus, a Yale graduate, was not known for his business prowess, said Neil Larson, a researcher. While the prototype house was apparently Hamlin's idea, its design and construction dragged on for years, and he apparently lost interest in his scheme, the researcher said.
"Presumably, Andrus went on to find something else to do with his money," Mr. Muckenhaupt and Mr. Larson wrote in a report to the National Park Service.
"Today, people remember little about Hamlin Andrus except for his charming, boyish personality and his oddball investment schemes, few of which amounted to anything," the application for historic status said.
After years of research, Mr. Muckenhaupt wanted Mr. Andrus's house to have a small place in history, he said.
He bought the house -- rundown and threatened with demolition -- in 1978 and restored it to its original condition.
The house "was tragic, terrible," he said. "We wound up having to replace everything. It had to be treated like a brand-new house."
That meant stripping the inside down to its original walls and replacing 168 broken window panes, the heating and plumbing systems and the electrical wiring.
Mr. Muckenhaupt, a writer for Look magazine in the 1950's and later a public relations executive for the American Cyanamid Company in Manhattan, rented the house out for many years because it was too small for his family at the time. But now he plans to move into it, later this year, fulfilling a lifelong desire, he said.
Adding it to the National Register increases its value, but not by much, Mr. Muckenhaupt said.
"It could have more value now," he said. "It's awfully small for a house, though. I didn't do it for money. I did it to fulfill a consuming hobby."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter Muckenhaupt at back of Hastings Prototype House, with its stark lines. In contrast, dramatic portico, top, marks entry. (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (55%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (55%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES HISTORIC SITES (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); 

PERSON: MUCKENHAUPT, PETER PETER MUCKENHAUPT (94%); JOHN EMERY ANDRUS (90%); HAMLIN ANDRUS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



307 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2570 words

HEADLINE: Attention America! Snap Out of It!

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Just when Americans should be celebrating their victory in the cold war, they have grown alarmed that they are losing the next big war: the competitiveness war.
After years of watching Japan increase its manufacturing might, Americans have awakened to the dangers of losing the industrial base that long made their nation the envy of the world. At long last, Americans of all stripes, Democrat and Republican, white collar and blue, are groping for ways to close the competitiveness gap that has allowed Japan to muscle into the lead in such key industries as cars and computer chips. 
 Some of the proposed solutions are common sense. Some are controversial: for instance, some experts say the Federal Reserve should pump $25 billion into the nation's hobbled banks by purchasing their shares, which would enable them to lend some $250 billion to American companies for modernization.
Worried that American workers are ill prepared for the workplace of tomorrow, other experts say the country should adopt the German job-training system in which many high school students spend time in factories learning to master modern technologies and solve problems in teams. [One solution, page 13.]
Some say Washington should allow banks to own shares in industrial companies, as they do in Germany and Japan, because such a system of large, stable shareholders would enable American companies to think more long-term.
 
A New Cottage Industry
 These are just a few of the ideas being churned out by a new cottage industry in which hundreds of economists, think tanks, professors, politicians, columnists and management consultants ruminate full time on how to improve America's competitiveness.
To a surprising degree, these deep thinkers -- whether left-of-center or right-of-center, partisan or nonpartisan -- have reached a consensus on many prescriptions for America's economic ills. They generally agree that the nation needs to take the following steps.
* Increase savings to provide business with more money to invest in buildings and machines that increase productivity and living standards.
* Step up efforts to train American workers so they can adapt to the technologies and more flexible factories of tomorrow.
* Get companies to think long-term so they will make the strategic investments in equipment, training and research needed to compete with the Japanese and Germans.
* Rein in health-care spending, which puts a heavy burden on American industry and now accounts for 13 percent of the nation's gross domestic product, about double Japan's level.
* Spend more on research and development so that industry not only maintains its lead in innovation but also improves its ability to turn ideas into hot-selling products.
* Invest more in public structures like highways, bridges, railways and airports, which will raise productivity by reducing transportation delays and costs.
"Our greatest problem has been this nation's inability or unwillingness to adequately invest in our future productivity," said Robert B. Reich, a professor at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, whose book "The Work of Nations" examines competitiveness. "If we have an adequately educated and trained work force and a state-of-the-art infrastructure linking them together and with the rest of the world, then global capital will come here to create good jobs. If we don't, the only way global capital will be invested here is if we promise low wages."
As the economic slump extends from months to years, Americans worry increasingly that the nation requires not short-term fixes, but long-term prescriptions. Bruised by recession and foreign competition, G.M., I.B.M. and other stalwarts of Corporate America are laying off thousands of workers, helping to create a palpable eagerness to cure the competitiveness malady before more high-paying jobs vanish.
Evidence of the illness is everywhere. The weekly wages of the average American factory worker have fallen 9 percent since 1973. In recent years, productivity -- the key to improved living standards -- has grown at one-third the 1960's rate and one-quarter the Japanese rate, although America still leads the world in output per worker. Japan has certainly taken note of America's woes, with its leaders calling American workers lazy and illiterate. As the Presidential campaign gathers steam, protectionist pressures are mushrooming, a tacit admission that many industries have fallen behind.
At the same time, bridges and roads are crumbling, partly because the nation spends a far smaller fraction of gross domestic product on infrastructure than do Japan and Germany. Although Japan has half the population of the United States, its corporations invest more in absolute terms on the plants and equipment that lift a nation's productivity and living standards.
In the Annual Economic Report of the President issued last Wednesday, the President's economic advisers sounded the alarm: "Quite simply, without adequate productivity growth, America's standard of living will neither keep pace with the expectations of our citizens, nor remain the highest in the world."
 
Ideas From the Gurus
 The competitiveness gurus have made dozens of other suggestions. A few want a forthright industrial policy to build the industries of tomorrow, like superconductors. Some call for lowering the dollar further to lift exports, while others want to steer more students away from paper-pushing professions like law and toward careers more closely connected to competitiveness, like engineering.
As for what business should do, most experts say industry should put more emphasis on quality and reliability and speed up the process of getting products to market. They also say industry should be ready to customize products far more and have flexible manufacturing techniques to accomplish this. Many experts say companies should stop treating workers like discardable raw materials and involve them more in the company.
On the education front, experts stress improving primary and secondary education, especially in math and science. Others say far more has to be done to train high-school dropouts so that they can make a bigger contribution to the economy.
"The workers who drop out of school, who hardly get into the labor force, they're a tremendous drain on the future," said Robert Eisner, an economist at Northwestern University. "Productivity can be greatly improved if we train them properly."
Probably the biggest frustration for competitiveness experts is that so many recommendations go nowhere in Washington. Many complain that politicians within the Beltway are just as short-term oriented as Corporate America, caring far more about the state of the union this November than 10 Novembers hence. They also grouse that the recent generation of Dr. Feelgood politicians has refused to call for sacrifices like higher taxes.
"Politicians really underestimate the American public," said Felix Rohatyn, an investment banker with Lazard Freres, who has written numerous articles on revitalizing the economy. "Everyone knows what's required. . . . Too many politicians have given up on talking substance to people, especially when it involves some limited sacrifice."
Many economists were heartened that in his State of the Union address, President Bush talked at length about strengthening the nation's long-term prospects. Many praised his plan to increase outlays for non-military research and development 7 percent over last year, but most said his competitiveness proposals were just baby steps.
Economists often say one factor is at the heart of all the problems: Americans prefer to consume today rather than save money to be invested for tomorrow.
America seems trapped in a vicious circle because sluggish income growth over the last two decades has made families save less and borrow more in a desperate effort to maintain living standards. The catch is that a low savings rate makes it harder to increase living standards.
Japan's net household savings in 1990 were 14.3 percent of disposable income, and Germany's were 13.9 percent; both dwarfed America's 4.7. This largely explains why in recent years Japan's and Germany's investment as percentage of G.D.P. and productivity growth have far exceeded America's.
Most economists say one crucial way to lift savings and investment would be to slash the Federal budget deficit. But in an election year, President Bush and Congress seem intent on sweeping this gigantic problem under the rug. Many economists expect the deficit to soar to a record $400 billion this year and next year, up from $269 billion in 1991.
Last week, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, sternly warned the President and Congress that the deficit was an "insidious" and "corrosive" force that eroded savings and competitiveness. "I don't think you could overemphasize the importance of savings in this country as a crucial element involved in restoring the degree of long-term growth that we would all be comfortable with," he said.
According to most economists, the budget deficits and the low savings rate of the 1980's pushed up interest rates, helping to make the cost of capital higher than in Japan. That means American companies need a faster return on their investments, which makes them more short-term oriented.
"I don't believe Americans are genetically more short-term oriented than anyone else, but we have created things to force us to be short-sighted," said Clyde Prestowitz, a Reagan Administration trade official who is president of the Economic Strategy Institute, a Washington-based think tank. "Requiring quarterly profit reports, when neither the Germans nor Japanese do, helps make us focus more on the short-term."
Mr. Prestowitz noted that the chairman of Toshiba, the Japanese electronics giant, once said he was prepared to lose money for 10 years to develop flat-screen displays, which will be crucial to many major products of tomorrow, like high-definition television. "No American executive can say that," he said.
To make American business more long-term oriented, Mr. Prestowitz proposed giving shares owned by long-term shareholders more voting power. To increase the time horizons of investors and executives, Professor Reich suggested a much lower capital gains rate for investors holding assets for more than six years. President Bush took a step in that direction by proposing that assets held three years be taxed at a lower rate than those held one year.
In his new book, "Short-Term America," Michael T. Jacobs, a former Treasury official in the Bush Administration, argues that Corporate America would become less short-term oriented if banks were allowed to become major shareholders in industry. This system would make shareholders more knowledgeable and involved, he said, adding that more knowledge means less risk. Less risk, he said, means investors would provide capital at lower costs, which would lengthen the corporation's time horizon. He added that making shareholders more knowledgeable about management's strategy would also make them more patient about results.
"If you have no clue as to what's going on in strategy and feel there is nothing you can do if management messes up, then you have to look for outward measures to know if your money is being invested properly," he said. "That is one reason American investors rely so much on quarterly reports."
While competitiveness experts agree on many measures, there are sizzling disputes over others. President Bush's proposal to cut capital-gains taxes has sparked the hottest debate. He insists it will create an investment boom, but many Democrats in Congress say these cuts will be a windfall for the rich and will barely spur investment.
 
Who Will Pay?
 Another huge debate is on how to finance increased spending on education and infrastructure. Many conservatives back a spending cap on discretionary Federal programs. "If they prevented Federal spending from rising by 4 to 5 percent a year, that would free up $50 billion a year," said Martin Anderson, an economist at the Hoover Institution.
But some economists say that once the current downturn ends, the Government should raise taxes to finance needs like improved schools. Advocates of higher taxes often note that in the United States, taxes represent a lower share of G.D.P. than in any other major industrial nation. "Higher taxes and more homework -- that's my platform," said Charles Schultze, a Brookings Institution economist. "That might not get me elected, but that's what America needs."
Mr. Rohatyn, the investment banker, said cuts in military spending resulting from the end of the cold war should provide plenty of money for programs to increase competitiveness. He also suggests a 50-cent-a-gallon increase in the gasoline tax, still be far below the taxes in many European countries. The increase would not only raise $50 billion a year, but would promote conservation, reduce oil imports and cut the trade deficit.
Mr. Rohatyn also proposes that the Government pump $25 billion into the banking system by buying non-voting stock. This would help end the credit crunch that is prolonging the recession and provide money for long-term modernization. President Franklin D. Roosevelt did the same thing to shore up the banking system, and after the banks regained their health, the Government sold its shares at a profit.
It is of course possible that all these proposals, timid or bold, will fall flat in Washington. For the last 12 years, the Reagan and Bush Administrations have for the most part taken a laissez-faire approach, believing corporations do best with a minimum of interference. But the five Democrats running for President say the time is ripe for Washington to become involved.
Who wins in November will in large part determine how aggressively the Government attacks these problems.
 
 
POTATO CHIPS OR MICROCHIPS?
 To some experts, an essential part of closing the competitiveness gap is to adopt an explicit industrial policy, where Washington openly aids industries considered vital for the future through research grants and other support.
These experts say America is competing with one hand tied behind its back, asserting that Japan and other countries have potent industrial policies. "Domestically we don't have a policy regarding the structure of our economy," said Clyde Prestowitz, a Reagan Administration trade official who now heads the Economic Strategy Institute, a Washington think tank. "The attitude is, 'Computer chips, potato chips, they're no different.' "
Mr. Prestowitz much prefers computer chips, saying Washington should strengthen industries that add a lot of value, bring in export revenues and pay high salaries.
Advocates say America has an implicit industrial policy. Heavy funding for military research has made American arms makers the world's best. Tax breaks have favored commercial real estate. Subsidies help keep farmers in business. "We have an agricultural extension service," said Mr. Prestowitz. "Why can't we have a technological extension service."
Free-market economists worry that an industrial policy would have a heavy-handed Washington deciding which companies live or die. And if it does to electronics what it has done to commercial real estate, they say, it won't be doing anyone any favors.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Core Problem Is Lack of Productivity Growth," tracks relative growth in productivity for Japan, Germany and U.S., 1960-1990 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 1); "U.S. Investment is Flat ...", tracks capital investment as a percentage of gross domestic product for Japan, Germany and U.S., 1960-88 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics); "... And R.&D. Spending is Lagging," tracks spending on non-military research and development, as a percentage of gross national product for Japan, Germany and U.S., 1971-89 (Source: National Science Foundation); "Japanese Workers Are Paid Less ..." tracks average hourly cost to employers of production workers in manufacturing, for Japan, Germany and U.S., 1960-1990 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics); "... And Work the Longest Hours," tracks average weekly hours worked in manufacturing, 1960-1990 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics); "Americans Pay Relatively Low Taxes ..." tracks total tax revenues, as a percentage of gross domestic product, 1965-89 (Soruce: O.E.C.D.); "...But Manage to Save the Least," tracks household saving as a percentage of income, 1968-90 (Source: O.E.C.D.) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%); GERMANY (96%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (93%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (93%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (93%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (93%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%); GERMANY (96%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY COLD WAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); SALES & SELLING (67%); LIVING STANDARDS (67%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (60%); HIGH SCHOOLS (52%); WRITERS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



308 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
The Altered Outlook on Interest

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer

 BODY:
Last week three events, one in Germany and two in Washington, altered the near-term outlook for interest rates and stocks. As a result, rates will not be cut soon in Europe and rates may decline further in the United States.
Some analysts were not surprised by the latest developments. But, obviously, many investors were expecting something else. This was clear in the recent strong performance of the dollar, the rise of interest rates here and the rally of some stock markets in Europe. 
 In Germany and Europe, hopes were dashed for an early easing of interest rates by the German central bank, the Bundesbank. Recent rallies of the dollar and some stock markets were attributed in part to the expectation of a cut in short-term rates soon, maybe even by May or June.
In the United States, the result was the opposite. There is now a new chance for a further easing of short-term interest rates here, an expectation that many in the market had abandoned in the last month because of comments by the Federal Reserve Board chairman, Alan Greenspan.
For investors this means that European stock markets should be in for some corrections. For Americans, the dollar should be weaker against European currencies, which means that if they are selling European stocks in the near future, their gains from abroad could be enhanced.
"In the short term we have to be cautious" about corrections in European stock markets, said Nigel Rendell, an international economist for James Capel Inc. in London.
By Friday, the dollar was down 3.4 percent last week against the German mark. In London, the Financial Times Stock Exchange index of 100 leading shares fell 2.1 percent during the week. The French CAC index of 40 shares was down seven-tenths of 1 percent, and the German DAX index of 30 shares was up just a fraction.
The event in Germany that changed investment prospects was the settlement without a strike of the wage negotiations between the steel industry and its union. The wage agreement of 6.4 percent for the year was higher than some had hoped. If this increase were matched in other negotiations now in progress, wages would rise this year much more than the Bundesbank wants. Helmut Schlesinger, the Bundesbank president, made this clear in a news conference on Friday. "It would be very critical if the steelworkers' wage agreement should be the benchmark for the 1992 pay round," he warned.
This wage development, the Bundesbank's concern about inflation and the continued rapid growth of the money supply all point to no quick easing in interest rates. Some analysts are even talking of another increase.
In the United States, the pivotal events were new comments from Mr. Greenspan followed on Friday by the announcement of an unexpected decline in nonfarm payroll jobs. In his testimony to Congress early in the week, Mr. Greenspan went out of his way to emphasize that the Federal Reserve would, if it deemed necessary, push short-term interest rates lower to assure an economic recovery in the United States.
This new emphasis changed the conventional wisdom, which had held since testimony by Mr. Greenspan on Jan. 10 that the Fed had reached the end of this round of easing.
Last month's rallies in stocks and the dollar suggest that investors were pinning too much hope on the steel negotiations in Germany and focusing too much on comments by Mr. Greenspan that he thought the Fed had already cut interest rates enough to spark a recovery.
"We had thought that the market had become misguided as to what the standards and criteria were for the Bundesbank by assuming that the wage settlement was the be-all and the end-all," said John Lipsky, the chief economist at Salomon Brothers. "The markets had become too optimistic."
Mr. Lipsky said the Bundesbank was worried about much more than the wage settlements. And the signals it was giving in these other areas, including the growth of the money supply and credit, already provided indications that a near-term easing of interest rates was not likely.
In addition, Mr. Lipsky said that Mr. Greenspan had indicated a willingness to ease further in other recent testimony.
"In recent appearances the media and the markets have only seen the first part of his statement and have interpreted what he was saying as no more Fed easing and ignoring the second part of the formula," Mr. Lipsky said. "In Tuesday's testimony it seemed that Mr. Greenspan wanted to see that both statements were heard and heeded."
While last week's events alter the near-term outlook, Mr. Lipsky said he still expected interest rates in Europe to be falling by the end of the year, which would give a lift to the dollar and stock markets.
Mr. Lipsky said that even if German wage settlements average 6 percent, which would be below last year's average of 6.7 percent, this should not choke off a decline in interest rates but just slow it down. He said such wage settlements should allow inflation, which is now 4 percent, to fall as low as 3 percent by the end of the year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS314110 CARPET & RUG MILLS (66%); SIC2273 CARPETS & RUGS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (66%); CAPEL INC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US DOLLAR (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (75%); GERMAN MARK (73%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); FACTORY WORKERS (66%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



309 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: Making a Difference;
Canada's Mr. Fix-It

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH

DATELINE: TORONTO

 BODY:
"Run it past Maz," they say when anyone wants to get anything done in Ottawa. Maz is Donald Mazankowski, the Finance Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and chief operating officer of the Tory Government -- the man now charged with energizing a palsied Canadian economy.
Although his hands are tied by weak tax revenues and rising bills for welfare and the unemployed, the 56-year-old Minister of Everything -- as he is also sometimes known -- showed a little of his stuff last week when he and his like-minded boss, Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, approved a sharp cut in minimum down payments for first-time home buyers. 
 That action, which costs the Government no money, could raise housing starts by at least 15 percent, builders said, not only providing work for the depressed construction industry but spurring demand for washer-dryers, bedroom sets, rugs, curtains and other goods that fill new homes.
A small-town boy from northern Alberta who got his start in small business and used to work in a hardware store, Mr. Mazankowski now stands behind the biggest -- and emptiest -- cash register in the country as he prepares a budget for the new fiscal year that he insists must avoid any further rise in the deficit. "He's looking for novel ways of stimulating without departing from the framework of fiscal austerity," said his press secretary, Tom Van Dusen.
One of the other ideas, which has echoes in the United States, is to permit withdrawals from Canada's equivalent of individual retirement accounts for first-time home purchases.
Also being run favorably past Maz is a plan that has been around for some years to build an eight-mile causeway and bridge across Northumberland Strait, establishing for the first time a fixed link between Canada's smallest province, Prince Edward Island, and the mainland. Mr. Mazankowski, who many say could be a future Prime Minister, figures that over the long term the Government would save by building the bridge because it would be relieved of subsidizing ferry service.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Construction site in Ontario. (Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); ALBERTA, CANADA (58%); PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND, CANADA (57%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); ALBERTA, CANADA (58%); PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND, CANADA (57%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); HOUSING STARTS (74%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%); TRENDS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (66%); FERRIES (62%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (50%); 

PERSON: MAZANKOWSKI, DONALD (MIN); FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; MAZANKOWSKI, DONALD (MIN) (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) BRIAN MULRONEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



310 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Making a Difference;
'Thrilled Beyond Belief'

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
The Beach Boys sang, Henry Kravis danced disco and waiters in surfing garb offered White Castle burgers and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches. Thus -- with food from the 50's, music from the 60's, dance steps from the 70's and celebrities from the 80's -- did the FMR Corporation introduce Worth, its magazine for the 90's, last Wednesday at Roseland in New York City.
FMR, the parent of Fidelity Investments, the giant mutual fund company, has put $20 million of its own money into the venture, and its chairman, Edwin C. Johnson 3d, was at the party, boasting and beaming over what he called his "new baby." 
 But the man of the hour, resplendent in a royal-and-orange Hawaiian print blazer with coordinating ascot and baseball cap, was W. Randall Jones, the 36-year-old former publisher of Esquire and now the chief executive of Worth.
In a day-after interview, Mr. Jones pronounced it a wonderful party, one in which Mr. Kravis and Robert Trump, Donald's brother, could "have fun in the same room" with unknown media planners. "And I have been thrilled beyond belief at the response to the magazine," he added. "Everyone at the least admires our courage for launching a magazine in this economy -- and, at the best, is mesmerized by the first issue."
According to its birth certificate -- the party press kit -- Worth is a personal finance magazine aimed at "leading-edge baby boomers who want to take control of their financial destinies."
The maiden issue featured a look at stock index funds, concluding that a low-fee Vanguard fund was a better deal than a Fidelity rival. But a piece on the boom in baseball card collecting did not mention that Fidelity funds have been big investors in Score Board, which sells baseball cards and collector kits.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cover of Worth magazine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: WORTH (MAGAZINE); FMR CORP FMR CORP (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORTH (MAGAZINE); FMR CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BASEBALL (88%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (76%); INDEX FUNDS (70%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (67%); BABY BOOMERS (64%); EXECUTIVES (53%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (51%); 

PERSON: JONES, W RANDALL; HENRIQUES, DIANA B HENRY KRAVIS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



311 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1922 words

HEADLINE: Britain's Low-Profile Publishing Giant

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
Ask securities analysts what they think of Reed International P.L.C. and many quickly say they like what the British company is not: a publishing giant dominated by one person.
That is understandable, given the collapse of Robert Maxwell's empire and the dire financial straits from which Rupert Murdoch's conglomerate is now emerging. Reed has spent more than $4 billion in the last six years on more than 100 acquisitions of consumer magazine, book, giveaway newspaper and information companies to become one of the world's largest publishers. While it often paid what seemed like high prices, it has not suffered from indigestion, let alone choked on the meal, despite recessions in its main markets, Britain and the United States. 
 Reed has even picked off pieces from the stricken Maxwell and Murdoch empires. In October, it paid the Maxwell Communication Corporation $145 million for directories, including Who's Who in America and a variety of business and professional listings. In 1989, Reed paid $825 million for Mr. Murdoch's Travel Information Group, which supplies hotel booking information to travel agents and corporate customers and also owns travel industry trade journals.
And Peter J. Davis, Reed's chairman and chief executive, is tentatively interested in yet another course: the bankrupt Maxwell Communication's Official Airline Guides, the dominant supplier of airline-schedule information to travel agents and computerized reservations systems in the United States.
"We would possibly be interested at the right price," he said. "That's quite a qualified possibly." Caution, in fact, is his watchword. Mr. Davis is proud that Reed allowed itself to be outbid by about $300 million for Official Airline Guides in 1988, when Mr. Maxwell paid what in hindsight was an astronomical $750 million.
Most Americans and Britons have probably never heard of Reed even though it is a major force in their countries. But Mr. Davis, pointing to all the entrepreneurs and financiers who built business empires in the go-go 1980's only to collapse in the 1990's, says he has no apologies about the low-profile "professional managers" who run Reed.
Reed delegates a lot of authority to operating companies but maintains tight central financial and strategic controls, he said, often installing its own financial executives in new acquisitions.
"It's not an ego-driven company," said Peter Bart, editorial director of Variety and Daily Variety, the two American entertainment trade publications Reed purchased in 1987. "The annual budget sessions at Reed are vastly more complex, detailed and strategically oriented than the other companies where I've worked," said Mr. Bart, who has been at three major film studios.
Unlike the Maxwell and Murdoch empires, Reed has been wary of taking on too much debt. Before making its acquisitions, it raised cash by divesting a slew of mostly nonpublishing businesses. As of Sept. 30, net debt -- that is, gross debt minus cash -- totaled 489 million ($855 million) or about 37 percent of equity. "The balance sheet is not under any pressure at all," said Terry Connor, an analyst at Smith New Court Securities Ltd.
At Reed, executives talk as much about the importance of maintaining a high credit rating and interest coverage -- how many times earnings cover interest payments -- as about the importance of products.
Mr. Davis, who is 50, says it is no coincidence that Reed almost never makes a public, let alone hostile, takeover bid. What Reed likes to do is take its own quiet time to assure itself that it knows just what it's buying. It may be no coincidence that an acquisition for which analysts still think Reed paid too much was a rare exception to the rule: the $840 million 1987 purchase of Britain's Octopus Publishing Group.
Some analysts, however, accuse Reed of being an unfocused conglomerate. For example, in the United States, Reed's Cahners Publishing Company is the leader in specialty trade and technical journals, with 69 publications as diverse as Variety and Modern Materials Handling. Cahners also has a growing stable of consumer magazines: the 13 include American Baby and Sail. Other American businesses include Martindale-Hubbell, whose Law Directory provides biographical information and ratings on more than 800,000 lawyers, and R.R. Bowker, publisher of Books in Print.
In Britain, Reed is the biggest publisher of consumer magazines as well as giveaway newspapers. It also owns a slew of directories, career guides and trade magazines, several of which are published in other European countries. Its ABC International is the biggest publisher of airline-schedule information outside the United States.
The usually congenial Mr. Davis bristles at the charges that Reed is unfocused, especially considering its past. Founded in the 1890's as a paper maker, Reed had by the late 1970's expanded into packaging, publishing, paint and wallpaper, bathroom fixtures and even wine. But it was foundering. So its leaders first decided to focus on paper, packaging and publishing, and then, in the mid-1980's, on publishing and information.
A sales and marketing expert who had worked at J. Sainsbury P.L.C., the British supermarket and home-improvement retailer, and the General Foods Corporation, Mr. Davis has overseen the second phase. Recruited to balance Reed's financially oriented executive ranks, he joined Reed in March 1986 as deputy chief executive and became chief executive the following November.
Besides not being too dependent on one market, he sees Reed continuing to expand in niche publications, whether they be regional newspapers, specialty business magazines or consumer magazines. "What advertisers are increasingly looking for are carefully targeted specific distribution media," he said. Advertising accounts for about 40 percent of Reed's revenues.
Already the world's largest organizer of trade exhibitions, Reed has also used customer lists from its businesses and others to develop data bases that can offer direct-mail advertisers clearly defined audiences.
The company's pre-tax profits have soared, by 120 percent over four years, to 302 million ($498.3 million) for the year ended March 31, 1990. In the same period, operating profit margin (profits before taxes, interest and exceptional items as a percent of sales) grew to 17.6 percent from 8.6 percent. (The economic downturns in the United States and Britain did cause pre-tax profits to dip in the last fiscal year, to $388.4 million on revenues of $2.77 billion. Analysts expect earnings to be flat or down slightly this fiscal year.)
Given these results, some analysts are reluctant to proclaim the transformation of Reed a smash success just yet. The stock, having touched a high of 6.20 a share in London in the heady mid-80's on speculation that Mr. Murdoch might try to buy the company, then plunged, has been trending up since late 1990 to a current level of about 5.25 ($9.55).
"It's a well-run company," said Mr. Connor of Smith New Court. "But like every other international publishing company, over the longer term they have to demonstrate that growth can come from more than acquisitions or growth in the economies they're in. They have yet to demonstrate the operating synergies between their various businesses."
Analysts also note that Reed's leaders have made some expensive detours, like subscription television in Britain, in their pursuit of a focused strategy. Reed had owned 20.9 percent of British Satellite Broadcasting and now has a 3.7 percent stake in British Sky Broadcasting, the product of the 1990 merger of B.S.B. and Mr. Murdoch's Sky Television. Last year, Reed took a charge to cover its $94.6 million investment in the venture.
Louise Barton of London-based Henderson Crosthwaite Institutional Brokers Ltd. echoes other analysts in praising the quality of Reed's management. But she worries that it is being spread too thin by its acquisitions. She also questions the strategic fit of consumer publishing, especially consumer books, Octopus's main business, and regional newspapers. "There's no synergy with the rest of the group. And they are mature, highly competitive businesses," she said.
But Mr. Davis says he has no intentions of selling these businesses. He also insists that Reed has already demonstrated its ability to improve the performance of acquisitions by reducing their costs, expanding their product lines, taking them international and offering their information electronically.
Such steps have enabled the Travel Information Group's operating profits to increase by about 60 percent since Reed acquired it in mid-1989, while Martindale-Hubbell's have doubled since it was purchased two years ago, Ms. Barton estimates.
At the Travel Information Group, Reed has come out with an international edition of its mainstay hotel directory, the Hotel & Travel Index, which before had only been sold in the United States, and further expanded the group's electronic distribution system.
When Reed bought Martindale-Hubbell, none of its information was available electronically. Now, the Law Directory is available on Mead Corporation's Lexis electronic network and on compact disks.
Britain accounts for about half of Reed's profits and revenues, a share Mr. Davis sees falling to 35 to 40 percent in five years or so as contributions from the United States, continental Europe and the Asia-Pacific region rise.
Reed could manage another big acquisition without lowering its interest coverage too much, he says. But in Europe at least, it has been rebuffed by several publishing companies, including Britain's Pearson P.L.C. and Elsevier of the Netherlands. "We haven't found either the right major acquisition or the right alliance although we would still like to," Mr. Davis said.
 
 
 
IMAGE-BEARING TRAVEL ADS
 The number of companies that distribute information via computer may be soaring, but advertisers eager to have potential customers see pictures of their products have all but ignored electronic publishers. That may now be changing due to technology like laser disks, digital compact disks and high-resolution computer screens.
In the worldwide travel industry, only two of the main computerized reservation systems used by agents to book hotels, flights, cruises and rental cars now enable advertisers to display pictures and maps on agents' screens. They are American Airlines' Sabre and Worldspan, whose main owners are Delta Air Lines, Northwest and Trans World Airlines. Apollo, the system owned by United, USAir, Air Canada and four European airlines, plans to begin offering maps, but not pictures, in June.
Less than $10 million a year is spent to advertise on reservation systems, but image-bearing ads already count for about half of that, estimates Samuel C. Wolgemuth, an executive at Reed International P.L.C., which sells the ads to Sabre. "As image ads catch on over the next five years, the total will jump 10-fold," he predicted.
The enhanced Sabre line -- Sabrevision -- was introduced in October 1990, more than a year after Worldspan's Iris, or integrated reservations and imaging system. But Sabrevision is in more than 1,600 travel agencies in the United States, Canada and the Carribean. Iris is in 315. One Sabrevision advantage is that its compact-disk player can be linked to up to 15 personal computers. The Iris laser-disk system, unlike Sabrevision, offers motion pictures and sound but needs a dedicated terminal.


GRAPHIC: 
Table: "Reed's Recent Publishing Acquisitions," lists Reed acquisitions, home country, date of acquisition and price paid (Source: Reed International P.L.C.)
 
Graph: "A Publishing Colossus," shows breakdown of Reed International's fiscal 1991 revenues by business out of total of $2,770 million (Source: Estimates from Henderson Crostwaite Institutional Brokers Ltd.)
Photo: Peter J. Davies leads the acquisition-minded publishing house in conservative fashion. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RUK (NYSE) (96%); REL (LSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (96%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (96%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: REED INTERNATIONAL PLC REED ELSEVIER PLC (96%); OFFICIAL AIRLINE GUIDES INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: REED INTERNATIONAL PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES PUBLISHING (93%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (76%); EXECUTIVES (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (60%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN; DAVIS, PETER J KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (79%); STEVEN A DAVIS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



312 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 25; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
Endangered: Retiree Health Benefits

BYLINE: By BARBARA PRESLEY NOBLE

 BODY:
IT would be perfectly understandable if Harold S. Share expressed some bitterness about nearly being done out of his retirement health benefits by the bankruptcy of the Federated-Allied department stores. "There is no shortage of villains," said Mr. Share, a former vice president at an Allied Stern's store in Paramus, N.J., but he said his place of employment was not among them.
"It was the excess of the 80's manifesting itself. It was Campeau and the people who provided him money," Mr. Share said, a bit of heat creeping into his voice when he referred to Robert Campeau, the quintessential financial buccaneer of the 1980's who at one point owned Federated and Allied. "It was not the management of the stores." 
 The saga of Federated Department Stores and the Allied Stores Corporation -- at $8.2 billion, it was and remains one of the most expensive nonbanking bankruptcies ever -- has wound its way to an apparently happy denouement. Mr. Campeau is long since out of the picture and last Wednesday, the stores, which include Bloomingdale's, Bon Marche and Jordan Marsh, emerged with a reorganization plan.
A small piece of that plan pertains to Mr. Share, who as the unpaid head of the Official Retirees Committee represented some 6,400 nonunionized employees, from clerks to senior executives, who retired before Federated-Allied entered Chapter 11 in January 1990. After 13 months of negotiating, Mr. Share and his committee reached a compromise with the department stores that preserved a semblance of the retirees' health benefits.
The Federated-Allied dispute emerged from one of the iron laws of business: companies, especially companies in mortal peril, will trim costs where they can. As times and hardball tactics grow harder, benefits of all types for all employees, past and present, have become fair game. A General Accounting Office study last year of 40 troubled companies found that nearly half ended benefits for some 91,000 employees. Nine million retirees are enrolled in health plans that could be terminated.
In the Federated-Allied bankruptcy, the company insisted it had the right to modify or end the health benefits offered to retirees -- as it did with current employees and post-bankruptcy retirees. "The pre-bankruptcy retirees argued they should be insulated from the changing costs of health care," said Glen D. Nager, a partner at Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue in Washington, which represented Federated-Allied.
The retirees argued that modifications could turn into de facto terminations because of rising costs or reduced benefits.
The two parties stayed at the bargaining table, through thickening and thinning patience, as mandated by Judge J. Vincent Aug Jr. of the Federal Bankruptcy Court in Cincinnati, where Federated is based. According to both sides in the negotiations, the retirees' settlement represented persistence and ingenuity, in court and at the table.
In October, Judge Aug ruled against the retirees' argument that their benefits were vested for life, a decision that may clarify a provision of the bankruptcy code designed to protect retiree benefits.
But pivotal action took place around the table where, the sides agree, there were two crucial moments. One occurred when the retirees suggested that rather than continue haggling over restricting changes in the dozens of plans offered, the company make a "defined contribution" to a trust fund that would be administered independently.
The second came after a period of wrangling over how the fund would be administered, when the company accepted a proposal to establish a VEBA, or voluntary employee benefits association, a trust that provides tax benefits and a degree of insulation for the retirees from the potential vagaries of Federated-Allied's future.
In the settlement approved by Judge Aug 10 days ago, Federated agreed to make quarterly payments totaling $80 million over 50 years into the VEBA. The pact takes inflation and rising health care costs into account.
Mr. Nager of Jones, Day thinks the retirees did very well for themselves, at his client's expense. Their desire to protect themselves was reasonable, he says, but so was Federated-Allied's attempt to be responsible to creditors. "Sometimes solutions have to come from other sources than the company in Chapter 11," he said.
Mr. Share says the retirees will get about 42 percent less in benefits than they did before the bankruptcy -- but about 50 percent more than the the post-petition retirees get now. The best part, he says, is that "we are in control of our own destiny."
 
 
 
A SOMETIMES CHILLING END TO BENEFITS
 During its epic bankruptcy in 1986, the LTV Corporation created a pension and benefit milestone by declining to put retirees before other creditors. Since then, despite protective legislation -- passed and in progress -- retiree benefits are not the sure thing they once were. David Certner, a pension specialist at the American Association of Retired Persons, says retirees in general are being asked to assume more of the cost of health care. "A bankruptcy speeds up the process of pushing costs back on the retirees," he said.
The scope and suddeness of a turn in retiree fortunes can be breathtaking. When Pan American World Airways went bankrupt in December after a deal with Delta Air Lines collapsed, more than 20,000 retirees and their dependents were suddenly left without health benefits.
"The retirees' committee is scrambling to find the money for those who aren't insurable," said Kevin Burke, a lawyer at Cahill Gordon & Reindel who is working on the Pan Am and Federated bankruptcies. "We're not even sure how many there are yet."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harold Share helped salvage a health-benefits plan for retirees at the bankrupt Federated-Allied stores. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (91%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (91%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (62%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ALLIED STORES CORP; FEDERATED STORES INC MACY'S INC (91%); FEDERATED-ALLIED CREDIT SERVICES (90%); ALLIED STORES CORP (69%); JONES DAY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALLIED STORES CORP; FEDERATED STORES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; RETIREMENT; HEALTH INSURANCE RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (63%); 

PERSON: SHARE, HAROLD; NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY ROBERT JOSEPH CAMPEAU (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



313 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
Mr. Yacktman's 10-Year Horizon

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
Donald A. Yacktman, who manages the $700 million Selected American Shares fund, based in Chicago, has consistently beaten his peers by 4 percentage points a year. For the three years that ended on Dec. 31, for instance, Selected American Shares rose an annual average of 19.1 percent, compared with 15 percent for all growth-and-income funds. The fund gained an annual average of 15.6 percent in the last five years and 18.8 percent in the last decade.
In 1991, the fund's gains were particularly strong -- it rose 46.3 percent compared with 29.3 percent for all growth-and-income funds. But even more impressive is how Mr. Yacktman did it. "He buys bigger blue-chip value-oriented companies but managed to turn in a terrific showing in a year that favored small, go-go growth stocks," said Don Phillips, vice president of Morningstar Inc., a mutual fund research group. Mr. Phillips calls Selected American Shares "a solid, all-weather fund." 
 How does Mr. Yacktman manage to shine in good markets and bad? "I don't worry about predicting where inflation, the stock market, the economy or interest rates are going because you can't control them," he said. "But you can put a value on a business and then buy it at a discount."
Mr. Yacktman looks for companies in "good businesses" with "shareholder-friendly management." A good business, in his estimation, is one with a high return on tangible assets, few fixed assets and high turnover of products and services.
As for shareholder-friendly management, he looks at what a company does with its cash. The best use of cash, he says, is re investing in the core business or making acquisitions that fit well with the existing operation. He also likes managements that buy back shares because "they generally buy their own business at a discount to its true market value." [The contrary view, in Wall Street, page 15.]
As for dividends, he said, "the smaller, the better." As he explained it, a good chief executive should be able to do a better job of recycling cash than an individual investor. Worse than paying high dividends in many cases, he thinks, is paying down debt, which reduces the return on assets. But the least desirable course is to sit on the cash.
After finding good management, Mr. Yacktman turns his attention to price. He looks for low price-earnings ratios and buys shares "when the market is unhappy with the stock," usually for one of three reasons: an overall market decline, worries about a company's product or future, or a short-term problem that the market views as long term. In 10 years, he expects a stock to be worth 5 or 10 times what he pays for it. Three examples of cases in the last decade are General Mills, RJR Nabisco and Philip Morris.
Mr. Yacktman, who is 50 years old, grew up in Salt Lake City and began investing when he was still a student at the University of Utah, where he studied economics and engineering. After attending Harvard Business School, he worked for the investment firm of Stein Roe for 14 years, then left to join a small brokerage firm in Chicago. In late 1982, he took over the venerable Selected American Shares, which was set up in 1933.
Mr. Yacktman's investment style is slow and steady. He works with a decade-long horizon, so it is not surprising that in 1991 the fund's turnover ratio -- the amount of stocks replaced in the fund -- was only 21 percent. That compares with a turnover ratio of more than 90 percent for the average stock fund.
The fund can be fully invested or can hold as much as one-quarter of its assets in cash, and the average cash position is about 5 percent. Because Mr. Yacktman often buys shares when the market is down -- at the same time disenchanted mutual fund investors often sell -- he insisted on an unusual provision in the fund's rules: instead of selling fund holdings to meet investor redemptions, he can borrow money to do so. But he lets cash build if he cannot find acceptable stocks to buy. "I'm better off earning 4 percent on the money than losing it," he said.
Over all, Mr. Yacktman said, the fund earns its returns "on some very big long-term gainers while the worst stocks tend to be break-evens."
As of the end of 1991, the fund's biggest sectors were financial services (16.4 percent), health care (12.5 percent), food (10 percent) and tobacco (9.5 percent). The largest holding is Freddie Mac, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, which Mr. Yacktman bought in late 1989, about a year after the Goverment-owned corporation went public.
The fund's second-largest holding is RJR Nabisco, which Mr. Yacktman has owned in one form or another for more than 10 years. He said that while he does not endorse the use of tobacco, "it's a license to print money," creating a very profitable business, and the company is also strong in its food business.
Next comes Capital Cities/ABC, whose stock bobbed up and down last year because of analysts' concerns about the strength of the network television business. Mr. Yacktman, however, says the company "makes most of its money at the station level."
That is followed by Time Warner, which he says is suffering a "media hangover problem" even though its cable television, music and movie businesses are profitable.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald Yacktman puts a value on a business and buys at a discount.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BONDS (78%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTEREST RATES (51%); 

PERSON: YACKTMAN, DONALD; GOULD, CAROLE MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



314 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1515 words

HEADLINE: All About/Conference Centers;
Shorter Meetings on Short Notice Are the Rule

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
Talk may be cheap, but not if you consider the $54.6 billion generated by the 350,867 meetings, conferences and conventions held last year, according to the International Association of Convention and Visitor Bureaus.
While conventions are the most glamorous part of the meetings market, sometimes involving a trade show and thousands of people, corporate conferences account for about 80 percent of the business. They rarely exceed 100 people and most are devoted to one topic. 
 While the number of conferences probably did not decline much if at all last year, despite the sagging economy and the Persian Gulf war, most were held closer to home and bargaining for lower rates was more common. "What we also saw," said Edwin L. Griffin Jr., chief executive of Meeting Planners, whose 10,500 members include about 4,000 corporate meeting planners, "was not so much fewer meetings but shorter and more intense meetings -- down from about four days to two and three."
Another trend, according to Tom Bolman, executive director of the 165-member International Association of Conference Centers, in Fenton, Mo., is that conferences are being arranged on much shorter notice than in the past with lead times of three months, rather than six months or more.
 
Not Just Motels
Meeting on Ships And at the Airport
 With so much money riding on conferences, it should not be surprising that everyone is getting into the act. Cruise ships are being built with conference rooms and existing ships are being reconfigured to include them. And not only are most airports surrounded by hotels that cater as much to conferences as to weary travelers, but airlines themselves are starting to provide conference sites.
American Airlines, for example, has eight conference rooms at La Guardia Airport in New York and 19 at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago. The rooms, which rent for $35 to $50 an hour, have the usual audio-visual equipment as well as such standard features as controlled lighting, flipcharts and moveable walls.
But 70 percent of all conferences are held in hotels and motels. "Conferences and conventions are the lifeblood of much of the hotel business," said Vivian A. Deuschl, a spokeswoman for the Ritz Carlton Hotel Company. "They affect your occupancy rates, your catering service and your restaurant business."
For that reason Holiday Inns is now aggressively pursuing the conference business, especially at its 53 larger Crowne Plazas. Such business currently accounts for only about 20 percent of the chain's business.
By contrast, hotels in the middle-price range, like Marriotts and Hyatts, bank on at least 30 percent of their business from meetings and often do much better. Last year corporate meetings accounted for 49 percent of the total business at the 23 Ritz Carlton hotels in the United States. At the ITT Sheraton Corporation's 290 hotel operations in North America, meetings accounted for 35 to 40 percent of last year's total business.
"The company tries to hold that percentage to no more than 40," said Pamela Hanlon, an ITT Sheraton vice president, "to avoid becoming overly dependent on a business that is often the first to be eliminated in an economic downturn."
At resort hotels, meetings accounted for $6 billion in 1990, or 43 percent of their total revenue, according to Coopers & Lybrand, an accounting firm. But the recession and the Persian Gulf war cut into that business sharply last year, causing many cancellations and lost bookings. Industry executives do not expect significant improvement before fall.
 
Letting the Public in
A Source of Business For the Weekends
 Most conference centers expect 1992 to be better than last year, when business was O.K. but not robust. Most of the approximately 300 centers survived the general economic downturn as well as they did because they were designed to accommodate small group meetings and thus were well positioned for the smaller, regional meetings that are now popular.
Conference centers, which generate some $3.5 billion in annual revenues, according to the accounting firm of Pannell Kerr Forster, range in size from 32 guest rooms (the Beaver Hollow Lodge and Conference Center in Java Center, N.Y.) to 400 guest rooms and four suites (the DFW Hilton Executive Conference Center in Grapevine, Tex.).
Many centers are open to the public on weekends. The Doral Arrowwood, a 274-room resort conference center set amid 114 acres of hills and fairways in New York's Westchester County does a strong outside business. The Radisson Corporation is also looking to do a brisk business with the public at the Scanticon-Minneapolis in Plymouth, Minn., whose management it took over six months ago (and renamed the Radisson Hotel and Conference Center -- Minneapolis).
Many corporate conference centers are closed to the general public, including those owned by Whirlpool, Motorola, American Express, Merck & Company and S.C. Johnson & Son. The GTE Management Development Center in Norwalk, Conn., is also closed to the public, but portions of the center are rented to Xerox and Champion.
The Chase Development Center in Wall Street -- owned and operated by the Chase Manhattan Bank Corporation -- also rents to other corporations, including Metropolitan Life, J. P. Morgan and many investment bankers. Some 75,000 people use the center each year, according to Virginia Stott, its managing director, and outside renters account for as much as 35 percent of the total during the peak meeting months of May and June and September through November. "Renting the center helps defray the operating costs," said Ms. Stott.
Without overnight accommodations, the Chase center charges $118 a day per person, including meals, conference rooms and amenities. The average meeting at the center lasts three days, Ms. Stott said, and is devoted to professional development. The industry-wide price range at conference centers is $150 to $350 a day.
 
A Campus Setting
Universities Cater To Nonprofit Groups
 The nation's first conference center, Arden House, opened in 1950 on the Harriman, N.Y., campus of Columbia University. Still regarded as one of the very best, with average occupancy of 65 to 70 percent a year, it now has plenty of competition.
In recent years modern conference centers have been built at many campuses, including Duke University, Babson College and the Universities of Alabama, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin.
Among the trends reported at not-for-profit conference centers are the growing attendance of foreign executives and the growing number of weekend meetings.
Ten countries were represented among the 20 participants at the Conference Center Management Course at Cornell University last summer. And managers of other conference houses say that foreign executives often make up 25 percent of the participants.
As for weekend meetings, Richard F. Kopacz, general manager of the Arden Conference Center, said that such conferences are increasingly popular for scientific meetings or for conferences sponsored by various departments of Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons. Among other things, Arden has the advantage of being close to Columbia's campus.
 
 
THE FLOATING CONVENTIONS
 The 75,000-ton Monarch of the Seas was christened last November, and already the $300 million ship has been the site of many meetings in its conference center, a wood-paneled room that can accommodate 80 people. When the Monarch's sister ship, Majesty of the Seas, comes on line in April, it will have an identical center.
"If we had made cabins instead of conference rooms, we would have realized in excess of $1 million more on each ship over the first year or two," said LLoyd Axelrod, director of public relations for the Royal Caribbean Cruise Line, which owns the ships.
Mr. Axelrod is quick to point out that the company fully expects to earn more than that $1 million, because the conference business on cruise lines is big and getting bigger. "Over the last three years our conferences and meetings have risen from 6 percent to 10 percent of our overall business," said Lisa Lutoff-Perlo, director of incentive sales for Royal Crown. The typical cruise is three to five days with a group of 50 to 200 people.
All nine ships in the Royal Caribbean fleet have conference centers or conference rooms, and the company has made a major commitment to that market. Just six years ago, only three Royal Caribbean employees sold conventions; today 21 do.
Royal Caribbean is not alone in appreciating the conference market. The $125 million Radisson Diamond, a twin-hulled luxury vessel that debuts in May, already has so many conferences and charters scheduled that to accommodate them it revised several sailing dates that were to be reserved for individual travelers.
The Diamond will feature two conference rooms, a full-sized auditorium with stage, shipboard TV studio for long-distance video conferencing, closed-circuit television, direct-dial phones and a satellite communications system.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anna Clepper teaches New York Transit Authority employees at Chase Manhattan Bank's conference center (Jim Estrin for The New York Times); The Monarch of the Seas has a conference center for 80 people.
 
Graphs track number of delegates to U.S. meetings or conventions each year, 1980-84 and 1986-90; number of U.S. meetings or conventions each year, 1980-84 and 1986-90; total U.S. meeting expenditures, 1980-84 and 1986-90 (Source: International Association of Convention and Visitor Bureaus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (83%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (83%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CONVENTION AND VISITOR BUREAUS RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (83%); ITT SHERATON CORP (60%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); CONFERENCE CENTERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CONVENTION AND VISITOR BUREAUS CONFERENCE CENTERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; INDUSTRY PROFILES CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (92%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (89%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); TRADE SHOWS (73%); CRUISES (70%); CATERING SERVICES (70%); AIRLINES (70%); DESERT STORM (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); MARINE VESSELS (65%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN CONFERENCE CENTER (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



315 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 52; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: CAMPUS LIFE: Cornell;
Athletes Opposing Decision to Cancel At Least 4 Sports

DATELINE: ITHACA, N.Y.

 BODY:
Student athletes and coaches at Cornell University say they are angry and frustrated over $600,000 in budget cuts announced by the athletics department last week. Department officials said the cuts would eliminate four intercollegiate sports, force four additional programs to rely entirely on their own fund-raising and require the department to reduce administrative expenses.
"Right now there's a feeling of hopelessness that no matter what you do, it won't work," said Michele Carey, a sophomore on the women's gymnastic team from Marblehead, Mass., who is majoring in English. 
 While the men's and women's gymnastics and fencing teams will cease to exist at the end of the 1992-93 school year, four other programs -- nationally ranked men's and women's equestrian polo; men's lightweight football and men's squash -- will lose their financing this summer, said Laing E. Kennedy, the university's athletics director. Thirty-one men's and women's intercollegiate varsity sports will remain.
More than 50 students will lose their teams and 4 coaches will lose their jobs by 1993 if they cannot be reassigned, the athletics department said.
Athletes and coaches on the teams said they would do whatever they could to keep their programs alive.
 
Fencing's 'Long Tradition'
 Philip T. Rach, the men's gymnastics coach, said he would urge the athletics department to give his team a small part of the gym or allow it to practice at an off-campus site, and to let the team raise its expense money rather than abolish the sport altogether.
Peggy Walbridge, a 1974 Cornell graduate who was the first woman inducted to the university's Athletic Hall of Fame for her success as captain of the women's fencing team, said, "Cornell has a long tradition in men's, and was one of the founders in women's, fencing." Ms. Walbridge, who is the associate director of admissions at Cornell's College of Arts and Sciences, added, "We are trying to contact the wider fencing community to bring pressure on the athletics department."
The reductions that directly affect the teams, which the administration said would save more than $260,000 annually, would be coupled with a $320,000 reduction in administrative costs and physical-education expenses. Cornell also announced plans to increase revenues by $200,000, partly through ticket sales and fees paid, for example, by those who use the campus golf course and ice rink.
The cuts come in the first phase of the athletic department's long-term planning, called Vision 2000, which Mr. Kennedy said had spent more than $50,000 on focus groups, interviews with members of the athletic groups and questionnaires distributed to 6,000 students and alumni.
 
Least Potential for Success
 "Our objective in expense reduction was to affect the fewest possible students, because they represent our highest priority," Mr. Kennedy said. He said that the Cornell Department of Athletics had sought to cut programs that had the fewest participants or the 'least potential' for success against competitors. 'Wins and losses are not everything, but we're not cutting any powerhouses,' he said.
Although the athletics department has spent more than a year collecting data and meeting with the Vision 2000 task force to plan the reductions, those directly affected by the cuts said they had no warning that their athletic careers at Cornell were coming to a close.
"We kind of feel like we're banging our heads against a wall," said Alan Simon, the captain of the men's fencing team and a senior majoring in economics from Rochester.
But the university defended its action and the way it had determined how to trim the $9.4 million budget of the athletics department, which is $450,000 in debt.
Cornell's president, Frank H. T. Rhodes, said the university would gain "a slightly smaller but better athletic department."
"I feel sorry to cut anything on campus," Dr. Rhodes said in an interview last week, "but the athletic department has to make the same kinds of economies that face every part of the campus here." Over the last two years, Cornell's private colleges have cut $10 million from their budgets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (74%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING SPORTS (90%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); GYMNASTICS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (79%); STUDENT EXPENSES (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); SQUASH (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); ATHLETES (77%); WOMEN (76%); TICKET SALES (61%); FOCUS GROUPS (60%); LAYOFFS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



316 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 16; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: GARDENING;
Greens to Melons, Potatoes to Tomatoes

BYLINE: By JOAN LEE FAUST

 BODY:
VEGETABLE garden planning is at its height. Those who have grown their own for years know what does well. Most important, they know what the family likes or what should be grown in quantity for preserving.
Some gardeners have huge plots and grow just about everything. Others have just enough room for a few vegetables. They delight in homegrown tomatoes or tossing a salad with greens just picked. 
Neophytes may think they have to grow practically every vegetable in the seed catalogue. After all, the illustrated planting plans include space for just about everything that can be grown from seed. Often the commitment is excessive.
Many vegetables can be purchased at local markets, and quite often the quality far exceeds the successes or failures at home. But in these days of economic frugality, some sort of realistic planning must be done. Some vegetables are tricky to grow and best left to the farmers; others are easy crops and fun to grow.
Much depends on the soil conditions and preparation of the vegetable plot. The challenge is a major one, which many thrill to take on. In any case, vegetables require sun, at least four to six hours daily, plus good fertile soil that is well endowed with organic matter and some sort of water supply if there is a drought.
One vegetable that is truly tricky to grow is cauliflower. It requires a cool climate and excellent soil, and it must be blanched to keep the curd white. Another tricky one is celery, which needs the same conditions to maintain its usual crispness. And because it is mostly water, celery needs truly moist soil.
Some vegetables, like pumpkins and watermelons, utilize a lot of space. These are often grown in fields where the vines can ramble. In a home vegetable plot, where space is confined, these crops are often bypassed. Besides, pumpkin shopping is one of the delights for children who like to pick out the best. Similar conditions are true of watermelons, which are a must for those summer picnics.
Potatoes are not as aggressive surface-space users, but the plants do occupy the rows all summer long. Row hilling is vital to keep the potatoes from turning green from the sun.
All these crops could be grown at home, but they are best left to the experts or those who truly enjoy the challenge of growing them. Besides, all these crops are readily available at produce markets in quantity and quality.
At the other end of the spectrum are the easy-to-grow vegetables, the ones that taste best fresh picked for the table. Possibly the favorite grow-at-home vegetable is the tomato. If there is space for only a few plants, then the tomato wins. As long as there are tomato plants in the garden, then plan to grow a few others: salad crops, especially the leaf lettuces, escarole, arugula, mache and even Chinese cabbage. These vegetables are superb for summertime salads, and the ingredients are best when they are fresh from the garden.
Those who want garden-fresh vegetables should save some space for peas. Like sweet corn, this is one vegetable that deteriorates rapidly as soon as it is picked. Now that edible-pod peas have become so popular, the vines are almost a must to include. But remember that peas and spinach are cool-weather crops and should be planted early. March is not too soon, if the ground is open and can be worked.
As long as there is space for a vine or two, plan to have a few cucumber plants. For an early crop, the seed can be started indoors in March and the pots set out in mild weather at two-foot spacing. A few rows of scallions and maybe a row or two of radish could be tucked in at the base of these vines. These are fast-growing and appealing to children, because they can see results quickly.
The tomatoes cannot be planted outdoors until the soil is truly warm, so make space for beans, which will also need warm soil. Beans are very easy to grow, and if seed is planted every two weeks, the crop will continue through most of the summer.
In between are a host of other crops. One of the great summer delights is sweet corn, but the plants are huge and heavy feeders. They take a good supply of nutrients from the soil. Excellent sweet corn is readily available at farm stands.
Other crops that may or may not be part of the home plot are squash, another plant that takes up space, and cantaloupe. Members of the onion family have also been left in between crops like garlic, leeks and onions. And if the soil is heavy, rocky and difficult to work, then leave the root crops -- carrots, turnips and parsnips -- to those who can grow them best.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: GARDENS AND GARDENING FRUITS & VEGETABLES (91%); GARDENING (90%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (74%); DROUGHT (73%); 

PERSON: FAUST, JOAN LEE

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



317 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 63; Column 2; Society Desk

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: Ms. Schattinger, Student, to Wed

 BODY:
Mr. and Mrs. James H. Schattinger of Shaker Heights, Ohio, have announced the engagement of their daughter, Elisabeth Myers Schattinger, to Alistair Buchan, a son of Mr. and Mrs. Andrew S. Buchan of Edinburgh. A September wedding is planned.
Ms. Schattinger, 26 years old, graduated cum laude from Wellesley College and is pursuing an M.B.A. at Dartmouth College. Her father is president of the Pioneer Manufacturing Company, a manufacturer of products for industrial maintenance, in Cleveland. Her mother, Joan Schattinger, is a freelance writer and has written books on the the history of Cleveland. 
 Mr. Buchan, 28, is a senior associate for Barclays Bank PLC in New York. He graduated from the University of Edinburgh, form which he also received a master's degree in economics. His father, who is retired, was the general manager of the Royal Bank of Scotland in Edinburgh.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (84%); RBS (LSE) (84%); RBS (AMS) (84%); BCS (NYSE) (71%); BARC (LSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS332312 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3441 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL (72%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (84%); PIONEER MFG CO INC (72%); BARCLAYS PLC (71%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (87%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (68%); WRITERS (68%); 

PERSON: SCHATTINGER, ELISABETH MYERS; BUCHAN, ALISTAIR JAMES H SCHATTINGER (85%); ANDREW S BUCHAN (80%); JOAN SCHATTINGER (55%); ALISTAIR BUCHAN (55%); ELISABETH MYERS SCHATTINGER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



318 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 8; Page 14; Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT CARS;
A New Old Spider From Alfa Romeo

BYLINE: By Marshall Schuon

 BODY:
ONE of the nice things about driving lots of cars is that you can get into any vehicle and pretty much know where everything is. Sort of like being a garage attendant.
It doesn't always happen though, and when it doesn't, it is usually because the car is Italian. I was thinking that as I tried to find my way through New York's potholes, wondering also how I was going to drive the 45 miles home without dash lights. 
 The car was a new '92 Alfa Romeo Spider Veloce, a sleek little roadster, bright red, with tan leather bucket seats and a black instrument panel. At that point, of course, the colors didn't matter. It was dead of night and the interior was black from roof to floor.
I felt around, pushed this, twisted that. Finally, I pulled to the curb and searched with a cigarette lighter. Nothing. So I drove home, unable to see the speedometer, following other cars that looked as if they might be traveling somewhere near the speed limit.
It was another instance of what I learned a long time ago, a basic truth about Italian cars. You hate them until you get used to them, and then you say, "Gee, this isn't so bad." In that respect, they are much like jogging or learning to drink scotch, and some things just don't change.
In the Alfa's case, there is not much reason to think they would. The company, owned by Fiat and operating here in a joint venture with Chrysler, has been making the Spider without major renovation since 1966. And while the 26-year lifespan is not a record, it certainly makes the car a contender.
The first Spider carried a carbureted engine, and that lasted for three years, when the big change was fuel injection. Then, in 1971, the long, smooth tail was bobbed, creating a slightly different look.
In 1975, big bumpers were added, and the car went along for 10 years more without change. In '85, Alfa decided enough was enough and, voila, there were more new bumpers, along with a black spoiler. Which brings us to the current Spider, which was "new" for '91.
With this facelift, the roadster now has wider taillamps, a slight flare at the trailing edge of the trunk, a new nose, body-colored bumpers, 15-inch molded wheels, a new interior, and an air bag for the driver. It also has four-wheel power-disk brakes, power steering and a theft-proof radio that won't work without the proper code if it is removed from the car.
But this is still a very old automobile, and it feels that way, both in its controls and in the way it handles. Alfa fudges slightly, but it acknowledges the Spider's length of tooth by describing it as "the last of the great, traditional, open sports cars." And, indeed, it is that, with all the good and bad that the phrase implies.
There are two models, plain Spider and Spider Veloce, and prices range from $21,264 to $24,309, plus options. The tester was of the more expensive persuasion, with full leather seats and suede on the doors. And the doors, as much as anything else, reminded one of how old this car is.
First, the car has no lock-knobs. Instead, you push forward on the door handles as of yore. And then, wonder of wonders, there are real working vent windows! Some of the old stuff isn't so bad.
The glove box is small, but it houses a unique map light on a spring cord. Further oddities include four buttons for the two power windows (two for up and two for down), and manually operated vents, seven of them sprinkled hither and yon, for the air conditioning.
A three-speed automatic transmission is available, but a five-speed stick is standard, and the lever protrudes straight out from the center of the dash. Under it, in the console between the buckets, are various controls and a tiny analog clock, about an inch and a quarter in diameter, with all 60 seconds marked on it. Needless to say, you can't read it.
The four-spoked wheel is leather wrapped but unpadded. It has the typical Italian rake and can't be adjusted, but it is one of those things that you get used to -- and then find endearing. Another less-pleasant weirdness is the shallow trunk, which has no rear lock or latch. It opens with a remote release in the driver's doorjamb, and when you've discovered that, you also discover that 10.3 cubic feet really isn't much space at all.
At the other end, the hood hinges at the front and opens from the cowl below the windshield. Under it is a 2-liter aluminum four that puts out 120 horsepower and 121 foot-pounds of torque. There are twin overhead cams, and the compression ratio is 9-to-1, which means the Spider favors premium fuel.
Still, a fill-up doesn't cost that much, since the tank holds only a tad over 12 gallons, and fuel economy can be considered good, with a rating of 22 miles per gallon, city, and 30, highway.
One reason for that is the light weight of the car's unit-body. The whole package weighs only 2,660 pounds, and that translates into quick acceleration (albeit handicapped by the odd horizontal shifter) and into a cruising speed of 70-plus m.p.h.
Unfortunately, it also translates into a flexible body that bounces, jiggles and lurches on uneven surfaces. Initially, that makes the car less than fun to drive, and it is perhaps the single biggest factor that gives away the Spider's age. But, once again, you do get used to it.
In fact, this is a car that has had relatively steady sales, and Craig Morningstar, an Alfa spokesman, said the annual number generally hovers around 2,000, most of them in the Florida, California and other sunny climes.
As for a replacement, Morningstar said a totally new Spider will be along in late 1993. "If you saw it today," he said, "you'd think it was a concept car. It's very slick."
Considering his position, the hyperbole is understandable, but the car, like those past and present, will be a Pininfarina design, which speaks well for the future. What's certain is that it will be Italian and . . . well, different.
Meanwhile, and in case anybody asks, a Spider's dash lights are controlled by a thumb wheel underneath the instrument panel.

GRAPHIC: Photo: For 1992, there are two models, the plain spider, and the more expensice Veloce. Each carries a 120-horsepower engine. (Alfa Romeo Distributors of North America)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); NORTH AMERICA (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: ALFA ROMEO CO

ORGANIZATION: ALFA ROMEO CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NORTH AMERICA (57%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS SPORTS CARS (89%); SPEED LIMITS (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); 

PERSON: SCHUON, MARSHALL

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



319 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 11; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Men's Movement: Win or Lose?

 BODY:
This most recent discussion of the "emerging men's movement" (Jan. 19) did a fine job of capturing the features of the movement that give me concern.
Why must this activity always be characterized as a win-lose situation for men and women? Most of the recent coverage describes the women's movement as gaining power at the expense of men. Perhaps it is a power that resides within individuals regardless of sex. 
 The type of energy and feeling of well-being experienced by being more in touch with yourself, your kids and the people you work with can increase total energy; it does not necessarily have to subtract from someone else's power and energy. In fact, in my experience, it is when you let go of power and control over others that the sense of well-being begins and increased personal influence with others rises. I believe this phenomenon to be human, not male or female.
I must quickly add some reality to my discussion: make no mistake, there is a women's movement and an emerging men's reaction to it, but the movements are grounded in politics and economics, not the essences of masculinity or femininity. Women are fighting for control of their bodies, an ability to work productively in an environment free of sexual harassment and a political-social system that responds to their needs. But this is no different from any other interest group like unions, the aged and farmers.
What is different is the reaction of men. Face it, we have been dominators, and what we are reacting to is a threat to that domination. I submit that this reaction, however frightening, is also human and should be addressed as a human issue, not a male vs. female issue.
We should be human enough to face these issues head on for what they are, issues of political, economic and individual equality. If we cannot face them and establish a legitimate dialogue with the women's movement, I predict a male siege mentality will be generated, leading to increased frustration in our interpersonal relationships with those we care for and work with.
We men would be better served to really listen, exchange feedback and modify behavior with the ones we love than to be pounding our chests and crawling around on all fours for a weekend in a spurious attempt to get in touch with our primeval roots.
 
STEPHEN C. REXFORD
Westport

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: MEN MEN (91%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (72%); 

PERSON: REXFORD, STEPHEN C STEPHEN C REXFORD WESTPORT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



320 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: Continued U.S. Embargo Harms Cuba and Ourselves as Well

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The Jan. 25 meeting on Cuba at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in New York City (news article, Jan. 26) focuses a light on one of the blind spots of American foreign policy -- the economic embargo of Cuba. Not only are all items of trade still prohibited, but so is travel to Cuba by United States tourists and even sending medical supplies and other humanitarian aid (with a few exceptions). 
 During the cold war this policy did not make sense. Today, after the cold war's end and the dissolution of the Soviet Union, it is an anachronism. What threat does Cuba offer the United States? On the contrary, our present policy of noncommunication is a threat to the Cuban people, particularly to the Cuban children, toward whom we have no hostility.
Now that Soviet support has been withdrawn, the Cuban people are in a desperate situation. Whether our Government likes President Fidel Castro or not, our policy harms not only Cuba, but also the United States. Resumption of trade with Cuba would no doubt be of commercial benefit to us, not to speak of the desire of United States tourists to visit Cuba and enjoy its weather and facilities.
If there are complaints by some about Cuba's human rights policies, resumption of relations would go a long way to correct that situation by direct diplomatic approaches.
Robert S. McNamara, former Secretary of Defense, has called for a normalization of relations between our countries. His comments followed the final meeting, in Havana, of an American-Russian-Cuban conference series on the Cuban missile crisis of 1962, when he was President Kennedy's defense chief. "If I had been a Cuban or Soviet official, I believe I would have shared the judgment," he told reporters in Washington on returning, "that a U.S. invasion was probable" (news article, Jan. 15).
On United States-Cuban relations today, he is quoted by the Cuba Policy Project of the Nitze School at Johns Hopkins University as saying, "we must get beyond the fear and hostility that has shaped our relations for the past 30 years."
 
ROBERT L. BOEHM
New York, Jan. 27, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



321 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: On Viewing Labor as an Asset, Not an Expense

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I was disturbed to hear today of yet another major American company announcing large layoffs, presumably, like so many others, to improve productivity and competitiveness in the new, global economy. The new, lean management style for the 1990's is beginning to sound more and more like good old American management methods -- from the 1890's. 
 As so often in the past, American business leaders seem to be learning the wrong lessons. We hear that job security is an outmoded value, which doesn't have a place in the modern world. Is that the lesson we learned from the Japanese? We are asked to accept reductions in benefits as necessary to improve productivity. Do the Germans have inferior employee benefits? Productivity is the key to our future economic well-being, but are we learning to be productive?
No manager would throw cash out in the street; he or she would evaluate the options and use that cash for maximum return. Cash, after all, is an asset. The same managers are blind to the asset value of skilled labor. We need to use our labor force productively, not squander it.
In our rush to improve labor productivity, we forget that the productivity equation has a numerator, output, as well as the denominator of labor cost. Productivity improvements can (and should) come through increasing output. The lesson of our "efficient" foreign competitors is that the best way to do so is by putting the proper tools in the hands of a well-trained work force, whose members are secure in knowing their jobs will not be arbitrarily eliminated, their families' health will be protected through medical benefits and they will share in the productivity gains they produce.
Perhaps if more American managers saw their labor force as an asset, rather than an expense, we would begin to see more investment and innovation being applied to its use. Alternatively, we could speed up the production line and cut out the lunch break.
 
JEFFREY E. MATCHEN
New York, Jan. 23, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (57%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (57%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR EMPLOYMENT (91%); PRODUCTIVITY (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



322 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: A Trap for Candidates;
When 'the War' Means Vietnam, Politics Gets Muddy

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H.

 BODY:
For political longevity, it is hard to beat the generation that fought in World War II. For the last 40 years, the nation's chief executives have been products of this era, and seven of the last eight Presidents served in the armed forces during what was, in the title of the Studs Terkel book, "The Good War."
Eventually, though, even the most enduring generation must yield to its successor, and as voters prepare to cast the first ballots in the 1992 Presidential election, it is clear that this transition is haltingly getting under way. On the Republican side, President Bush of course has the classic military resume of a Navy pilot who was shot down over the Pacific. But none of the five leading candidates for the Democratic nomination served in World War II. And one of them, Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, is the first major Presidential candidate who was a hero of the not-so-good war in Vietnam. 
 Tomorrow, the Presidential election season formally begins when voters in Iowa hold their caucuses, and Iowa Senator Tom Harkin is expected to win handily. The real contest will begin in New Hampshire on Feb. 18 with the nation's first primary. It is still too early to tell how the generational shift will play out in the coming election, but recent events suggest that the process could be painful.
For the Republicans, this is probably all for the best. In addition to possessing a traditional political profile, Mr. Bush enjoys all the advantages of incumbency, including a fully-researched biography. Having survived eight years of scrutiny as Vice President and three as President, Mr. Bush seems unlikely to be waylaid by any newly discovered unpleasantries from his past.
But for the Democrats, the uneasiness of the transition is emerging as a major obstacle. In recent weeks, the primary campaign has been dominated not by the nation's overriding concern -- the economy -- but by something far more marginal, the private life of Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton. Last week, after getting sideswiped by charges of marital infidelity, Mr. Clinton seemed to have gotten his campaign back on track, only to find himself slammed by allegations that he tried to avoid the draft during the Vietnam War.
With the debate over Governor Clinton's draft status, the Presidential campaign seems to have run headlong into a booby trap that was set 25 years ago. As the generation that came of age in the 1960's began to run for high political office, it was probably inevitable that someone would stumble into the snare; indeed, Vice President Dan Quayle almost did so four years ago, when charges surfaced that he had avoided being sent to Vietnam by using family connections to join the National Guard. The question that remains is: just how dangerous is this trap?
Just as some of the issues raised by Vietnam remain unresolved, the nation also seems divided about what constitutes an acceptable biography for a politician who reached draft age while the war was escalating and also growing more unpopular each year. With Governor Clinton, the question is whether he misled his local draft board to avoid conscription before 1969, the year the lottery system was implemented and he drew a high enough number to stay out of uniform. An official of his local draft board has said that he did mislead them; Mr. Clinton insists that he did not.
Michael Delli Carpini, a Barnard political science professor who has studied the generation that grew up in the 60's, says he is suprised how sensitive the issue remains.
"I would have expected that one of the changes you would have seen over the years is that by now we would have a different set of standards for what constitutes a legitimate experience for a politician," he said. "And one of the standards you would think would no longer be applied would be service to the military. But it seems the same basic standards are still being used, which really strikes me as ironic, given the way the Vietnam War is remembered."
What the debate suggests, Professor Delli Carpini said, "is that we as a country have not really come to grips with how we feel about people who did not support the war. The price we pay as a nation is that when something brings it up, we don't really have a set of rules or even a language to evaluate it."
In Mr. Clinton's case, questions about how he avoided military service are complicated by questions of how he represented himself. Thus, the full depth of the nation's discomfort is probably reflected better in the experience of Senator Kerrey.
At the start of the campaign season, many Democrats hoped that Mr. Kerrey would lead the party through the treacherous generational transition; a Medal of Honor winner who lost part of a leg in Vietnam and later turned against the war, the Senator seemed to successfully combine two potentially disparate elements of his generation -- patriotism and a willingness to question authority. Even as he lags in the polls, many Democratic leaders maintain that Mr. Kerrey's service in Vietnam is an unalloyed plus for him, and in recent days the Senator has tried to prolong discussion of Mr. Clinton's difficulties. But Mr. Kerrey has also said that at times, "being a Vietnam veteran is more of a liability than an asset." A close adviser said the Senator believes his service record can work against him by reminding voters of unresolved issues that they would prefer to forget. "It's still too painful," the adviser said.
For decades, military service has been viewed almost as a prerequisite for the Presidency. The man with his finger on the button, the thinking seemed to go, should at least have demonstrated an ability to get through boot camp. Now that the cold war is over, voters may no longer see military experience as so relevant.
Some analysts say that Mr. Clinton and the other Democratic candidates, former Senator Paul Tsongas and former Gov. Jerry Brown, who never served in the military, and Mr. Harkin, who was a non-combat pilot in the Navy, are fortunate to be running for President at a time when the nation is most concerned about domestic issues. "As long as domestic issues dominate," Professor Delli Carpini said, military service "will not be as important."
But it remains to be seen how the electorate will treat the men who came of age during the Vietnam War. Some analysts worry that the nation's uneasiness with the issues of the 60's will, if unaddressed, end up disqualifying an entire age group from high public office. Todd Gitlin, a professor at Berkeley who has written a book about the decade, notes that drug use and draft resistance were the norm of the day. He argues that applying outdated standards to a new generation of public figures is like an old-style Kremlin purge.
"This purification crusade is generationally dangerous," he said. "What you are really talking about is disenfranchising an entire generation."

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (91%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (91%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR; ELECTION ISSUES; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (MILITARY); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); GOVERNORS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); KERREY, BOB (SEN); KOLBERT, ELIZABETH BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



323 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Democracy Isn't Always Enough to Repel Attempted Coups

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY

 BODY:
For days after President Carlos Andres Perez of Venezuela took to the airwaves to declare the failure of last week's military putsch against him, his image flickered on television screens across Latin America. Shaken by what he described as a ruthless attempt on his life, Mr. Perez wondered aloud what the plotters could have hoped to gain. "We cannot imagine how these madmen could be full of such anachronism, such ignorance, or such hate or ambition," he said, "for them not to realize that the time of the coup d'etat is over in Latin America."
Given the months of coup rumors that preceded the first attacks late Monday night, Mr. Perez could not have been entirely surprised. But there were reasons for his disbelief. For 34 years, Venezuela has been a democratic exception in South America, passing from one elected government to another. Its economy grew a stunning 9.2 percent last year, winning praise from investors and financiers at home and abroad. Just one day before the revolt, which left as many as 78 dead, Mr. Perez gushed of his success at a meeting of business leaders in Davos, Switzerland. "The spirit of the reforms is no longer a subject of controversy," he said.
 
Grudging Support
 As much as Venezuela's neighbors might share Mr. Perez's shock, they could hardly help but see last week's bloodshed as a reminder of the limits to Latin America's incipient recovery from a decade of economic crisis. However retrograde their methods, the military rebels in Venezuela were not so out of touch with the national mood. For months, as new investment poured into the country, Venezuelans angrily protested rising prices, falling wages, shoddy public services and reported Government corruption; in a poll the week before the coup, 81 percent voiced little or no confidence in the president. And if many countrymen came almost grudgingly to Mr. Perez's defense, their ambivalence seemed only to underscore how in Venezuela, as elsewhere in the region, fiscal austerity, debt restructuring and free-market reforms have helped yield new wealth without necessarily sharing it more equitably. 
 On one level, Mr. Perez was right when he spoke in Switzerland. After years of sharp debate, the same broad lines of economic policy have been adopted by nearly all the big Latin debtor nations. Like the ruling party of Mexico, Mr. Perez has sold off or shut down government enterprises that he took over in an earlier, socialistic incarnation, managing to balance his budget and stockpile reserves in the process. Both the liberal Chileans who struggled to oust the dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet and the Argentine Peronists, who once prided themselves on their social spending, have held to tight monetary policies and fiscal austerity. Inflation has come under greater control across the region, and after three years of virtual stagnation, Latin economies grew an average of more than 2 percent last year, according to United Nations statistics.
 
A Very Slow Trickle
 It is too soon to tell whether such models of development will eventually contribute to political stability in Latin America by spreading the wealth and power once concentrated by the state and its partners. In some cases, an end of big subsidies and special privileges has already undone the influence of some old government allies. But more prominent in the regions' financial reports and glossy magazines have been new images of old-money tycoons buying back businesses that governments took away from them years before, or of new-money entrepreneurs and the speculative killings they have made in real estate and stocks. "According to prevailing theories," the Argentine political scientist Guillermo O'Donnell noted last week, "the only way the poor are going to do better is if the rich get richer first."
So far the new wealth has done relatively little trickling down. In Uruguay and Chile, per capita social spending remains well below the levels of 10 years ago. In Colombia, Uruguay and Paraguay, urban unemployment remains high or continues to rise. Last year, Brazil registered inflation of about 450 percent. In Peru, though inflation fell steeply last year, real minimum wages dropped to 16.8 percent of their level in 1980. Amid the gleaming new businesses, foreign stock issues and pronouncements of investor confidence, other trends established by the debt crisis of the 1980's have continued.
Mexico has been something of an exception, though economists worry that its booming stock market and $11 billion current-account deficit, the broadest measure of trade, have been sustained by speculative and short-term investment. Even as real minimum wages fell for the 10th consecutive year and unemployment and inflation emerged in polls as Mexicans' two primary concerns, the Government regained support with an innovative $2 billion program of public works aimed especially at areas of opposition strength. By contrast, though only 57 percent of Venezuelans are reported able to afford more than one meal a day and minimum wages fell last year to 47 percent of their value in 1980, Mr. Perez has been exceptionally tight with Government money.
Since Tocqueville, political theorists have seen in such moments of rising expectations unevenly fulfilled the raw stuff of revolt. Added to those pressures in many Latin countries, including Venezuela, are once-privileged military officers who find themselves among the public servants hardest hit by government austerity. Considering the somewhat isolated economic success of Chile under Pinochet and Mexico under the control of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, which has ruled for 62 years, some observers question whether severe austerity and dramatic economic restructuring are even possible in a fully democratic country.
Last week, one might have wondered whether Venezuela, where democracy has at times seemed almost taken for granted, was oddly more at risk than some of its neighbors. Argentina, Peru and Brazil have also grappled with severe economic adjustment, restless military officers and charges of blatant government corruption that seemed at times about to ignite the mix. The difference, perhaps, has been the traumatic and relatively recent experience of military rule in those countries. When soldiers have moved to intervene, people's dissatisfaction with the civilians in power has generally turned out to be not so great after all.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Loyalist Venezuelan soldiers put down a coup attempt last week that followed protests over economic disparities. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Mexico, Central and Latin America.
 
Table: "Measuring the major players," lists key economic indicators, including population, estimated gross domestic product, estimated per captia gross domestic product, foriegn debt and debt service, on the largest, and most volatile, economies in the region (Source: Inter-American Development Bank)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (59%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (59%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LATIN AMERICA; VENEZUELA VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT COUPS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); BUDGETS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); POLITICS (73%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); DEBTOR NATIONS (69%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); MONETARY POLICY (60%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



324 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Islamic Militance Along Russia's Rim Is Less Than a Sure Bet

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
Across the centuries of Russia's colonial dealings with Central Asia, there has never been a lack of alarm that somehow an "Islamic crescent" counterforce would coalesce, with all the intimations of Muslim fervor that can so easily seize the xenophobic imagination of outside observers.
The interesting thing in the latest version of that alarm is that it comes from the Bush Administration, not the Yeltsin Government here, and it is focused mainly on Washington's long-running preoccupation with Iran rather than on the plethora of different ethnic, religious and political subtleties that are now becoming apparent among the the Central Asian republics as they try to resurrect themselves from the ashes of Communism. 
 Life on the ground in the region is an ever more complicated mix of hopes and fears lately, but with ties to outside nations clearly being sought for economic deliverance rather than as a religious and cultural denominator -- a denominator that, in the process, might undermine the remnants of the Communist Party machines attempting to survive in the republics by other names, not to mention the region's fledgling democratic insurgencies.
Accordingly, a visitor to the region lately hears South Korea and Turkey invoked as far more promising go-go prospects than Iran, with its fundamentalist call to Allah.
And in counterbalance to the traditional complaints about the foreign domination by Russia, some leaders in the Asian republics have begun pleading with the better educated non-native offspring of colonialism not to flee all the nascent nationalisms, as many have been doing, but to stay as part of a badly needed leadership cadre for the future.
Local politicians consider Iran as putting down a few long-range bets at best -- in Tajikistan and Turkmenistan, perhaps, if the shattered economic life in the region should suffer years of further deterioration.
But even in Tajikistan, the Islamic-edged opposition movement that has arisen to join in the challenge to the entrenched party apparatus made a point in anti-Government demonstrations last fall in Dushanbe to stress an ecumenical spirit that embraces insurgent democrats and secular nationalists. And Turkmenistan, with its more developed petroleum industry, has feelers out for the best deal from either Iran or Turkey, or both.
The initial effect of tentative Iranian overtures in the region seems to be in highlighting the basic division within Islam among the republics, with Saudi Arabia showing interest in having some of its Sunni Muslim proselytizers on the ground to counter Iran's rival Shiite Muslims.
In Uzbekistan, where a hard-line Communist bloc retains power, the issue of Islam is framed not in terms of Iranian fundamentalism but of a rivalry within the clergy over supporting the Government or seeking greater religious and political freedom.
Azerbaijan remains preoccupied with its territorial vendetta with Christian Armenia, a struggle that threatens to isolate Azerbaijan from whatever common promise of economic progress the other Asian republics might manage to encourage in their current talk of free-market changes.
"We are waging a struggle against all kinds of extremism," says President Askar A. Akayev of Kyrgyzstan, one of the favorites of the Bush Administration in openly denouncing Iranian fundamentalism. "We are closest to Turkey and want to stick with Turkey," he says, echoing a preference for Turkey's balancing of Islam with secular Western ties.
This is the preference, too, of reform elements in Kazakhstan, the giant bridge of a republic between Russia and the Asian states whose President, Nursultan A. Nazarbayev, fought to prevent a new variation of colonial isolation by demanding a founders' role for all of the Central Asian republics in the new Commonwealth of Independent States that had been started by the Slavic republics.
 
Interests Are Complex
 His strategy demonstrates the region's complex cross-hatchings of interests, for if Kazakhstan were to be fully isolated in independence its sizable northern Russian minority might begin seeking to break away and destabilize the Nazarbayev Government.
Within the Commonwealth, on the other hand, he bolsters his role in leading the keystone republic in influencing the Central Asian states with survival plans invoking secular, free-market faith and reliance on Korean advisers and entrepreneurs.
With so much flux and promise in a region poorly studied during the cold war, the Bush Administration is now hurriedly opening a new chain of embassies in the Central Asian republics. When Foreign Service professionals reconnoiter the region they are likely to be filing at least as much intelligence on such pervasive economic problems as the desperate water shortage and environmental devastation that were the legacy of Russian and Soviet imperialism as on Iran's hope for ideological inroads.
The central fact the Asian republics are facing is the loss of their considerable Kremlin budget, employment and consumer subsidies under the now defunct Soviet Union. In his ideological war on Czarist Russia, Lenin termed the region "the purest example of colonialism." But the Soviet regime, after subduing the region, only maintained the colonialism.
This is a fact only currently being underlined in the republics as they grope their way from Communism and search, in widely varying ways, for economic hope more than another ideological war.

GRAPHIC: Map of Central Asian Republics of Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Azerbaijan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AZERBAIJAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); TAJIKISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); TURKMENISTAN (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%); UZBEKISTAN (93%); KYRGYZSTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); ARMENIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; IRAN; KAZAKHSTAN; AZERBAIJAN; TURKMENISTAN (FORMERLY TURKMENIA); UZBEKISTAN; KYRGYZSTAN (FORMERLY KIRGHIZIA); TAJIKSTAN (FORMERLY TADZHIKISTAN); UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) AZERBAIJAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); TAJIKISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); TURKMENISTAN (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%); UZBEKISTAN (93%); KYRGYZSTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); ARMENIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ISLAM RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); FUNDAMENTALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



325 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Economic Myopia: Obvious Problem, Hidden Causes

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
Has America become a nation of short-hitters, of corporate managers who issue dividend checks at the expense of quality and innovation, of workers who live from lite beer to lite beer and entrust their retirement to the kindness of strangers at the Social Security Administration?
That is certainly how many Japanese see us. Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa's disparaging comments last week on the quality of American management and workers reflect deep frustrations in doing business with a country that seems to be burning the candle at both ends. And the criticism strikes a responsive chord among many Americans. 
 But the charge makes economists uneasy. For while most would be delighted if Detroit made better cars and Joe Sixpack put aside a few cases for a rainy day, it is not clear that Americans' short horizons are the result of impatience or profligacy. If Americans are indeed myopic, it may have more to do with the national institutions than with personal failings.
Consider the stereotypical American company that is losing the innovation race to Japanese rivals because it refuses to invest for the long haul. The managers' motive, apparently, is to please the stockholders (and boost their own pay) by diverting cash from hard research to plush dividends.
But that logic does not sit well with Michael Jensen, an economist at the Harvard Business School. The shortest route to the stockholders' hearts, he suggests, is through the market value of their shares. And nothing ought to raise share prices more speedily than a long-term investment with a potentially lucrative payoff. In fact, a strategy of draining the investment kitty to pad the dividend ought to be a sure ticket to shareholder wrath.
What, then, explains why Japanese companies apparently do invest more for the long haul? One possibility is that the cost of capital is lower in Japan.
 
Pricing Money
 Investing a dollar today to make, say, $4 a decade down the road will pay off if the money can be had for 10 percent annual interest. But any M.B.A. armed with a pocket calculator will confirm that this would be a poor investment if the interest hurdle were 15 percent. And there were indeed differences in capital costs between Japan and America during the 1980's: Burton Malkiel of Princeton University estimates that the cost gap averaged 2 to 3 percentage points.
Yet another explanation, explored by Robert Shiller of Yale University, is that managers are responding rationally to the seemingly irrational preferences of the people and institutions that buy stock. If investors are prepared to pay more for companies that declare ever-higher dividends at the expense of earnings, then managers will act accordingly.
But why would investors prefer to take the money and run? Jeremy Stein at M.I.T.'s Sloan School of Management suggests that the demand for short-term results may be the consequence of investor incredulity. Too many stockholders have learned that American corporations often try to bury this year's bad news in a blizzard of predictions about marvelous products that are just beyond the horizon.
Actually, there are yet more wheels within these wheels. Americans may not be investing too little for the long term, argues Alan Blinder of Princeton; the Japanese may be investing too much.
American companies are supposed to play by the rules according to Adam Smith, serving owners by maximizing profits. Japanese managers, insulated from stockholder pressures, apparently put a higher priority on the security and career advancement of their employees. And that might mean sacrificing profit (and living standards) in order to increase company size and total revenues.
Divining the meaning of changes in savings rates is an equally tricky business. From 1970 through 1984, total savings by families and corporations averaged 17.6 percent of GNP -- anemic by comparison to, say, Japan or Germany. Moreover, from 1985 through 1990 it averaged just 15.3 percent -- and the trajectory is plainly downward. "It's not too alarmist," concludes John Shoven of Stanford University, "to say there was a collapse of savings."
One explanation, suggested by William Baumol of New York University, is that low savings rates are caused by unexpectedly low growth rates. People may have grown accustomed to rising living standards in the palmy postwar decades. So when growth stalled in the mid-1970's, they were inclined to dig a little deeper to buy the VCR's and pilgrimages to Disney World that have become accepted perquisites of middle-class life.
A more reassuring explanation is linked to the problem of measurement. When you earn an extra $10,000 and spend an extra $1,000, measured savings rises by $9,000. But when the market value of your house rises by $10,000 and you celebrate by blowing just $1,000 on new clothes, measured saving falls by $1,000.
The collective value of Americans' houses -- not to mention the value of their stock portfolios -- rose by hundreds of billions of dollars in the 1980's. Thus, much of the apparent decline in personal savings may have been a response to a rise in personal wealth.
This does not necessarily mean that national savings is adequate -- that the voluntary savings by families and corporations is sufficient to sustain an optimum rate of economic growth. Certainly the current savings rate is not remotely adequate to match Japan's growth performance. But Benjamin Friedman of Harvard points out that it does shift the charge of myopia from breadwinners and business to government.
Washington could add to national savings by taxing more than it spends. In fact it has been running deficits over the decade that have reduced savings by 2 to 3 percentage points.
The Government's savings performance may be even worse than the numbers suggest. In the early 1980's Washington raised Social Security payroll taxes arguing that the increase was necessary to make the pension system actuarially sound. That may have reassured wage earners. But in the process, notes Mr. Shoven of Stanford University, it gave them less incentive to save on their own. And if President Bush has his way on taxes, argues Richard Thaler, an economist at Cornell, the Government is going to do even more to depress private savings.
 
Misdirection
 Recent research, he says, shows that people save a far higher proportion from large, unexpected gains in income than from small ones: An extra $100 a month is far more likely to be spent than an extra $1,200 delivered in December. Thus the President's plan to reduce withholding taxes by some $25 billion at the expense of $25 billion in refunds next year is a sure ticket to reducing savings.
Economic myopia, it seems, is a real problem. But it may have a lot less to do with a shortening of personal horizons than with the way markets and governments distort the view of collective needs.
"We've become a nation of phonies," concludes Mr. Friedman -- a nation of politicians with incentives to pay bills with borrowed money, and of corporations with incentives to pad the bottom line.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Slippery slopes," tracks savings rates in United States, calculated as a percentage of gross national product, for both private savings rates and savings rate adjusted for government spending, 1970-1990 (Source: President's Council of Economid Advisors); "The savings race," shows national savings rates in selected countries in 1998 as a percentage of gross domestic product. (Source: The Economist Book of Vital World Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (93%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (58%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (58%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CORPORATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SAVINGS; STOCKS AND BONDS SHAREHOLDERS (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); BONDS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (58%); 

PERSON: KIICHI MIYAZAWA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



326 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: THE REGION;
A New York Specialty: Politics of Resentment

BYLINE: By MARTIN GOTTLIEB

 BODY:
It's tough to sell mosaics in New York City, even ones that purport to be gorgeous.
As Mayor David N. Dinkins himself might attest, a steadfast appeal to people's better instincts makes for slow going at best. 
 But that is not the only approach to, and not the most direct and visceral means of, reaching a common ground among people of varied and often hostile backgrounds, particularly in the fractious mix of New York.
Running like a deep river through all these groups -- defined by ethnicity, religion, race, gender, sexual preference, physical impairment, economics and so on -- are deep hurts and resentments formed by historic oppression, discrimination, stereotyping and exclusion from power and from society at large.
Each group experience varies, of course, and it is the particulars -- from events as broad as slavery and the Holocaust to those as specific as trying to maneuver a wheelchair onto a sidewalk without a curb cut -- that make the pain authentic and heartfelt.
But while the particulars are different, the feelings and resentments they stir have much in common. They are the Krazy Glue behind New York's jumbled mosaic.
"Every person I know of in a minority group who has lived with a consciousness of his or her minority status has a feeling, something in the gut, that makes them distrust others' attitudes toward them -- particularly those of people in power," said Irving M. Levine, director emeritus of the Institute for American Pluralism at the American Jewish Committee.
 
'Acts Like One'
 Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who, like Mayor Dinkins, normally strikes a less embittered note, took hold of these sentiments in his recent bashing of Gov. Bill Clinton for remarks made in a taped conversation with Gennifer Flowers, who claimed to have been his lover.
In an exchange, Ms. Flowers said of Mr. Cuomo, "I wouldn't be surprised if he didn't have some Mafioso major connections."
Mr. Clinton replied with a laugh, "Well, he acts like one."
Mr. Cuomo, who has never been a friend of Mr. Clinton's, brought the roof down on him. As he said in one variation on his theme of the next couple of days: "If you say it this casually about Italian-Americans, what do you say about blacks, what do you say about Jews, what do you say about women, what do you say about the poor people, what do you say about all the other groups who traditionally . . . become the scapegoat?"
More than one national political commentator dismissed this with a groan, concluding that Mr. Cuomo had turned a private verbal gaffe into a call to arms, thereby thrusting himself again into the center of national politics without laying a Presidential candidacy on the line.
But locally, his outrage, however charged with national political freight, has long precedent and wide appeal, particularly because Mr. Cuomo used aggrieved feelings to link disparate groups rather than divide them.
Indeed, the city's most beloved political figure, Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia, was perhaps the consummate practitioner of what his biographer, Thomas Kessner, called a politics of "unrelieved resentment."
An Italian who grew up on Western Army posts, whose mother was Jewish, whose family was Protestant and whose stature was short and comical, he seemed perpetually on the fringe -- out West where many of his early friends were Indians, in the Italian-American community where his pedigree was decidedly odd and in politics, where he would pick verbal fights that often led to near physical ones when he heard the slur "wop."
"He had a true sense of marginality tied to a deep sense that he had a right to be an American," said Mr. Kessner, who teaches history at the City University of New York. "He was a parading personal drama of vulnerability."
 
Championing the Outsider
 There was the time, for example, when Mayor La Guardia's commissioner of water supply and electricity rejected a short man as an inspector in a tough neighborhood. "He won't do," the commissioner said. "He's too small." La Guardia leapt from his chair, Mr. Kessner recounted, and, jumping up and down, blurted, "WHAT'S THE MATTER WITH THE LITTLE GUY? WHAT'S THE MATTER WITH THE LITTLE GUY? WHAT'S THE MATTER WITH THE LITTLE GUY?"
Politically, this translated into fabled forays into New York's ethnic neighborhoods and to addresses from City Hall and in Congress in which he championed the interests of the city's minority groups less by touting their virtues than by attacking their enemies. In 1917, as a freshman in Congress, for example, he made his less than appreciated mark on the heavily Protestant institution by arguing that the literacy tests it instituted for immigrants discriminated against Catholics. The tests, he explained, used selections from the King James Bible.
For Jewish groups he targeted, among others, Henry Ford, whose anti-Semitism was only one of his prejudices. "Based on his ignorance of history, literature and religion," said Congressman La Guardia in an address to the House, "Henry Ford has done more, I will say, owing to bigoted hatred, to create strife and hatred in this country among the races than any man in the United States. And I will say that the wealth and ignorance of Henry Ford combined has made it possible for vicious men to carry on a nefarious warfare against the Jews, not only of America, but of the whole world."
There is, of course, a danger of demagoguery in the stirring of resentments -- something La Guardia was accused of coming close to and something that the rise of David Duke, for one, makes an all the more cautionary concern. The sense of exclusion "can unite people because it's part of the psychological aspect of being in a minority -- as a group member you can easily understand it," said Joseph Giordano, a consultant to the National Italian-American Foundation and a therapist who specializes in intergroup relations. "But it has the power to be destructive. It's powerful stuff."
Mr. Giordano believes that even if Mr. Cuomo should have dropped the issue more quickly than he did, he handled it positively by broadening it into a matter of concern for more than Italians.
Whether a political agenda lay behind Mr. Cuomo's comments is something Mr. Giordano wonders about as much as anyone else. After all, Mr. Cuomo is not the first Italian-American from New York to test the Presidential waters. Roughly 50 years ago, Fiorello La Guardia embarked on a national tour filled with rousing speeches that brought audiences to their feet. After one, according to Mr. Kessner, he turned to a handsome WASP aide and remarked, "If I had a face and a name like yours, they might think of me as a Presidential candidate."

GRAPHIC: Photos:Both Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia, left (The New York Times), and Gov. Mario M. Cuomo have used the politics of resentment as a way of unifying New Yorkers. (David Jennings for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); CHURCH & STATE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ETHNICITY (70%); DISABLED PERSONS (70%); RELIGION (70%); HOLOCAUST (68%); ORGANIZED CRIME (61%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: LA GUARDIA, FIORELLO H; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); GOTTLIEB, MARTIN BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



327 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-21
 
COVERT ACTION IN IRAQ DETAILED
 President Bush told Congress in the fall that covert action would be increased to try to incite the overthrow of Saddam Hussein, officials say. 1
 
HOME TO POVERTY AND VIOLENCE
The people of Casale live with the forces that sent Haitians fleeing: the violence and the frustration of trying to scrape a living from the dusty soil. 1
 
The first Haitian refugees are arriving in the New York area. 12
 
GAY PRIEST IS FOCUS OF TRIBUNAL
In the fifth tribunal of its kind this century in Canada, the Anglican Church clashing with a gay priest in a public confrontation. 3
 
FISCAL GENOCIDE PREDICTED
Vice President Aleksandr V. Rutskoi, warns that reforms are steering Russia toward "economic genocide." 10
 
MANCHURIA AS TARNISHED JEWEL
Manchuria, once rich and coveted, has lost its luster as economic modernization passes it by. 7
One of the most unusual cases since Tiananmen Square is going to trial. 6
 
CHARITY, BUT LITTLE FAITH
Preventing assistance to the former Soviet republics from being diverted is as important as delivering it. 10
American aid for the former Soviet union is delayed. 10
 
FEARS OF FATE OF IRAQI REFUGEES
Fears are growing for the safety of Iraqis who sought asylum in Saudi Arabia. 16
 
Embarrassment, anxiety and the opening of Argentina's Nazi files. 18
 
National 22-34

NEW IMMIGRATION CRACKDOWN
The Administration plans stepped-up measures to stem a growing flow of illegal aliens from Mexico that the 1986 immigration control law was supposed to halt. 1
 
ONE SILVER LINING
Although many companies have announced staggering employee cuts, economists say the layoffs alone do not threaten chances for an economic recovery this year. 1
 
VOICES OF AMERICA
As the voters prepare for their first round of choices in this election year, they are angry and depressed about the state of the nation. 1
 
Boyhood brawling and the Buchanan spin. 26
 
At least one Buchanan aide was born to be a conservative. 26
 
Back home in Iowa, Senator Harkin took to the stump. 26
 
An old comrade in arms urged support for Senator Kerrey. 28
 
H.M.O.'S AND THE I.R.S.
President Bush says he wants millions of Americans to join health maintenance organizations because they provide superior care at low cost. But the I.R.S. has indicated it will deny tax-exempt status to many such nonprofit groups on the ground that they provide no discernible benefit to the community. 30
 
HONEST, AND POLISHED, ABE
Two recently discovered legal documents from the 1850's serve to demolish any lingering myth that Lincoln was simply a hick lawyer who handled only small-town, morally correct cases for his friends and neighbors in Springfield, Ill. 22
 
The first week of the Noriega defense was anticlimactic. 22
 
Regional 36-48
 
A TOUGH COURT POST TO FILL
Judge Fritz W. Alexander's move to City Hall comes at a crucial time for the Court of Appeals, which experts say has been inching toward the right. Now Gov. Cuomo faces the delicate of political task of replacing the man considered a centrist swing vote on the bench. 36
 
TOURISM DROPS IN NEW YORK
Tourism in New York City staggered through "a pretty miserable year" in 1991, according to the New York Convention & Visitor's Bureau. Blame went to the poor economy, the gulf war and the high cost of staying in the city. But troubles in the $10 billion industry may run much deeper. 38
 
A LOVE STORY THAT ENDED IN DEATH
They were married two months after they met and last Tuesday celebrated 13 years of marriage and increasing involvement in the Hasidic community in Crown Heights. On Thursday, an intruder killed her, irreparably ruining the love story between Phyllis and Dennis Lapine. 42
 
Neediest Cases 43
 
Obituaries 46
 
Arts/Reviews 64-65
 
Campus Life 51-53
 
Life Style 54
 
Fashion 56-57
 
Pastimes 66-67
 
Weddings 60-64

GRAPHIC: Photo: Documents shed new light on Lincoln's legal prowess. 22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (55%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SILVER LINING SOFTWARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); GENOCIDE (75%); LITIGATION (75%); RELIGION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (71%); LAWYERS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (66%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (65%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (65%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); TOM HARKIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



328 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Bleak Outcrop of Fear Awaits Returning Haitians

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CASALE, Haiti, Feb. 6

 BODY:
This small hamlet of donkey- and hand-plowed farmland is only five miles from the nearest paved road, but it takes 40 minutes to cover the rugged terrain by car. It is the kind of world to which most of the forcibly returned Haitian boat people must return.
Here in Casale, a tiny pocket of green amid a rocky and forbidding badlands, residents are well acquainted with both poverty and political repression. 
 The poverty, easily seen in the people's gaunt, clinging features, makes almost everyone dream of life in a more generous world. For two years, it has scarcely rained, and once-fertile cropland is giving way, before the hardscrabble farmers' eyes, to cactus and dust.
But here the motivation driving people to leave on rickety boats for Florida seems more complex than economics alone.
 
Memories of Massacre
Poverty, cited by the Bush Administration as the main factor driving the Haitian exodus, is insufficient to qualify one for refugee status in the United States. The necessary criterion is an individual's well-founded, specific fear of political persecution.
The stipulation puts places like Casale at the crux of the debate over whether it is just for Washington to force Haitians to return, for while fear appears to be well founded here, it seems to be more a generalized dread gripping the population at large than a fear felt by specific citizens.
Twenty-three years ago, dozens, perhaps hundreds, of residents were massacred by the Tontons Macoute security police and the soldiers of the late dictator, Francois Duvalier, who sought to make an example of Casale as he waged war against insurrectionists.
Although residents claim things are calm here now, the shadow of their memories of the Casale massacre flickers in the caution they display in speaking with outsiders about conditions in their country.
Uncertain of a rare foreign visitor's true intentions, they would say little about one of the returning boat people who, in a dockside interview two days earlier, had spoken of his political activities and, after much nervous hesitation, given a reporter his address here and agreed to let him visit.
The refugee was forcibly returned last week from the tent camp at the American Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. He was one of hundreds of Haitians repatriated by the Coast Guard since the Supreme Court on Jan. 31 cleared the way for the returns to resume, even as a Federal appeals court continues to consider their legality.
 
U.S. Staff Cuts
 Upon the refugees' return to this village 35 miles north of Port-au-Prince, wary villagers quickly acknowledged knowing the man, a young schoolteacher, but carefully avoided saying whether he had returned or indicating exactly where he lived.
The characteristic mix of courtesyand evasion in uncertain times underscores the difficulty that the American Embassy and international monitors will have in determining their treatment. The embassy has reduced its staff to six workers, whose duties include monitoring the fate of the returnees, and experts from human rights groups usually arrive infrequently for short visits.
The villagers said that in addition to the teacher, several other people leave the town in the surge of Haitian refugees that followed the violent overthrow of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide in September.
"Why should people return here?" said a bare-chested 24 year old man, Destine Bernard, who added that he hoped one day to ride a boat to the United States. "They are afraid of violence, they are afraid of hard times. Things are very rough here. Can't you see?"
 
'Nothing We Can Do'
 Amid sporadic crackdowns on the supporters of Father Aristide, few dared claim to support for the deposed leader, as had the returned teacher. Father Aristide won 67 percent of the popular vote in the country's first democratic election, in December 1990, and in many poor rural areas, his support was even stronger.
But as a crowd of curious children and grizzled elders gathered on the village's main strip, a shaded, dusty road, with great caution, some people gradually let on their political thoughts.
"We voted for a President and they took him away, now there is nothing we can do," said Aristel Moise, a 63-year-old farmer dressed in a straw hat and carrying a machete.
Asked what he thought of the provisional, army-backed Government that replaced Father Aristide, Mr. Moise, who minutes earlier had shared vivid memories of the 1969 massacre by Duvalier forces, grimaced. "We don't want to talk about politics here," he said.
 
Napoleonic Police
 After the September coup against Father Aristide, the all-powerful rural police known as chefs de sections, whom the deposed President had moved to eliminate, returned in force to reimpose their authority. In addition to enforcing the law, those police, a legacy of Napoleonic France and the Haitian revolution, have traditionally acted as judges and tax collectors whose authority is maintained at gunpoint.
Since the coup, international human-rights groups have accused the chefs de section of murderous violence and intimidation against rural populations.
Asked about their own chef de section, the villagers of Casale turned visibly uneasy, acknowledging that he had returned since the coup. Another fear, that of poverty made worse by an international embargo against Haiti, was expressed openly.
"The rains won't come and there isn't enough to eat, said Valmont Williams, an elderly farmer who carried a straw sack and machete on his way to nearby beanfields. "The embargo has crushed us. We are suffering and suffering is never sweet."

GRAPHIC: Map of Haiti indicating Casale. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (66%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; CASALE (HAITI) HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (66%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLICE; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ASYLUM (POLITICAL) REFUGEES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (84%); NAVIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); POLITICS (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); LAYOFFS (63%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (62%); APPEALS COURTS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); FRENCH, HOWARD W JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



329 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: Layoffs Called No Big Threat To a Recovery

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
Although many of the country's biggest companies have announced plans to cut staggering numbers of employees, economists say the layoffs alone do not add up to a threat that could demolish the chances for an economic recovery this year.
What most people forget, the economists say, is that the sheer size of the overall United States labor market dwarfs even sweeping cuts planned by the I.B.M.'s, G.M.'s and Lockheeds. No matter how devastating plant cutbacks and mass layoffs are for the communities and individuals directly affected, new research shows that surprisingly large job losses amount to business-as-usual for the flexible American economy even in the best of times.
 
Danger Is Psychological
 The gravest danger the corporate cutbacks pose is psychological. Layoff headlines could frighten those with jobs into thinking that they might be next and cause them to stop spending, a statistic measured as consumer confidence. Policy makers from Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, on down have consistently underestimated the power of low consumer confidence in the last two years. Collapsing confidence helped knock a sluggish economy into recession a year and a half ago, and another panic attack, prompted by the layoff surge, strangled the fledgling recovery last fall. 
 At the same time, "jobs are the key to confidence," said Gail Fosler, chief economist of the Conference Board, a business organization in New York that tracks consumer confidence.
And Jill Thompson, an economist at DRI/McGraw-Hill, a research company based in Lexington, Mass., commented, "Unless consumers start hearing some positives too, the recovery could abort."
 
Weak Recovery Expected
 To be sure, most forecasts are for an anemic recovery in the second half of this year anyway and already assume continued cutbacks in military spending and contraction in some important industries like banking.
Yet economist foresee a slower pace of layoffs as the overall business climate improves. Nothing like the huge job losses of fall of 1990 and winter of 1991, when the overall economy was contracting, are expected now.
Consider the following points:
The tens of thousands layoffs can certainly be swallowed up in a nationwide labor market of 109 million payroll jobs and several thousand self-employed when the economic cycle turns up.
Even if the economy creates jobs at the slowest rate since the 1950's, as some forecasters expect, the economy would generate 100,000 to 200,000 jobs a month once a recovery was under way. In other words, a single month's worth of job growth would offset the combined G.M. and I.B.M. cuts.
 
Normal Ebb and Flow
 "The economy is quite capable of accommodating large amounts of people being laid off," said Steven Davis, an economist at the University of Chicago. In the 1980's, the total number of payroll jobs grew about 3 percent a year, but that aggregate increase masked a far greater amount of flux. While 20 million net new jobs were created, 10 percent of existing manufacturing jobs and 13 percent of service jobs disappeared each year, most of them for good.
What will be decisive for the economy now is the decline in interest rates, inflation and some costs of doing business. Economists say these broad macroeconomic forces should revive home buying and consumer spending over the coming months, as well as ease the squeeze on business cash flow. Thus they expect most employers will be encouraged to stop trimming payrolls and more people will be inspired to start new businesses.
Historically, the role of the broad forces almost always matters more in the highly diversified American economic than the troubles of individual industries.
"Recessions increase the pressure for restructuring and recoveries take some of the pressure off," said Thomas Nardone, an economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics. "Some industries have stabilized, even though they haven't turned up."
Apart from the health-care industry, which has been growing robustly throughout the recession, the declines in nondurable manufacturing and business and personal services have leveled off.
The consensus among economists says the worst has already happened. Even with the latest layoff wave and the net job losses of recent months, payrolls are no lower now than they were last spring. By contrast, payrolls fell by a 2.3 million jobs between July 1990 and April 1991. That's almost as many jobs as were lost in the 1981-82 recession.
"A lot of the walls have fallen," said Samuel Ehrenhalt, the commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics for the New York region. "What's gone is gone and you're not going to go through that again."
Because many of the recent layoffs have been in the service industries, economists see fewer cutbacks ahead. "At some point when you cut workers, you cut the capacity of company to deliver the services," said Stephen Roach, an economist at Morgan Stanley. "There's a limit to how far you can slash."
Economists also caution against focusing too exclusively on the Fortune 500, the nation's largest companies, which collectively shed one in four jobs in the 1980's.
"If we had counted on the Fortune 500 to create jobs in the 80's, we wouldn't have added a single one, " said Bruce Steinberg of Merrill Lynch & Company. "Nonetheless, the U.S. economy generated 20 million new jobs."
And Daniel Lewin, director of the Institute for Industrial Relations at the University of California at Los Angeles said, "The prospects for job growth are there but in small and medium-sized businesses." I.B.M., for example, has lopped off more than 50,000 jobs since 1986 and plans to trim 20,000 more. But, Mr. Lewin said, I.B.M.'s joint ventures with other companies have created 400,000 jobs since 1986.
 
Outline of an Upturn
 Here is how a slow recovery in the job market could take place:
"Over the next six months," Mr. Steinberg said, "construction just should begin to rise with new housing starts, manufacturing employment should begin to stabilize as auto production improves and temporary agencies should lift services employment. As sales gradually recover, retail and wholesale, which already made deep cuts, will have to stop cutting."
The recovery is likely to be weaker and later in California and New England, the two parts of the country hurt most by troubles in real estate, banking and defense.
"Things that could be neutral for the United States will be downers for California," said David Hensley, director of the U.C.L.A. Business Forecasting Project. The California economy will not start adding jobs until this fall, if then, he predicts.
 
Regional Variations
 In New England, "we're not talking about very ambitious job growth," said Nicholas Perna, chief economist at the Shawmut National Corporation, based in Hartford and Boston. "We're talking about 1 or 2 percent a year. In the 80's we could do that in a couple of good months." Mr. Perna expects the region's economy to stabilize by year-end.
Tens of thousands individuals, including many high-paid managers and professionals, whose jobs are likely to disappear in coming months and years could face a rough time, depending on the buoyancy of the overall job market, how portable their skills are and how old they are. The hardest hit are likely to be the over-40 workers who cannot relocate or learn new work, as well as less-educated workers.
"There's going to be a significant degree of disruption in terms of people displaced," said Wolfgang Demisch, a military contracting analyst at UBS Securities.
"There's going to be a significant degree of disruption in terms of people displaced," said Wolfgang Demisch, a military contracting analyst at UBS Securities. "If you've been designing signal processors for radar warning systems, it's not obvious that you can design PC's."
White collar workers -- middle managers, engineers and administrative workers -- are getting hit harder than at any time since the Vietnam war ended in the early 1970's. The toll of corporate reorganization is even harsher for blue collar and clerical workers. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the number of proessional and managerial jobs in the United State economy edged up by one million in the last year and a half. The number of clerical and technical jobs, by contrast, have shrunk by one million.

GRAPHIC: Tables: "Largest Cutbacks," shows the largest permanent layoffs announced by U.S. corporations in the second half of 1991; "What's Depressing Consumers," lists private jobs lost and percentage change in private payrolls in recessions of 1973-75, 1981-82 and 1990-Jan. 1992 (Source: Merrill Lynch); "Forecasting Uneven Job Growth," lists forecasts of job growth for different U.S. regions, showing number of jobs created, % change in number of jibs and average employment rate (Source: DRI/McGraw-Hill) (pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBM (NYSE) (93%); IBM (LSE) (93%); GMR (LSE) (90%); GM (NYSE) (90%); LK (NYSE) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (93%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (93%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK AND UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (59%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (64%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); LOCKHEED CORP DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (66%); NEW YORK (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); LOCKHEED CORP NEW YORK (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (64%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); LAYOFFS (92%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); STEVEN A DAVIS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



330 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: BORDER CROSSINGS NEAR OLD RECORD; U.S. TO CRACK DOWN

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 8

 BODY:
Six years after the passage of a law intended to halt the flow of illegal aliens from Mexico, immigration officials expect that the number of people apprehended at the border this year may reach or exceed the peak levels recorded before the law was signed.
In response, the Bush Administration plans to announce a series of stepped-up enforcement measures to handle what may be more than a million apprehensions this year. The measures include hiring hundreds of new border patrol agents, issuing counterfeit-resistant work permits and using military vehicles left over from the Persian Gulf war to patrol border areas. 
 Attorney General William P. Barr, who is scheduled to discuss the proposals in a speech in San Diego on Monday as part of a three-day tour of the southern border, said in an interview today, "We believe that the combination of lighting, repairing fences and increased numbers of personnel, all targeted at the most used routes, will have the promise of significantly reducing the flow."
 
'Revolving Door'
 But immigration experts said that the law-enforcement actions were unlikely to succeed without moves dealing with the economic disparities between the United States and Mexico and other countries.
"What this does is speed up the revolving door," said Wayne A. Cornelius, director of the Center for U.S.-Mexican studies at University of California at San Diego. "It's a Band-Aid attuned to election-year politics.
"The border patrol will increase the catch rate," he added. "But the deterrent effect is exceedingly limited. The overriding reality is that the economic attraction of U.S. employment is still too powerful."
 
Continuing to Increase
 According to the records of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, illegal immigration continues to increase despite countermeasures like the extension of a heavy metal fence that immigration officials say will eventually close off nearly 12 miles along the border south of San Diego, where more than 40 percent of all apprehensions occur. In a new tactic, some aliens are avoiding the fence by rushing in groups along the highway through the Mexican-controlled border crossing used by people exiting the United States.
The immigration records show that after a peak of nearly 1.76 million apprehensions in the 1986 fiscal year, the number of people caught crossing the border declined to 954,000 in 1989. But since then apprehensions climbed to 1.13 million last year, and immigration officials say the number this year may surpass the record in 1986, when Congress passed the Immigration Reform and Control Act, which requires employers to verify that that workers may legally work in the United States.
The number of apprehensions represents only a portion of the people actually entering the United States, although border patrol officials say that some of the increase in the rate is a result of stepped-up security measures.
The increase has overwhelmed Federal immigration authorities and officials in some border states say illegal immigration represents a huge financial burden that they can ill afford in an economic downturn. In California, a crucial state for Republicans in the November Presidential election, Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, has sought additional measures to curb illegal immigration, saying it is straining the state's budget for health care, welfare and immigration.
 
Adding Agents
 The immigration service plans this year to add 300 agents to the 2,300-member force assigned to interdict aliens and drug traffickers along the 1,900-mile border separating the United States and Mexico. In next year's budget, the Justice Department is seeking 200 more border patrol agents.
The proposals would provide the agents with new equipment, including communications gear, sensors, lighting and military vehicles supplied by the Defense Department to help patrol areas along the border.
The immigration service would also hire 200 more investigation officers, including 150 to find and deport aliens who have committed crimes in the United States. The other 50 agents will be assigned to stiffen enforcement of the Federal sanctions in the 1986 law against employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens.
In an effort to encourage legal entry, the immigration service will hire 250 temporary workers to reduce the backlog of applications from people seeking legal residency in the United States. Without additional workers, immigration officials expect that by the end of the year there will be 1.2 million applications from people seeking citizenship under the amnesty provisions of the 1990 Immigration Act.
Justice Department officials say they will finance the new package in large part by shifting money within the existing budget of the immigration service.
President Bush and President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico have expressed hope that the free trade agreement they are negotiating would be a step toward a long-term solution of the problem. But a number of experts believe that even with the agreement, Mexican wages and employment rates will take years to rise enough to compete with American salaries.
In the interim, the Bush Administration appears to be relying mainly on intensifed law enforcement to discourage illegal entries.
Immigration experts say the 1986 law affecting employment has been undercut by weak enforcement and by widespread use of forged documents used by workers to establish their eligibility for jobs.
In response, the immigration service will recall 1.5 million alien registration documents, or green cards, issued before 1970. Those older green cards, used to prove employment eligibility, are the easiest to counterfeit, immigration officials say. In their place, the immigration service will issue counterfeit-resistant documents, charging $70 to reissue the card.
Another measure is intended for those who commit crimes in the United States. Justice Department officials say of the nearly 65,000 inmates in Federal institutions, one-quarter -- the majority of them from Mexico -- are non-citizens. In some court systems, like Orange County in Southern California, nearly 35 percent of the suspects arraigned are aliens, the officials say.
The Justice Department plans to establish a National Criminal Alien Tracking Center that would permit law enforcement agencies to contact the immigration service anytime to identify and track aliens who commit crimes.
The system would be used to more quickly deport aliens upon completion of prison terms and to allow immigration officials to begin deportation proceedings against aliens while they are in prison.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Arrested At the Border," tracks people apprehended at the border, 1986-1991 (Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service) (pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MEXICO MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (92%); BORDER CONTROL (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); TRENDS (76%); DESERT STORM (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



331 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Haitians Provide a Test for Disputed Refugee Act

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEWARK, Feb. 8

 BODY:
The first Haitians to win temporary asylum in this country have begun arriving in the New York area, and their accounts of suffering under the Haitian military Government offer some clues to the way American officials at the Guantanamo refugee camp are applying the ill-defined and often disputed test of political persecution under Federal immigration law.
About a third of the boat people interviewed so far at the American Navy base in Cuba have been granted entry to the United States under a three-month parole status, while the rest have been returned against their will to Haiti. During the threemonths, those permitted entry will prepare for additional questioning to meet the test of the Refugee Act of 1980, which grants asylum to anyone who can show "a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group or political opinion." 
 Many civil liberties groups, as well as the United States Catholic Conference, have called this test unfairly vague and unresponsive to the climate of repression and random violence many Haitians are reporting on the island. These groups have protested the forced repatriation of Haitians who failed to meet that test in interviews with officials at the Guantanamo tent camp.
Legislation has been introduced in Congress to suspend the forced returns. They resumed last weekend when the Supreme Court cleared the way for the repatriations even as a Federal appeals court considers the legality of Washington's policy.
 
Specific Threat Needed
 Interviews with a half dozen young men approved on the basis of their Guantanamo interviews suggest that immigration officials consider evidence of a "well-founded fear of persecution" to be attacks on family members, membership in groups that supported the ousted President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, or participation in the broad social improvement programs initiated by Father Aristide. But such factors apparently must be paired with an account of a specific threat to the refugee for the refugee to gain entry.
Immigration officials are not accepting, by all accounts, broadly expressed fears of repression by soldiers who attack anyone suspected of for sympathy with the former President.
Economic hardship, even under the United States-led embargo of Haiti that followed the coup, is specifically not accepted as grounds for asylum, an official of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said.
"They are asked questions that are intended to elicit inormation about what their activities were at home," said Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the service in Washington. "If they express a fear, we ask what they feared, so it is not enough to say 'I am afraid.' You ask, why, and of whom, and get as much specific information out of them as possible: where they lived, what have they done, what was the political situation in their areas."
Nemy Numat, a high school teacher, said he fled arrest, and possibly much worse, because he had volunteered in a rural literacy program under President Aristide. Jesusfort Mondesir, a mechanic, and Yvon Pierre, a taxi driver, said they had taken part in neighborhood cleanup campaigns with political overtones. Sineus Sobner, a young farmer, said he had seen his father shot for organizing a social outreach program at his rural church.
These men, all in their 20s, are among the 1,402 Haitians released into the United States so far to be considered for permanent political refuge or face deportation.
About 500 of these, having no family ties in this country, have been turned over to Catholic immigration and community service workers in Newark, Paterson, Brooklyn, Boston and Los Angeles.
According to Immigration officials, those who make it past the Guantanamo interviews stand little chance of eventual deportation. They have so many routes of appeal that the burden of proof shifts to the Government. In the end, few are ever deported.
But 2,022 Haitians have so far been sent back to Haiti on Coast Guard cutters from Guantanamo, their claims to political asylum rejected, according to the latest figures from the immigration service provided Friday.
Meanwhile, 11,570 remain at the camp awaiting rulings from the 15 two-member interviewing teams.
The Haitians were all picked up at sea by the Coast Guard after fleeing their country aboard rickety boats in the chaotic aftermath of the military coup on Sept. 30.
According to the refugees interviewed in and around New York, the procedure that decides their fate takes only about 30 minutes. Immigration officers working with Creole-speaking interpreters have been briefed about events on the island, to compare a refugee's story with known events.
"We try to find out if what they are saying to us is consistent with what we know, and if what they are saying will hold up under questioning," Mr. Jervis said.
So when Mr. Mondesir, who is 25 years old, told his interviewer that he had been targeted for reprisal for the torching of the police station and court house at Grand Goave on the day of the coup, he was surprised to see that the official knew about the fire. He denied taking part in the arson.
Sineus Sobner, a farmer of 24 from the country outside Petit Trou de Nippes, a coastal town, told of the slaying of his father, Henri Gisele Sobner, a member of the board of Miller-Le-Dieu, the small Catholic church where Sineus was an usher. The church had begun a social program in literacy and medical care after Father Aristide's election.
On Sept. 30, the day after the coup, Mr. Sobner said, soldiers came to his home and shot his father. A month later, Mr. Sobner dashed out the back door as the soldiers returned, smashing through the front door.
For a month he hid at Le Boutellier, another village. On Christmas Eve, he said, he paid $15 for a spot on a 30-foot sailboat with 70 other people. Of the 70 on his boat, Mr. Sobner said, 10 were eventually cleared to go to Miami.
Jean Ambroise, a 25-year-old farmer from Leogane, said that he had nothing to do with politics, but that his two brothers were active in L'Unite de Lavalasse, a pro-Aristide party. Now in the care of the Brooklyn diocese, Mr. Ambroise said there were portraits of Father Aristide hanging in the family house when, on Nov. 24, soldiers burst in and shot his two brothers dead. He was outside tending the cows when the shooting started. He did not even say goodbye to his mother on his way into hiding.
Five days later, he waved down a refugee boat putting out from the coast, and the next day, Nov. 30, the Coast Guard stopped them and took the refugees to Guantanamo.
"I never intended to come here," Mr. Ambroise said in an interview. "But I would rather die in this country now. Even if Aristide returned today, the same people who committed those crimes will still be there, and I will be killed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yvon Pierre, left, a taxi driver, and Sineus Sobner, a farmer, are among the 1,402 Haitians who have won temporary asylum in the United States. Both have sought aid from Catholic community-service workers in Newark, as have about 500 others with no family ties here. (F. N. Kinney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CUBA (90%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (57%); UNITED STATES CATHOLIC CONFERENCE (56%); UNITED STATES CATHOLIC CONFERENCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (57%); UNITED STATES CATHOLIC CONFERENCE (56%); UNITED STATES CATHOLIC CONFERENCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; GUANTANAMO (CUBA); UNITED STATES HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CUBA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ASYLUM (POLITICAL); IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT REFUGEES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); COUPS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); NAVIES (78%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PAROLE (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); RELIGION (68%); APPEALS COURTS (65%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (50%); 

PERSON: JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



332 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Factory Dinosaurs Imperil Poland's Economic Gain

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RZESZOW, Poland

 BODY:
Plunked by government fiat on Defenders of Stalingrad Street, the W.S.K. company endured the cold war as a reluctant Polish cog in the Soviet military machine, grinding out spare parts and helicopter engines.
The street name -- choosing it was roughly akin to calling an American street Hanoi Avenue -- was changed by city officials shortly after Polish Communism collapsed in 1989. Just a year later, the Soviet Union failed to make good on on a $30 million debt to the factory, and soon after disappeared from the map altogether. 
 W.S.K. remains. The largest employer in this city 180 miles southeast of Warsaw, it is a worst-case instance of how the industrial legacies of the Communist system threaten to drag down economic reform plans in Poland and other Eastern European nations.
The factory, part of an interlocking group of aviation concerns that employ 70,000 people across Poland, stands on the verge of bankruptcy. Management and the Solidarity union demand a bailout to save their company and help this city of 153,000, which depends on W.S.K. for everything from heat -- one of its byproducts, steam, keeps a sizable part of the city warm -- to tax revenue. They want the Government to forgive overdue taxes and place big new airplane orders for the Polish Army.
"We're asking the Government to find a place for us in the economy," said Bronislaw Jarecki, member of the Solidarity leadership at W.S.K., whose initials stand for Transportation Equipment Manufacturer in Polish. "The Government has to make a decision whether or not it needs an aircraft industry or whether it has to be restructured or whether one-half should produce aviation and the rest something else.
"You cannot close this down. It's too big. Something has to remain here."
The company, and dozens others like it, represent a test of strength for the shaky coalition Government of Jan Olszewski, the Prime Minister, who has called Poland's budget "catastrophic."
Pleas are pouring in from every corner of the heavy industry-empire built by the Communists. At the Nowa Huta steel mill in Cracow, the country's biggest state-run concern, they are pressing for a Government-guaranteed loan to rebuild foundries. The previous Government had a radical plan to close a substantial portion of the company and throw 15,000 people out of work; it was greeted by a workers' hunger strike.
 
Private Businesses Double
 The opening moves in Poland's reform, market prices and free trade began on Jan. 1, 1990, and brought cities like Warsaw or Cracow alive with commerce. Last year, the number of private businesses doubled.
Yet the national economy is in a recession, with unemployment above 11 percent. Only a handful of Poland's more than 8,000 state-run enterprises have been turned over to the private sector, and restructuring Communism's industrial dinousaurs is proving even harder than expected. More than 60 percent of Polish workers are still employed by the Government, either as bureaucrats or at the state companies.
Polish officials acknowledge that bailing out the state companies, particularly those that depended on the arms business or now-collapsed Soviet market, would mean hyperinflation and a crippling blow to the fledlging private sector.
Jerzy Eysmontt, new leader of the Government's economic team, insisted that Poland would not go on a money-printing spree to underwrite the aid. That would place in jeopardy the seal of approval from the International Monetary Fund that Warsaw needs to continue reducing its $45 billion foreign debt and gain foreign assistance to finance its large deficit.
Prime Minister Olszewski, who plans to unveil his economic blueprint by mid-February, faces a brutal dilemma. If he helps the Rzeszow plant or similar claimants, all will clamor for a piece of the pie. Flat rejections risk a wave of social unrest from the workers at the large state-run industries who were the prime supporters of the Solidarity movement.
Aides to Mr. Olszewski said the decision has already been made to protect the several dozen towns in which one factory is the only employer for tens of thousands of people. The hundreds of cities like Rzeszow, where bankruptcy of a leading company would be very painful but not fatal, pose a more difficult problem.
No government has yet dared tell the Communist-era factories the cold truth: that many of them are virtually worthless and must be scrapped or drastically overhauled.
"It's too late," said Zdzislaw Najder, newly named senior adviser to Mr. Olszewski. "Two years ago, I said we should be preparing policy that recognizes: those who made this victory over Communism possible, the workers in big state enterprises, will be worse hit. Instead, nothing was done."
Mr. Najder said the new Government must forge a social compact with Polish society and the trade unions. "We have to agree on a set of minimal obligations in social security, health, education," he said. "Then we will have to start with the admission that we cannot do even that."
Out in Rzeszow (pronounced zheh-SHOOF), where the Solidarity union is holding an occupation strike in a management building, they are convinced Mr. Olszewski will prove sympathetic.
At first glance, the plant looks like Poland, circa 1980. The Solidarity banner is draped across the W.S.K. factory gates. Upstairs, a crowd of workers clusters in a room filled with long tables. A crucifix gazes down at the scene from a perch next to the Polish flag.
There are differences. Back then, the fear was that the Soviets might come. Now, the worry is that the former Soviet republics might not return with their business. Then, the workers wanted a voice in running the factory. Now, they have the power to fire managers, and design their protests to avoid slowing production.
 
Job Rolls Cut Sharply
 Since 1989, W.S.K. has trimmed its job rolls from 14,000 to 8,500, with layoffs of 1,500 more scheduled for this spring. In 1990, it paid $6.4 million in taxes to the central Government. Last year, the Government levied $3.3 million in taxes, but collected none.
The company has some exports to foreign countries, and hopes for more. A study by Polish consultants concluded that the aviation sector could survive, if it were cut from 70,000 to 30,000 jobs and switched from military production to crop dusters, jet trainers and smaller aircraft for developing nations. Joint ventures with major Western aircraft makers were possible, the report concluded.
Mieczyslaw Janowski, the Mayor of Rzeszow and a former aviation engineer at W.S.K., sees no alternative to rescuing the concern. Unemployment in the city stands at 17 percent, and W.S.K. represents 12 percent of the remaining jobs and 15 percent of local tax revenue.
"In my opinion, the state cannot wash their hands of it," Mr. Janowski said. "At one time, the state made the decision as to what kind of production. O.K., it was a Communist state, but there were very restricted possibilities. Now you can't just say, 'Boys, do it completely by yourselves.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: The W.S.K. company in Rzeszow is part of an interlocking group of aviation concerns that employs 70,000 people across Poland and is on the brink of bankruptcy. Workers at the plant, members of the Solidarity union, talked in the management building during an occupation strike. (Witold Jaroslaw Szulecki for The New York Times)
 
Map of Poland indicating Rzeszow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: POLAND (99%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND; EAST EUROPE; EUROPE; RZESZOW (POLAND) POLAND (99%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); WARSAW, POLAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR COLD WAR (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); BAILOUTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); DEFENSE ORDERS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); HELICOPTERS (77%); AIRCRAFT MFG (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (77%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RECESSION (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); BUDGETS (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); CITIES (71%); TRENDS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); NEW ORDERS (69%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (65%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (64%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (61%); 

PERSON: ENGELBERG, STEPHEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



333 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Chief Reduces Top Posts in Administration

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Feb. 8

 BODY:
Barely a month after taking office, Secretary General Boutros Ghali has announced a sweeping reorganization that streamlines departments and slashes top posts in the unwieldy United Nations Secretariat.
The action, announced on Friday, follows the outlines of a proposal submitted last year by an informal group of representatives from more than 20 industrialized and developing countries, including the United States. 
 In a change intended to give Mr. Ghali more time to devote to peacekeeping, eight undersecretaries general will report to him directly, down from about 30 top officials under the old system. But the plan disregards the representatives' suggestion that the five permanent Security Council members -- the United States, Britain, France, Russia and China -- agree not to claim any top posts for a few years.
The changes reflect the emphasis of a Security Council summit meeting last week in which leaders affirmed the role of the United Nations in maintaining peace in the post-cold-war era.
A former Deputy Foreign Minister of the defunct Soviet Union, Vladimir F. Petrovsky, has been named one of two new Under Secretaries General for Political Affairs, the second most important post under Mr. Ghali's. Mr. Petrovsky will deal with the Security Council and the General Assembly and handle disarmament questions and peacemaking in selected regions.
The other Under Secretary General for Political Affairs will be James O. C. Jonah of Sierra Leone, who will be responsible for peacemaking in Africa and parts of Asia.
Both will be assisted in their mediation efforts by Giandomenico Picco, the Italian official who played a central role in securing the release of Western hostages in Beirut last year, and a Greek official, Sotirios Mousouris, who will have the rank of Assistant Secretary General. Under Secretary General Marrack Goulding of Britain remains the senior official in charge of peacekeeping operations.
All of the sections concerned with economic assistance to the third world will fall under the Department of Economic Development, headed by Under Secretary General Ji Chaozhu of China.
The chief United Nations counsel, Carl-August Fleischhauer of Germany, will remain as Under Secretary General in charge of legal affairs, but will take over the office that oversees negotiations on mining the ocean floor.
Eugeniusz Wyzner of Poland becomes the Under Secretary General in charge of information; Jean-Claude Aime of Haiti has been named chief of staff and Alvaro de Soto of Peru will be Mr. Ghali's senior political adviser.
The top post in administration and management, which involves control of the budget, is expected to go to an American, officials said.
France is the only permanent Council member not to provide one of the eight top under secretaries general. But the French official previously in charge of coordinating economic matters at the United Nations, Antoine Blanca, is to take charge of the United Nations office in Geneva and head its Center for Human Rights.
Also unfilled for the moment is the new senior post of emergency relief coordinator, created by the General Assembly at the end of 1991.
All of the newly appointed officials have contracts for only one year so that Secretary General Ghali will be able to make further changes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (90%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); LEBANON (79%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); HAITI (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); POLAND (70%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECRETARIAT (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECRETARIAT (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECRETARIAT (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECRETARIAT (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (90%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); LEBANON (79%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); HAITI (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); POLAND (70%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); HOSTAGE TAKING (64%); 

PERSON: GHALI, BOUTROS (SEC GEN); LEWIS, PAUL BOUTROS GHALI (92%); VLADIMIR F PETROVSKY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



334 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 14; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Poland Asked No Questions When Fugitive Set Up Bank

BYLINE: Special to The New York TimesSpecial to The New York Times

DATELINE: WARSAW, Feb. 8

 BODY:
David Bogatin vanished from New York in 1987 after pleading guilty to evading millions of dollars in New York State and Federal taxes. But his conviction did not stop him from getting a license to open a bank in an eastern Polish city near what was then the Soviet border.
When he was setting up the bank in 1990 in the city of Lublin, Mr. Bogatin asserts and Polish officials confirm, nobody asked questions about who he was or where the money came from. 
 But when Mr. Bogatin's identity as a fugitive was unmasked last month by the Polish newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza, his life as an foreign entrepreneur quickly unraveled. The newspaper article was followed by a run on the bank and a request for extradition from the United States that resulted in Mr. Bogatin's arrest last week.
 
Would Be First Extradition
 If Mr. Bogatin, who is 46 years old, is extradited, it would be the first extradition ever between the United States and Poland, which signed an extradition treaty in 1927. United States State Department and Polish Justice Ministry officials said the case is under review.
Mr. Bogatin's Polish attorney, Kazimierz Lojewski, filed an appeal of the extradition request at the Lublin prosecutor's office on Friday. The contents of the appeal are undisclosed.
Mr. Bogatin's arrest was the most recent in a seemingly endless parade of economic scandals in Poland that have struck banks particularly hard and have touched many other business sectors, from car imports to travel agencies.
Mr. Bogatin, who established the First Commercial Bank in Lublin in 1990, left the the United States in 1987 after pleading guilty to tax evasion and promising to pay New York and Federal tax authorities nearly $5 million, according to Nancy Connell, a spokeswoman in the New York State Attorney General's office.
 
Evaded Gasoline Taxes
 Mr. Bogatin pleaded guilty to filing false tax returns to evade taxes owed on some 15 million gallons of gasoline his company distributed. A spokesman for Robert Abrams, the New York Attorney General, said then that Mr. Bogatin was part of a group of dishonest gas distributors that prosecutors believe operated under the direction of Michael Franzese, an admitted captain of the Colombo organized-crime family who was given a 10-year sentence for a Federal racketeering conviction in connection with the scheme.
After the guilty plea in 1987, Mr. Bogatin was free on bail awaiting sentencing when he vanished from New York, forfeiting $500,000, Miss Connell said. She said he was to have been sentenced to up to eight years in prison.
"We are pleased that he has been apprehended," Miss Connell said. "We would like to see him extradited." Only the State Department has the authority to request extradition of United States citizens; officials in Washington said the prospects for Mr. Bogatin's return to the United States looked promising.
A State Department official who spoke on condition of anonymity said: "The Poles are cooperating fully on this. I'm quite sure the Poles want to get it out of their way. If everything goes well it shouldn't take more than a few months, maybe even weeks, to work out."
In Poland, Mr. Bogatin's bank, First Commercial, claims $100 million in deposits and is the first bank to receive permission to sell shares on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. Polish banking officials say there are no indications that either Mr. Bogatin or his bank violated Polish law.
When the news broke, thousands of depositors lined up in the cities where First Commercial has branch offices, withdrawing about $4.5 million out of its 14 branches, a bank spokesman said.
Many later redeposited their money after Mr. Bogatin personally addressed the lines, promising higher interest rates for those who maintained their accounts at First Commercial, as well as a lottery offering cars and apartments for those who keep a minimum one-year deposit.
The bank seems to have flourished by offering depositors above-market interest rates, but it is now likely to come under closer scrutiny from Polish banking officials.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Bogatin (The New York Times, 1987)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); POLAND (96%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); FIRST COMMERCIAL BANK OF HUNTSVILLE (54%); NEW YORK (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND; NEW YORK STATE; LUBLIN (POLAND) UNITED STATES (98%); POLAND (96%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); WARSAW, POLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; EXTRADITION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; BANKS AND BANKING; TAX EVASION EXTRADITION (96%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); TAX FRAUD (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SENTENCING (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FUEL TAX (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); BAIL (73%); SCANDALS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); PETROLEUM WHOLESALERS (67%); APPEALS (66%); GASOLINE (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: BOGATIN, DAVID DAVID BOGATIN (97%); NANCY CONNELL (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



335 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 46; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: John Queenan, 86, Retired Leader In Accounting Profession, Is Dead

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

 BODY:
John W. Queenan, a retired leader in the accounting profession and a former member of the Federal Wage and Price Control Board, died on Friday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn.
He was 86 years old and was a resident of Greenwich and of Tequesta, Fla. He died after surgery for a broken hip, his family said. 
 For 14 years Mr. Queenan headed a leading international accounting firm as the managing partner of Haskins & Sells in an era of expansion. The firm became Deloitte, Haskins & Sells and is now Deloitte & Touche. Among its thousands of clients were an eighth of all companies on the New York Stock Exchange, including General Motors, Coca-Cola and Merrill Lynch.
He was also president of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, which helped set accounting standards. He was a co-chairman of the National Conference of Lawyers and Certified Public Accountants and served on the first Financial Accounting Standards Board, which wrote the rules governing corporate reports.
President Richard M. Nixon appointed him in 1971 to the Wage and Price Control Board, which was created to rein in inflation.
Mr. Queenan was born in Aurora, Ill. He graduated from the University of Illinois in 1927 and scored the highest mark in that state's examination for accountants. He joined Haskins and Sells in Manhattan in 1927. In his 43-year career there, he became a partner in 1939, resident partner in 1946 and managing partner in 1956. He retired in 1970.
Surviving are his wife, the former Alice Thomas; two daughters, Joan Q. McClellan of Greenwich, and Jane C. Gallagher of New Canaan, Conn.; two sons, John T., of Washington, and Charles W., of Glencoe, Ill.; eight grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John W. Queenan (Tommy Weber, 1962)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (91%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (91%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (91%); DELOITTE LLP (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); COCA-COLA CO (56%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (56%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (56%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); ACCOUNTING (94%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); BONE FRACTURES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (55%); 

PERSON: QUEENAN, JOHN W; LAMBERT, BRUCE RICHARD NIXON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



336 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Irish Law Gives Americans a Key to Europe

 BODY:
Lured by the prospect of life in a new Europe, some young Americans of Irish descent are obtaining Irish passports, which let them live and seek jobs in any European Community country.
A relatively obscure Irish law, approved in 1956 in the hope of maintaining ties with the families of emigrants, entitles anyone with evidence of an Irish parent or grandparent to claim citizenship. 
 And under the community's rules, citizens of any member nation have the right to live and seek work in any of the 11 other nations in the community.
As a result, even as tens of thousands of young Irish citizens seek visas to the United States to escape bleak economic prospects at home, a smaller number of Americans, most of them also young, are seeking Irish citizenship so they can work in a Europe they regard as romantic or exotic.
"It's not the purpose for which the act was enacted," said Dermot Brangan, a spokesman for the Irish Consulate General in New York, one of four in the United States. The mission considers 350 requests for passports a year.
"One of the corollaries that follows from taking Irish citizenship is being allowed to work, and move freely through the European Community," Mr. Brangan said. "That wasn't a part of the design of our law. It's followed from other things."
Nationwide, about 750 Americans obtained Irish passports last year, in most cases paying a fee of less than $200. Mr. Brangan said there had been no significant increase in applicants over the last few years, and that it would be difficult to predict whether demand would increase.
The United States allows its citizens to hold more than one passport, but it does not recognize dual citizenship.
In the past, many of those who requested the green passport with the embossed golden harp did so for sentimental reasons, regarding it as a keepsake of origins. Now the passport is issued in burgundy, like all passports of European Community countries.
Some obviously regard it as a passport to jobs in Britain, France, Germany or any other of the dozen community countries.
"When I came to Paris, I saw how difficult it was as an American to get a job," said 25-year-old Damien Barry, of Brooklyn, who studied business administration at Pepperdine University and wanted an international business career. Mr. Barry flew to Ireland, tracked down documents and then returned to Paris, where he applied at the Irish Consulate. Three weeks later, he had what is effectively European Community citizenship.
"It's my only calling card, the only reason I can get a job," said Mr. Barry, who was recently offered a $50,000-a-year post with a bank. Every day, he tucks his passport in his pocket -- "It's worth a million dollars to me."
Among community countries, Greece and Italy also offer citizenship to grandchildren of their emigrants, but with some conditions.
A European passport offers advantages beyond the right to compete for a job. The community assures equal access to vocational training, education for children, union rights and medical care.
There have reportedly been no complaints from other European Community countries about the liberal distribution of Irish, Italian and Greek passports, said Chris Matthews, a spokesman for the European Community mission in Washington.
Standing in a slow-moving line at the Irish Consulate in midtown Manhattan, Beth McGowan of Long Island City waited to slip her passport application to an assistant behind the bulletproof glass. She plans to leave in March for Madrid to live with a Spanish friend.
"This is the perfect alternative," she said, pointing to the thick envelope of official documents. "To live and work in Spain, I might have to consider marrying my boyfriend. But now I won't have to marry him for that reason."
Susan Griffiths, the author of several books on working in foreign countries, cautioned against naive notions about job hunting in Europe.
"It's going to be increasingly difficult over the next few years to work legally or illegally without an E.C. passport," she said by telephone from her home in London. "There's going to be a lot more people crossing borders, looking for work."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); IRELAND (94%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRELAND EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); IRELAND (94%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (58%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%); 

SUBJECT: PASSPORTS; CITIZENSHIP; LABOR; AMERICANS ABROAD; IRISH-AMERICANS CITIZENSHIP (92%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (91%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); FAMILY (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); LEGISLATION (72%); 

PERSON: SIR GEORGE YOUNG (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



337 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 38; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: New York Tourism Industry Says '91 Was 'a Pretty Miserable Year'

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
Battered by a weak national economy, the Gulf war and a growing perception "that ours is a very expensive city," the New York City tourist industry staggered through "a pretty miserable year" in 1991, said Marshall E. Murdaugh, president of the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau Inc.
"The best thing to say about '91," he added, "is that we're glad it's over." 
 Although New York appears not to have suffered more than many other tourist destinations last year, a year in which millions of tourists stayed closer to home and opted for bargain vacations, Mr. Murdaugh suggested that some problems in New York were likely to continue, even after the economy improves. That could have important economic implications in a city where visitors spend almost $10 billion a year, making tourism one of the biggest industries.
Mr. Murdaugh was especially critical of the tax on hotel and motel rooms that cost $100 or more a night, a tax equivalent to 21.25 percent, the highest in the nation. Unofficial figures show that hotel-room nights in New York fell 1.6 percent last year, to 17.3 million, compared with 17.6 million in 1990.
 
Loss of $8 Million in Taxes
 Not only did the tax discourage tourists from staying in New York hotels or from extending their stays, Mr. Murdaugh said, but it was also a major factor in the loss of 32 conventions, meetings that would have generated $4.7 million in taxes for the city and $3.6 million for the state.
"All 32 queried us and wanted to come here," Mr. Murdaugh said. "But once they took a look at the cost of doing business, and especially the cost of hotel rooms, they changed their minds."
New York had 625 conventions last year, down from 783 in 1990. The total of convention delegates fell to 2,453,000 from 2,896,000 in 1990. Delegates' spending also fell, to $1,019,842,000 from $1.1 billion.
Official figures for 1991 will be available in the fall, but most other preliminary indicators are also under 1990.The convention and visitors' bureau says it expects a slight decline in visitors last year, compared with 25.3 million in 1990. The visitors spent $9.66 billion in 1990, the bureau said, which had an economic impact of $12.96 billion.
In the first six months of last year, overall attendance fell 353,000 at 12 selected attractions that included the Bronx Zoo, the Empire State Building and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, compared to the same period in 1990.
Arrivals at the three principal airports in the New York metropolitan region dropped 2.1 million, or 11.4 percent, for the first half of 1991, compared with 1990. Especially disturbing to tourism officials is that international arrivals fell 700,000 or 14.2 percent, because foreigners accounted for 22 percent of the visitors to New York City in 1990 and 40 percent of all tourist spending.
The president of the Hotel Association of New York City, Joseph E. Spinnato, said, "We have the highest room tax in the world, except for maybe Bangkok, Thailand, and it has badly impeded our ability to attract meetings and leisure travelers."
The tax consists of a combined 8.25 percent city and state sales tax, a 6 percent city occupancy tax plus an additional $2 a person a night and, on rooms renting for $100 or more, a 5 percent state tax. No part of the state tax, which went into effect in 1990, applies to rooms costing less than $100. But the average room rate in New York City, where most of the state's higher-priced hotels are situated, is $130.86, according to the accounting firm of Pannell Kerr Forster.
The hotel group has been seeking the repeal of the 5 percent state tax. "What you have," Mr. Spinnato said, "is a state tax that is basically aimed at New York City." But some Manhattan hoteliers say privately that, given the state's own budgetary problems, a repeal is highly unlikely.
Mr. Murdaugh forecast a modest improvement over the next six months, but cautioned that, "Our outlook for 1992 is tempered by a degree of cautious optimism." One thing that should help is the Democratic Convention, to be held in Manhattan from July 13 to 16, which city officials estimate will generate $100 million in economic activity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY CONVENTION AND VISITORS BUREAU EMPIRE STATE BUILDING CO (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY CONVENTION AND VISITORS BUREAU

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; TAXATION; HOTELS AND MOTELS; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; NYTRAVEL TOURISM (94%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (91%); LODGING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



338 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 40; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: More Access to Waterfront Is Urged in Messinger Plan

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
Saying that the city's current period of financial hardship is a good time for long-term planning, Borough President Ruth W. Messinger of Manhattan has proposed to open much more of the borough's 32 miles of waterfront to the public and to take the first steps toward a continuous esplanade around the island.
Ms. Messinger's plan, contained in a 96-page report released last week, is the first to bring together dozens of other studies and to seek to guide development on the entire waterfront well into the next century. The proposals range from moving fences and putting up extra signs to building multimillion-dollar parks. 
 "This is precisely the right moment for visionary planning," Ms. Messinger said after releasing the report on Wednesday. "The hiatus in real-estate development produced by the recession also has a silver lining -- with the acrimonious battles over private waterfront development temporarily moot, we can seize the opportunity to plan the waterfront's future for the public good."
In the vast majority of neighborhoods, the report advocates opening the shoreline to the public and discourages residential or commercial development that would make the waterfront private. It does support mixed-income housing in the large development being planned for the 57-acre Penn Yards tract on the Hudson River between 59th and 72d Streets.
 
Fences, Signs and Waterfront
 "Part of the tone of this whole report is what can be done tomorrow?" Ms. Messinger said. "As we looked at it we discovered much of this mileage was city-owned and with relatively small-scale changes we could have greater access."
For instance, the report suggests that the United Nations School at East 24th Street should be asked to provide access to the East River and that signs should be posted to tell pedestrians how to thread their way through the Waterside Plaza houses, at East 25th Street, to a public esplanade that few know about.
The report also includes an ambitious proposal for a park along the Harlem River from the Triborough Bridge to 145th street, land that is zoned for a park but has become a wasteland of garbage and derelict cars. The initial phase of the construction would cost $2.7 million, and Ms. Messinger said she would support using capital funds under her control to help finance it.
The report suggests that where possible the city should terminate leases with parking lots along the waterfront, move its own tow pounds and other operations elsewhere and eliminate the two prison barges currently moored on the shoreline. It says the city should renegotiate or terminate leases with businesses that restrict public access to the water.
 
West Side Highway, Plus Park
 Here are the report's recommendations for some controversial areas:
*Stuyvesant Cove from East 16th Street to 24th Street. The report recommends terminating the developer for the Riverwalk development, which was to be built largely on platforms on top of pilings. That plan was dropped in 1990 because of environmental problems, but the developer, Related Housing Inc., continues to hold rights to the site. Instead, Ms. Messinger would like to see a waterfront park with no businesses other than concession stands.
*West Side waterfront from Battery Park City to West 59th Street. Ms. Messinger urges pushing ahead with the recommendations of the West Side Waterfront Panel, which issued a report in late 1990. The plan would construct an esplanade, remove barriers like parking lots and tow pounds and allow new development only on the east side of a reconstructed West Side highway.
*The Penn Yards. The report supports the main thrust of a plan offered by the developer Donald J. Trump and a consortium of civic groups known as the Riverside South Planning Corporation after Mr. Trump's idea for a large-scale development, Trump City, collapsed last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; MANHATTAN (NYC) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ZONING (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (74%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; MESSINGER, RUTH W (BORO PRES) RUTH W MESSINGER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



339 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 40; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: In Unlikely Pairing, Ickes Strengthens Clinton Bid

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
That Harold M. Ickes joined Gov. Bill Clinton's Presidential quest surprised many of Mr. Ickes's political colleagues. Not just because the Arkansan is viewed as a moderate and the iconoclastic Mr. Ickes is a liberal from the West Side of Manhattan who profoundly disagrees with Mr. Clinton's support of the death penalty.
Most people were surprised for another reason. Mr. Clinton is -- or was -- considered the front-runner for the Democratic nomination. And Mr. Ickes, who is as unconventional as he is committed, has been a perennial supporter of losers. Four years ago, he supported the Rev. Jesse Jackson, not to make a President, but to make a point about the Democratic Party's drift from its liberal roots. 
 Mr. Ickes's value to a campaign is as an unrelenting tactician. He can also deliver a devoted following. When City Councilwoman Ronnie M. Eldridge, a Democrat who represents the Upper West Side, was recently asked why she was supporting the Governor, an uncharacteristically moderate candidate by her standards, she responded with two words: "Harold Ickes."
Mr. Ickes, 52 years old, a lawyer whose father, Harold L. Ickes, who was Secretary of the Interior and who carried out tough tasks for Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman, has been immersed in politics for 25 years. But about the closest he has come to a cabinet were those that he fashioned as a part-time carpenter. He has managed campaigns for candidates whose headquarters he sometimes built himself, whose philosophy he shared and whom he valiantly fought the good fight for and usually lost.
 
Iconoclastic Tactician
 Mr. Clinton's campaign, which Mr. Ickes directs in New York State, is the first in which he has enlisted with a candidate who is apparently the front-runner. Mr. Clinton represents a candidate with whom Mr. Ickes differs on several issues, but who he believes has the best chance of defeating President Bush.
Disputed allegations about sexual affairs, derogatory comments about Gov. Mario M. Cuomo that Mr. Clinton acknowledges having made and, more recently, questions about his draft status may undermine what is perhaps the greatest source of his support, the view that he is the most electable Democrat in the field.
"I think there's no question a lot of people are undoubtedly raising that as a serious question, and my sense is their judgment is being withheld until New Hampshire results are in," Mr. Ickes said.
He added that "any front-runner is bound to take some lumps," but he acknowledged that whether Mr. Clinton was the front-runner was debatable. "I don't know what tense to use any more," he said.
"I knew about the rumors, but I never knew they had any substance and still don't," said Mr. Ickes, whose father's affair during his first marriage was an open secret that went unreported.
Mr. Ickes has devoted much of his energies lately to damage control. He telephoned political and labor leaders who had signed up to be Clinton delegates or who had pledged their support, trying to gauge the degree to which they might be wavering and to reassure those who were that their candidate may have been wounded, but not fatally, if for no other reason, he reasoned, than there is no obvious alternative.
"I'm pleased that nobody has defected," Mr. Ickes said. He acknowledged, though, that "this is a big bump," as he tried to sound philosophical about a setback that might more deeply embitter politicians who were less accustomed to losing.
"First impressions affect people, and for people first learning about Bill Clinton, they may be concerned," he said. "I wouldn't want anyone to go into my background. None of us is perfect. None of what has come out has shaken me. None of it throws into question his character."
If Mr. Ickes needed more diversion from the campaign or the demands of his law practice, as counsel to Mayor David N. Dinkins's campaign committee he also helped investigations of the committee chairman, Arnold I. Biegen, who was indicted last week on Federal and state charges that he stole $158,000 in campaign money.
 
From Lowenstein's First Race
 Whatever Mr. Clinton's appeal, the breadth of his support in New York is widely credited to Mr. Ickes's persistence and to the loyalty of the following he has developed since he worked in Allard K. Lowenstein's first, and unsuccessful, Congressional campaign, which Ms. Eldridge managed. Mr. Ickes has never run for office and probably never could, because of the prickly personality that he inherited from his father, a self-proclaimed curmudgeon. But the younger Mr. Ickes has toiled tirelessly for others.
Even Mr. Clinton's rivals concede that he has received the bulk of organization support in the state, including the Democratic leaders of the Bronx, Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island, the heads of the teachers' and New York City municipal employees' unions and the people whom Mr. Ickes described as "West Side liberals like myself." Many of those liberals and many more labor leaders might have been expected to support Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, Mr. Ickes said.
"But that assumes Bill is conservative or at best a moderate," Mr. Ickes said. "I consider him progressive in the best sense."
 
'A Phenomenal Campaigner'

Mr. Ickes said he also disagreed with Mr. Clinton's support for armed intervention against Iraq last year, but added: "I agree with him on many more things than I disagree with him on. He is a phenomenal campaigner. I just don't think the others measure up. I don't think they're electable."
Mr. Clinton, who met Mr. Ickes 20 years ago in the antiwar movement, telephoned him at his law office in Mineola, L.I., last summer to sound him out about running his campaign for the primary on April 7. Mr. Ickes hesitated, only in case Mr. Jackson decided to run again, but not out of concern that Mr. Cuomo might, because, Mr. Ickes said, Mr. Cuomo was not an announced candidate and had not reached out to him.
 
Removal of Adding Machines
 Everyone who has worked with him has a favorite Harold Ickes story. At one party meeting in a hotel upstate, he joined his political mentor and the man who was going to become his law partner, John F. English, then the Nassau County Democratic chairman, and Carol Opton, another politician, in a precautionary strike to thwart a rival candidate for Democratic national committeeman. They spirited away all the adding machines that would have been needed to compute the weighted vote the next day. The caper proved to be unnecessary, though. Working through the night, they mustered enough support for their own candidate, Basil A. Paterson.
At the 1976 national convention, Sarah Kovner, another liberal from the West Side, recalled, Mr. Ickes was instrumental in bringing the issue of amnesty for Vietnam draft resisters to the delegates' attention. He arranged to have a conscientious objector nominated for vice president and seconded by Ron Kovic, the wounded veteran depicted in the film "Born on the Fourth of July."
When convention officials insisted that they could not accommodate Mr. Kovic's wheelchair at the podium, Mr. Ickes exclaimed: "You did it for George Wallace. You can do it for him." They did.
 
Young Farmer and Cowboy
 Mr. Ickes is known for his political and legal acumen, the zeal and, often, the good humor with which he pursues every goal. Although his bark is usually bigger than his bite, at one argument he sunk his teeth into an adversary's leg. He once nearly hit a county leader. In 1965, a beating by three white men in Louisiana, where he was a civil rights advocate, cost him his left kidney.
Mr. Ickes, who lives in Manhattan with his wife, Laura Handman, also a lawyer, and their 5-year-old daughter, grew up on a farm in Maryland. He worked as a cowboy after graduating from high school; received a pilot's license in New Mexico; majored in economics at Stanford University, where he met Mr. Lowenstein, and graduated from the Columbia University Law School.
He worked in the Presidential efforts of Jimmy Carter, Eugene J. McCarthy, Mr. Jackson and Edward M. Kennedy and for other candidates, including Paul O'Dwyer, William Fitts Ryan and Robert F. Wagner Jr. What distinguished his latest foray was Mr. Clinton's early anointment by opinion polls and politicians as the candidate to beat.
 "I've never chosen a Presidential candidate because they were necessarily going to win," Mr. Ickes said. "But it doesn't hurt."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harold M. Ickes, director of Gov. Bill Clinton's Presidential effort in New York State, may disagree with the candidate on several issues, but says Mr. Clinton has the best chance of defeating President Bush. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LIBERALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (56%); 

PERSON: ICKES, HAROLD; ROBERTS, SAM; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); ICKES, HAROLD M (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) BILL CLINTON (93%); JESSE JACKSON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



340 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 45; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Becoming Rare Species: The American Trapper

BYLINE: By HAROLD FABER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SCHODACK, N.Y., Feb. 7

 BODY:
Before dawn the other day, Gerald Leggieri Jr. set out to inspect his traps on a farm here in rural southwestern Rensselaer County.
Mr. Leggieri had been invited in by a farmer who feared that coyotes were bothering his dairy cows. A part-time trapper, Mr. Leggieri is a high school teacher of history and economics by profession. 
 Wearing gloves to prevent human scent from contaminating his traps, Mr. Leggieri had scooped out a shallow hole in the ground in a natural path between two dormant hay fields. He set his traps in buckwheat hulls to keep the metal from freezing and then covered them with dirt. As a lure, he placed some glandular material from previously trapped coyotes nearby.
On his return, he found his steel leg-traps had caught two coyotes and a red fox. Using a .22-caliber handgun, he killed each animal with a shot to the head, took them home, skinned them and set the pelts out to dry.
Mr. Leggieri is one of a dwindling number of trappers in New York and the United States at a time when some are arguing that killing animals, especially by trapping, is cruel and unnecessary.
Trappers, wildlife biologists and fur dealers say that the decline in trapping is more a result of the recession than such opposition. They also argue that trappers -- and hunters -- help keep a balance in nature by keeping animal populations down to what the wilderness can support.
Whatever the reasons, the number of trappers, the price of pelts and the sales of fur garments are all down both in New York and the nation.
 
Trapping Licenses Down
 Last year, the state sold 11,513 trapping licenses to local residents, down from 14,713 in 1990 and 17,087 in 1989.
At the peak of the market, raccoon pelts were selling for as much as $50 to $60, with muskrats going for $6.50 to $8. Now, the price of a raccoon pelt is between $8 and $14 and muskrats from $2.50 to $3.50.
In addition, the number of fur-bearers trapped has declined, according to figures from the Department of Environmental Conservation.
In 1989, the last year for which figures are complete, the number of muskrats trapped dropped 46 percent to 193,000. The take of other animals dropped almost as much, raccoons to 65,000, opossums to 25,000, red foxes to 14,000, gray foxes to 6,000 mink to 13,000 and beaver to 17,000.
Even with these declines, the fur business -- from trapping and fur farming to the fashionable sales salons in New York and other big cities -- is a multibillion-dollar industry.
Although trapping dates to the colonization of America, today fur farms are major suppliers. In 1990, for example, 1,400 mink and fox farms in the United States produced 3.4 million mink pelts and 50,000 fox pelts worth $110 million.
William N. Outlaw, a spokesman for the Fur Information Council of America, which has its headquarters in Washington, estimated that retail sales of furs in 1989 were about $1.9 billion. He also said that sales of furs had declined about 25 percent during the current recession.
"Obviously people can put off buying furs when they have more pressing bills to pay," said Janice Henke, a spokeswoman for the National Fur Trappers Association.
 
'No Longer Fashionable'
 Anti-trapping organizations, though, say the drop is largely a result of their campaign against killing animals for what they call "frivolous reasons."
"Fur is no longer fashionable to people who have any kind of a heart," said Heidi Prescott, national outreach coordinator for the Fund for Animals, a nonprofit organization opposed to trapping and hunting. "We foresee the end of the fur industry in 10 years."
But Richard Leggett, president of the New York Trappers Association, thinks furs, and trapping, are making a comeback.
"There seems to be more interest in furs," he said. "Women who were hesitant to wear furs in public are now coming back. They are making a statement that wearing furs is all right."
 
Harvesting the Surplus
 A vice president of the Hudson City Savings Institution, a bank in Hudson, N.Y., Mr. Leggett is a part-time trapper. "I have been trapping ever since I was a boy, and now I am teaching trapping skills to my boy," he said.
Benjamin Tullar, a wildlife biologist for the Department of Environmental Conservation, defended trapping and hunting -- as "ecologically and economically sound."
"A harvestable surplus of fur-bearers is produced every year," he said. "If we don't use it, we lose it because the range can support only so many creatures. Other mortality factors will reduce the harvestable surplus if they are not hunted or trapped."
As in past years, mink, muskrat and raccoon are the most popular furs for coats and other apparel, with furs of darker hues more popular and expensive, according to Ms. Henke.
"The newest thing on the market is a mink-lined raincoat, full reversible, which sells for a few thousand dollars," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gerald Leggieri Jr. is one of a dwindling number of trappers in New York and the United States. A high school teacher who traps part time, he set a trap on a farm in rural southwestern Rensselaer County and, below, held pelts of a red fox, left, and coyote he trapped there. (David Jennings for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA TODAY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HUNTING AND TRAPPING; FUR; CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; PRICES; SALES MAMMALS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); FUR FARMING (89%); FUR APPAREL STORES (88%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); SPORT HUNTING (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); WILDLIFE (73%); ANIMAL WELFARE (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); BIOLOGY (66%); STATISTICS (65%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (57%); 

PERSON: FABER, HAROLD GERALD LEGGIERI JR (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



341 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 38; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Emigres Who Want to Assimilate Pick Co-op City

BYLINE: By MARIA NEWMAN

 BODY:
Three years ago Sasha and Mikhael Bzelyansky were working at a hospital in the Russian city of St. Petersburg. Now they are living an unusual experiment in immigrants' assimilation in a sprawling high-rise complex in the northern Bronx.
Scorning the traditional path of generations of immigrants who have clustered together in rough approximations of home like the Chinese in Chinatown, Italians in Little Italy and Russians in Brighton Beach, the Bzelyanskys and 24 other Jewish families from the former Soviet Union have settled in the decidedly polyglot Co-op City. 
 They chose Co-op City rather than Brighton Beach, they say, precisely because they do not want to be surrounded by restaurants that serve familiar foods, where the signs are written in the alphabet of their homeland and the tellers at the bank branches are from Russia.
"It is the reason we want to live in Co-op City, because we want to speak more and more English, because we have to know it," said Mrs. Bzelyansky.
Her husband agreed, saying, "I like very much the relationship between the different peoples here."
 
Slowed by Practical Problems
 With the help of the Metropolitan New York Coordinating Council on Jewish Poverty, which is offering interest-free mortgages, 250 Jewish families from the former Soviet Union will settle in Co-op City in the next two years. That 25 have moved in shows the difficulties in setting up the program, said Richard Lee, general counsel for the Riverbay Corporation, which runs Co-op City.
"Here we had these people coming in as immigrants, and some of them had no income," Mr. Lee said. "We had never even had mortgages before, so of course we had to go through all the procedures of setting up these loans."
There were logistical problems, too. With no one on the Co-op City staff who spoke Russian, it was difficult to show the units to the applicants, much less explain the mounds of paperwork that they had to fill out. The council hired a recent Russian immigrant, Vladimir Karodimov, as a resettlement worker to act as a liaison aide between the families and Co-op City.
Concern arose that the immigrants would receive preference over other groups that were not backed by an organization willing to find them money, Mr. Lee said. "There was a fear that this was a plan that was not racially or ethnically balanced," Mr. Lee said. "We overcame that hurdle by writing the rules and regulations that will allow any similar group to qualify, if they want to present a plan such as this one."
The sales have also been slowed by the care in selecting applicants. "We turn down about three families for every one that we select," the executive director of the council, David Cohen, said. "It's a very complex program, and we have to choose people who are going to repay these loans and who will be able to take care of their rents. Immigrants today are having a tough time."
Sixty to 70 percent of the adults who have moved in with the help of the program have found employment, Mr. Karodimov said. Because of their poor English language skills and the recession, others are having difficulty finding work, he said.
But most of those making new lives at Co-op City are willing to deal with the challenges, Mr. Karodimov said, adding: "It would be easier to live somewhere else. But everybody who is here is saying that they came here because they wanted to adjust to life as soon as possible."
The families in the program cite the affordability of Co-op City, where a three-bedroom apartment costs $17,000, in addition to a monthly maintenance fee, which varies according to incomes and other factors. The families also were lured by the cleanliness and relatively low crime rate of the complex, which has its own security force.
Some families say the high-rise apartment houses remind them of typical housing in Moscow and other Russian cities.
The emigres include people of all ages, though most are young couples with small children. In the former Soviet Union they had been sheet-metal workers, doctors and homemakers.
At Co-op City, 65,000 people live in 15,372 apartments in 35 towers. When the complex opened 22 years ago, it became a haven for Jewish families, many of whom were fleeing the South Bronx, which was changing as new groups moved in. Now about half of the population of the complex is white, with blacks making up 30 percent and Hispanic people 20 percent, according to the 1990 Census.
Jews are 8 percent, said Arnold Eisen, executive vice president of the Bronx Jewish Community Council. That attracts the immigrants, he said, rather than putting them off. "Not everyone wants to live in a ghettoized population of say, a Brighton Beach, or Odessa by the Sea, if you will," Mr. Eisen added.
Leonid Yakobson and his wife, Alla, arrived in the United States more than two years ago, after having tried to emigrate for about 10 years. Their daughter Regina, 14 months old, was born in New York, and one month ago the family moved into a one-bedroom apartment at Co-op City. The Yakobsons had lived in Brighton Beach, which is home to about 100,000 Soviet immigrants, and also in the Pelham Parkway area of the Bronx, a much smaller Russian community. But they say they prefer Co-op City.
 
'Be a Regular Citizen'
 Mr. Yakobson, a doctor and speech therapist in Kiev, Ukraine, is learning English, which he speaks haltingly but determinedly. His wife is also studying English, but she is shyer about speaking it. Both say the best way to adapt is to immerse themselves in the vast community of Co-op City.
A friend, Mikhael Stotland, who dropped by their apartment to tell the couple that a mutual friend in Kiev had received permission to travel to the United States, agreed with them about the need to adjust quickly. "If you want to live in America, you have to speak the language and be a regular citizen," he said. "What's happened in the Russian community is that the people don't speak English. They don't have to."
But they and other Russian Jewish families said their desire to live outside an immigrant community did not mean that they wanted to shed their culture and language. "There is nothing wrong to keep your native language," Mr. Yakobson said.
Another emigre family at Co-op City, Aleksandr and Victoria Shirin, who left Latvia less than a year ago, do not let their son Konstantin, 9, speak to their daughter Maria, 1 1/2, in English. "I make him read in Russian for about a half-hour every day, and I force him to write letters to my mother in Russian," Mrs. Shirin said. "I don't want him to forget, and I want her to learn Russian."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Victoria and Aleksandr Shirin and their children are among the 25 Jewish families from the former Soviet Union that have settled in the polyglot Co-op City rather than in areas where immigrants have clustered in approximations of home. Mr. Shirin played the piano as the family gathered on the sofa; Konstantin Shirin is forced by his parents to read Russian every day, to write letters in Russian and to speak to his sister in Russian, so he does not forget his culture and language. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN NEW YORK COORDINATING COUNCIL ON JEWISH POVERTY RIVERBAY CORP (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN NEW YORK COORDINATING COUNCIL ON JEWISH POVERTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; CO-OP CITY (BRONX); BRIGHTON BEACH (NYC) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SOVIET JEWS; COOPERATIVES JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (76%); RESTAURANTS (69%); BANK BRANCHES (54%); LAWYERS (50%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, MARIA RICHARD LEE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



342 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 8; Page 13; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: BOXING;
Holmes Manages to Pull a Triumph Out of His Hat

BYLINE: By PHIL BERGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY, Feb. 8

 BODY:
In the beginning, Larry Holmes was nervous and his moves tentative. A look of high anxiety flickered across his face. In the Convention Center ring Friday night, he fought like -- well, a 42-year-old grandfather.
In those early minutes of the match, Holmes's opponent, 30-year-old Ray Mercer, reacted to his punches as though they were a mere distraction, with no more impact than what might land on him in a pillow fight. 
 Mercer, a gold medalist at the 1988 Olympics, kept walking forward with the assurance of a hit man, throwing clubbing punches and sending Holmes reeling in the first round with a mere jab.
But before the 12-round nontitle heavyweight bout ended, Mercer would lose that swagger and end up looking like an upright perplexity, a fighter caught up in Holmes's great bamboozle.
For while Holmes struck with punches, it was gamesmanship -- the creaking art of self-defense -- that kept him in the fight and he ended with a shocking unanimous decision.
 
Sparing the Legs
 Holmes, the underdog, showed Mercer a little of this and a little of that. For several rounds, Holmes used a variant of the rope-a-dope, planting his back against the ropes to spare his old legs their labor while muffling Mercer's punches and whacking the occasional combination off Mercer's head.
He bluffed, he conned, he talked to the other man. Once, in Mercer's corner, Holmes even turned to the television camera there and twice addressed it, before wheeling and hitting Mercer.
Holmes did what he had to. His punches never appeared to pain Mercer, but his tactics eventually discouraged him and left Mercer lunging amateurishly to land punches. Mercer simply could not figure a way through Holmes's defense.
Holmes, who held the heavyweight title from 1978 to 1985, was using his longer reach by placing his glove on the top of Mercer's head and simply holding him off. He clinched, he posed, he even wiggled his hips to show that, even if he is 42, he is still Larry Holmes, fierce enough to beat a young pretender.
Holmes won with guile more than with firepower. It wasn't photogenic. It wasn't the balletic art of Muhammad Ali. It was an old fighter with surivival tactics who was able to break down a tough but unsophisticated pug and do it with an amazing economy.
 
Crowd Involvement
 A computer punch count had Mercer throwing 657 punches, compared with 491 for Holmes. But Holmes landed 336 of his 491, or 68.4 percent, while Mercer managed to connect on 247 of 657 for 37.6 percent.
It didn't take long for the Convention Center crowd to realize what Holmes, who has two grandchildren, was doing. They began to chant "Lar-ry, Lar-ry, Lar-ry" in support of the former champion.
As Mercer said afterward, "When you're 42 and it's close, maybe you should get it."
In fact, it wasn't as close as Mercer reckoned. Judges Phil Newman (117-112), Eugene Grant (117-111) and John Poturaj (115-113) all had it for Holmes.
Newman said afterward: "Too smart. Larry did everything he wanted."
Holmes?
"You're only as old as you feel and live," he said at the post-fight news conference.
 
Damage Is Assessed
 While Holmes conceded that Mercer landed punches that hurt, he put the damage in context. "I've been hit harder," he said, "but I was younger."
Holmes, who weighed 233 pounds, has a record of 54-3, with 37 knockouts. Mercer, who weighed 228 3/4 pounds, lost for the first time in 19 fights.
"I fought the best I could," said Mercer. "Larry's defense was one I wasn't accustomed to."
Mercer said that Holmes's elbows caused damage to his right bicep about midway through the fight and diminished his big punch, the right hand.
"But the better man won tonight," he said.
Holmes made just over $1 million, and Mercer got $1.2 million. Holmes said his objective was to get a title fight before the year was out. But it remains to be seen if there is a Holmes in the immediate future of Evander Holyfield, the undisputed heavyweight champion. If not, Holmes could end up in the ring against another 40-something marvel, George Foreman.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Larry Holmes, right, throwing a punch at Ray Mercer during their 12-round heavyweight fight Friday night in Atlantic City. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: BOXING; HEAVYWEIGHT BOXING (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); OLYMPICS (70%); 

PERSON: BERGER, PHIL; HOLMES, LARRY; MERCER, RAY MUHAMMAD ALI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



343 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Magic Plays This Game For History

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla.

 BODY:
PUT simply, there has never been an event in American sports quite like what awaits us here this afternoon.
That son of the electronic age, Magic Johnson, has put this moment in terms of an MTV hit single: "It may be my last game. My V.C.R. will be working, so I can pop it in for my son or daughter, to see me playing with all these All-Stars." 
 Magic's Greatest Hits. The Farewell All-Star Game. He always knew he was a performer, in ways that athletes of the more stolid past could not yet understand.
Lou Gehrig, stricken with a disease that would eventually bear his name in grim tribute, knew he had a debt to the public when he stood in Yankee Stadium and proclaimed himself "the luckiest man on the face of the earth."
But handheld V.C.R.'s did not exist in the black-and-white time of 1939. Gary Cooper eventually played Lou Gehrig in the movies, stoic and stumbling, uncomfortable with the awkward emotions of farewell.
Magic Johnson, from this Technicolor era, believes it is cool to play himself with smiles and hugs. Perhaps the enormity of his forced retirement has not yet really hit him. Or maybe he is as sunny and brave as he seems.
Either way, the cameras will be rolling today when Magic Johnson, poleaxed by H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, starts in the National Basketball Association All-Star Game, to be televised to Kazakhstan, Nicaragua, Singapore, Zimbabwe, more than 90 countries.
It is not exaggerating to say that no athlete has ever felt so much personal support, so much love, when he went into a game, whether it was a championship match or a farewell ceremony or even a glittery all-star game.
Other athletes have felt an entire region behind them. At the Olympic Games, athletes know their own country is rooting for them. In every World Cup, Pele knew that many countries that love joyful soccer were rooting for Brazil. And Muhammad Ali preached the reality that whole swaths of the earth were rooting for him.
But no matter the politics of the moment, there always was an opponent of considerable stature and skill: Max Schmeling, the old Soviet Union, the New York Yankees, the Oakland Raiders, Hulk Hogan or Sgt. Slaughter. Nobody roots for H.I.V.
We all play our games against time. All seasons end. But Earvin Johnson has been given a shortened schedule, by how many years nobody knows, and he has been given an uncharted corridor of beaming good health.
It is hard to be maudlin about this game. Like any good performer, Magic Johnson holds out the possibility of an extended farewell tour. He is still maintaining he will play in the Summer Games in Barcelona, Spain, and he is now thinking out loud about joining the Lakers late in the season, for the playoffs.
But today is the only day he knows he has. Like Tom Sawyer, believed to have drowned, sneaking into the back of the church and attending his own funeral, Magic Johnson gets to play at what will be a tribute to him.
By virtue of the lead time needed for computerized all-star ballots, Johnson's name was engraved on punch cards weeks before his illness was diagnosed last fall. The fans saw his name, and they remembered the big smile and the dramatic passes slashing at diagonals, and they punched his name on their cards.
Some players and members of the press worried about whether they could catch the thing if Magic happened to bleed on them. But David Stern, who spent the 80's trying to teach sports economics to knucklenoses like me, produced four -- count 'em, four -- AIDS experts here for anybody who had not done his homework.
Magic Johnson conducted his own news conference, playing all the positions, as he has done on the court. Beaming, like the sun, he promised a good show today.
Farewell games can be classics. Ted Williams slugged a home run into a gale in his last at-bat Fenway Park, and never cracked a smile. The best farewell I ever saw was for Carlos Alberto, the wily old Brazilian, playing half a game for the Cosmos and half a game for his old club, and then, near midnight, jogging around Giants Stadium while the public-address played Carly Simon's "Nobody Does It Better."
But Carlos Alberto's only weakness was getting old. Magic Johnson has something worse than athletic old age. Other athletes receive golf clubs and cars and electronic gadgets when they retire. Magic Johnson receives love, from his peers and from the world. He deserves no less.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Magic Johnson (Ben Van Hook)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN); ALL-STAR GAMES

TICKER: FUND (NASDAQ) (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (90%); KAZAKHSTAN (78%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (72%); NEW YORK, USA (51%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN (NBA) ALL SEASONS GLOBAL (51%); ORLANDO MAGIC (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (82%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN (NBA) ORLANDO MAGIC (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (82%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (90%); KAZAKHSTAN (78%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (72%); NEW YORK, USA (51%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS) AIDS & HIV (91%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); BASEBALL (89%); OLYMPICS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (77%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); SOCCER (72%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (69%); VIRUSES (69%); 

PERSON: VECSEY, GEORGE; JOHNSON, EARVIN (MAGIC) MUHAMMAD ALI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



344 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Crown Jewels at Risk

 BODY:
A 72-foot luxury yacht outfitted with a jacuzzi. A 19th-century Italian fruitwood commode. Expensive flowers. Travel to vacation resorts.
Camera shots from an episode of "Life Styles of the Rich and Famous"? Not quite. These items were bought by universities with Federal money provided to support research. A House subcommittee, chaired by John Dingell, has unearthed a seeming billion-dollar cesspool of mischarges and overcharges at Stanford University, M.I.T., Yale and other universities. 
 The committee has fingered stupefying carelessness by university officials and Government auditors but, as yet, no venality. The dogged investigations have already produced hefty dividends: embarrassed universities have remitted millions and are adopting modern accounting systems that will save taxpayers millions more. Had matters stopped here, Mr. Dingell would be a hero.
But he hasn't stopped. Instead, he's unleashed forces that threaten to do unspeakable damage to the nation's leading universities. Government auditors, humiliated during Congressional hearings, now seek to make amends by acting tough. They recommend ripping up valid contracts to make Stanford repay an astonishing $200 million or more and M.I.T. at least $19 million.
Yes, Stanford violated regulations -- presumably inadvertently -- when it billed the Government for upkeep on a yacht. And, yes, Stanford abused its right to pass on legitimate entertainment expenses. But the cost of such improprieties is a pittance -- a fraction of 1 percent of research monies.
By twisting minor indiscretion into a broadside indictment of scores of universities, Mr. Dingell and Government auditors threaten to destroy the crown jewels of the economy. Taxpayers haven't wasted money on university research; it's the best investment taxpayers can ever make in America's future.
Congress agreed more than four decades ago to reimburse universities for not only direct costs of sponsored research -- salaries and test tubes -- but also indirect costs. These are overhead expenses -- the costs of running libraries and computer centers, the heating plant and other facilities that serve the entire university, not just research labs.
To determine indirect costs, universities add up their total overhead expenses and pass along an agreed-upon share to the Government. Overhead costs related to the research labs aren't always separated from those that support classrooms because the attempt to do so would be prohibitively expensive and the outcome arbitrary. Instead, the Government's share is designed, roughly, to equal what it would probably pay if purely research overhead could be isolated.
The Government might agree, for example, to pay 25 percent of all library acquisitions. Critics of the system might wonder why taxpayers are paying 25 percent of the cost of "The Catcher in the Rye" just as they question why taxpayers help furnish the President's house. But they forget that taxpayers avoid picking up 75 percent of the cost of advanced physics journals.
If the system works right, taxpayers pay a fair share. Unfortunately, the system is ripe for abuse because it is hard to draw lines between legitimate overhead and extravagance. If a $1,200 commode is too lavish to include for cost recovery, is $500 also too steep? The regulations don't say.
Yet all the yachts and commodes Stanford ever bought don't amount to very much. Stanford has already agreed to pay back a few million for the questionable items.
What the auditors have in mind is far more insidious. They want to mail Stanford a bill of about $200 million for ordinary overhead reimbursements (not flowers and yachts) it received under contracts the Government signed in the 1980's. The auditors now claim those contracts are inequitable to taxpayers and, therefore, unenforceable.
That claim is outrageous. If the Government doesn't like contracts it signed, it should renegotiate them when they come due -- and fire the officials who originally signed them. Surely it's wrong to break a contract unilaterally, thereby threatening to undermine vital research facilities.
Mr. Dingell exposed incompetence and abuse. But if the Government turns vindictive, it will destroy the foundation of America's technological edge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (93%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (93%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; RESEARCH; EDITORIALS; CONTRACTS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); RESORTS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INDICTMENTS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); 

PERSON: DINGELL, JOHN D (REPR) JOHN DINGELL (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



345 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1807 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary

BYLINE: By Joel Kurtzman

 BODY:

ECONOMY
 
Mr. Bush on Health Care 

You don't have to be a genius to figure out that something major is wrong with the health care system. It consumes a massive 13 percent of gross domestic product but leaves 35 million people without insurance. Last week, President Bush offered a plan to fix things up. Lightweight, said critics. The plan calls for cutting the waste out of Medicare and Medicaid, but doesn't specify how. It proposes a cap on malpractice awards, but doesn't say how much. It would provide vouchers worth up to $3,750 to poor families to buy insurance, but makes no assurance that that will be enough. "The plus is we've now got a mainstream consensus that the government must deal with health care," said Joseph Califano, former Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare. Consensus or not, he said, "there is no more chance of passing a major health care reform bill this year than of putting an elephant through a keyhole"
 
And Still, There Are No Jobs
 
The recovery's sails may be up, but no wind is blowing. This slump is now 18 months old with no signs of abating. That's especially true for jobs. According to the Labor Department, unemployment remained stuck at 7.1 percent in January, the same level as December and the highest rate since 1984. The results would have been even worse had 400,000 people who wanted full-time jobs not found part-time work. "Let's not kid ourselves. The economy is declining," said Allen Sinai, of the Boston Company. "The figures indicate negative G.D.P. in the first quarter of about 8 tenths of 1 percent. It's a rough bounce to the bottom."

The Ever-Adaptable Fed
 
Back when Cadillacs still had tail fins, Representative Wright Patman, the Texas populist, thought the Federal Reserve was too darn independent for the nation's good. It didn't give a hoot about economic growth, he said, only inflation. So Mr. Patman tried but failed to shut it down. If only he could see it now. With election fever gripping Washington and the bond market skittish, Fed chairman Alan Greenspan is talking like a politician. He said last week he was not opposed to lowering interest rates further if that was needed to lift the economy off the rocks. "Back in December Mr. Greenspan said no one will blame him for the loss of their office or for the loss of the White House," said Allan Meltzer, a professor of economics at Carnegie Mellon University. "Then in January he said he'd ease rates enough to let the economy recover." That would even make Mr. Patman happy.

Treasury's Short-Term Token
 
Economists call it the preferred-habitat argument. It's a fancy way of saying money moves where investors are best able to get the results they want. That's why depositors switch banks when terms and rates change. But the Treasury has decided to take on the theory. With short-term rates far lower than long-term rates, it said last week it would reduce the amount of 30-year bonds it sells to $10 billion from $12 billion and make up the difference with more 3-year and 10-year bonds. That would save it $55 million in interest payments. But will investors bite? "The original talk was of eliminating the 30-year bond," said Samuel D. Kahan, chief economist at Fuji Securities in Chicago. But the $2 billion shift "is just a token amount."

A Little Zip in Car Sales
 
After running on fumes for more than a year, Detroit finally has its pedal near the metal. Sales of domestically built cars and light trucks are still pretty flat -- but they rose 11.1 percent in late January.

Recession? Talk to Iraq
 
Last week, George Bush's economic advisers submitted the President's Annual Economic Report to Congress. The report said the sluggish economy would probably pick up a little steam in the next few months and finish the year 1.6 percent ahead of last year. But this year's report stepped a little further into the realm of politics than it usually does. If Congress follows the President's plans, growth will climb to 2.2 percent, it said. And the report chose its enemies carefully. Mr. Bush was not responsible for the recession. It was Saddam Hussein of Iraq who caused it. Had the Persian Gulf War not occurred, the economy would be purring. Perhaps that's why Mr. Bush sent Robert M. Gates, director of the Central Intelligence Agency, to the Mideast. Mr. Gates's mission, it is rumored, is to seek support for ousting Mr. Hussein.
 
Priority to the Ozone
 
The greatest obstacles to speeding up the phase-out of ozone-depleting chemicals were a lack of scientific evidence and John H. Sununu, the former White House chief of staff. Mr. Sununu, of course, is gone, and last week new evidence was released that dangerous holes in the ozone layer were opening up over North America. That was enough for the White House. It now supports a Senate proposal to phase out the offending chemicals before the original goal of the year 2000.

 
 
COMPANIES


Federated Is Back
 
Too often, the next step after Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code is the corporate boneyard. But Federated Department Stores Inc., was able to avoid that final resting place. Last week it emerged after two years in court with an offering of 24 million shares of stock that were quickly snatched up by investors. Federated, owner of the Bloomingdale's, Abraham & Strauss and Burdine retail chains, was the $10 billion pipe dream of Canadian developer Robert Campeau. Federated shed 42 stores (it still has 223) and worked out a deal for banks, bondholders and suppliers to forgive about $3 billion in debt in exchange for about $2 billion in Federated stock.

Ringing It Up in Video Rentals
 
One industry has been doing nicely in this recession, thank you very much. Video rentals. According to Alexander & Associates, an industry consultant, movie rentals are at an all-time high -- 106.6 million of them were checked out in the first week of January -- a record. How many of those rentals, do you suppose, were returned rewound?

NBC Nods Off on Thursday
 
More people veg out watching TV on Thursday night than any other night. That means money for the networks -- especially NBC, which dominated the evening with shows like "Cheers," "Cosby" and "L.A. Law." But these shows are getting, well, tired. Last week "Cheers," NBC's highest-rated show, slipped to fourth place from first. "Cosby" and "L.A. Law," fell as well, prompting some critics to wonder what the peacock is up to. "It's sliding," said Jib Fowles, author of "Why Viewers Watch." As he said, "G.E., NBC's parent, doesn't understand TV." NBC should freshen up its lineup, he said.

When the Sony Corporation bought Columbia Pictures and Tri star, and Matsushita Electric Industrial Company bought Universal, critics asked whether these studios would be free to portray Japanese culture as they wished. "No problem," said the acquirers. But then "Hell Camp," a Tristar film about Americans living in Japan was cancelled. Rumors spread through Hollywood that it was killed due to pressure on Sony from Japan's Sumo Association which did not like the way its sport would be portrayed. Tristar denied it. It stopped the project on its own, it said. "Any suggestions that the Sony Corporation has interfered in the creative process or any other aspect of 'Hell Camp' or any other Tristar Pictures project is simply wrong," said Mike Medavoy, chairman of Tristar. Last year, "Mr. Baseball," produced by Universal, about an American living in Japan, had its script rewritten to portray the Japanese in a more favorable light. Criticism flared, but Universal said it had not been pressured by Tokyo.

Unbundling Over Optima
 
The American Express Company once could do no wrong. Then it brought out the Optima Card. Profits at its travel related division dropped 59 percent. It was forced to set aside $265 million against defaults on the credit card. To raise cash, American Express announced last week it was selling off up to 45 percent of its Information Services Corporation, which processess Visa and Mastercard as well as its own cards. Analysts thought the offering might raise up to $800 million for Amex. Is Amex hurting? "This is selling the silverware," said John Keefe, an analyst at Lipper Analytical Services, "They're not really starving for capital at this point, but they're getting a little hungry."
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL

 
What's With the Slurs?
 
Japan is known as a nation that values harmony -- which it calls wa -- in all of its business relations. Politeness is a high form of art. But apparently that does not carry over into its relations with the United States. It seems that Japan's most important politicians are lining up to call Americans, well, lazy. Last month, it was Yoshio Sakurauchi, speaker of the lower house of Parliament, who said Americans were lazy. Then, last week, it was Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa, who said Americans "may lack the work ethic," which was, after all, another way of saying Americans are lazy. True, Americans work a few hours less each week than the Japanese do, but the Japanse Labor Ministry itself says Americans are still a tad more productive. Not only that, but the evidence is that the Japanese themselves, if not becoming exactly lazy, are slowly lightening up. Japanese workers are putting in one hour less each week than they did 10 years ago.

Mazda in the U.S.A.
 
For the first time, the Mazda Motor Corporation will be assembling a car in the United State that has enough American content to be classified as a domestic make. The car -- a new 626 model -- has 75 percent of its parts coming from companies operating in the United States. Its glass, paint, tires and electronics are all made here -- some by American companies, some by Japanese transplants operating in the United States. The only parts that are imported from Japan are the engine and transmission. In other words, the most expensive parts.

A Dinosaur Named Cocom
 
America's cold war policy was based on the idea of containment. Keep the Soviet Union huddled within its borders and away from the West's high-tech goodies. To keep Moscow away from such exotica as Macintosh computers and old-fashioned PC's -- the Paris-based Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls was set up. Its members include America's World War II allies (except the Soviet Union, of course) plus Germany and Japan. But is Cocom still needed? Most of corporate America doesn't think so. Neither does much of Europe. Last week, Germany, the Netherlands and Italy introduced a proposal aimed at removing most products from Cocom's list. "The cold war is over," said Eric L. Hirschorn, a lawyer who represents American computer makers. "Why is is over everywhere but in Cocom?"

CORRECTION-DATE: February 23, 1992, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Business Diary column on Feb. 9 about the American Express Company misstated the activities of its Information Services Corporation. The corporation processes Visa and Mastercard transactions only, not American Express card transactions.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kirstie Alley of Cheers; Kiichi Miyazawa (Agence France-Presse); President George Bush (Associated Press); Sumo wrestler
 
Graphs track annual selling rate for cars made in the U.S., Jan.1991-Jan. 1992 (Source: Company reports); civilian unemployment rate, Jan. 1991-Jan. 1992 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON CO INC (66%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); POOR POPULATION (79%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MEDICARE (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); MEDICAID (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); BONDS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



346 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 7; Page 21; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Saving Ourselves

BYLINE: By Gina Maranto; Gina Maranto writes about the environment for Discover magazine and other publications.

 BODY:

EARTH IN THE BALANCE
Ecology and the Human Spirit.
By Al Gore.
Illustrated. 407 pp. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin Company.
$22.95. 
 DURING his 15-year tenure in Congress, Senator Al Gore, Democrat of Tennessee, has made an intensive study of environmental issues. The results, as displayed in "Earth in the Balance," a comprehensive assessment of the forces of planetary destruction -- including overpopulation, deforestation, soil erosion and air and water pollution -- are impressive.
Senator Gore presents even familiar materials in fresh and compelling fashion, drawing from the work of such diverse thinkers as the critic Walter Benjamin, the climate historian Hubert H. Lamb and the physicists Per Bak and Kan Chen.
Now that the cold war is over, he argues, the central strategic threat is that presented by humans to the global environment. In this context, he rethinks the world's industrial and financial arrangements and proposes a "Global Marshall Plan" for the environment.
His recommendations are far-reaching and specific -- for example, to redefine gross national product to account for the ecological costs of growth, or to design tree-planting programs to insure that seedlings are nursed through the first year of growth.
The author exhibits little of the cliched myopia of his profession and is aware of the political obstacles posed by such an integrated approach.
He identifies the root of our current problems as spiritual. If civilization is to persist, he maintains, it must make the rescue of the environment its organizing principle.
His colleagues on Capitol Hill, for starters, should read this perspicacious, heartening book and harken to its message.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: EARTH IN THE BALANCE (BOOK)

TICKER: HTN (NYSE) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: HOUGHTON MIFFLIN HARCOURT PUBLISHING CO (92%); MARSHALL PLAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (74%); DEFORESTATION (73%); HISTORY (72%); EROSION (71%); PHYSICS (69%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); WRITERS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (53%); 

PERSON: MARANTO, GINA; GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN) AL GORE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



347 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 18; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: No Silver Lining for Debt Collectors

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

 BODY:
DO hard times mean good times for some industries? For instance, as more businesses and individuals fall behind in paying their bills, do collection agencies benefit?
Those in the debt-collection industry in Westchester say that although their business has increased substantially, their profits have not. 
 "We have seen about an 80 percent increase in the number of accounts over the last year, but at the same time our collectors are working much harder to collect less, about 60 percent of what they were getting from debtors three years ago," said Lynn Starace, president of Trans Credit America, a medical collection agency in Hartsdale, which collects overdue bills from the patients of doctors and dentists.
"People are pretty strapped," Ms. Starace said. "Patients who might have agreed to pay $200 a month on an outstanding bill two years ago are now able to come up with only $50 a month."
Herbert S. Jacobson, president of Berson Associates in White Plains, has been handling commercial accounts -- businesses owing money to businesses -- for 40 years. Almost all of Mr. Jacobson's clients are in the construction industry, and, he said, that industry is experiencing very difficult times.
"Our customers, who are manufacturers and suppliers of building materials, are giving us listings of customers behind in their payments earlier now. One hundred and eighty days used to be the average; now they give us accounts up for collection in 120 to 150 days."
 
25 to 35 Percent Commission
 Mr. Jacobson's agency, typical of all collection agencies, works on a 25 to 35 percent commission.
"If we don't collect our clients' bills, we don't get a penny," he said, "and our collectors are taught that the best way to go about collecting is not by intimidation but by using their good common sense. The most important thing is to deal with people understandingly. If we find an account is impossible to collect, then we will try to work out a reasonable plan of payment. The last thing we want to do is to push anyone beyond their limit, into bankruptcy."
Therefore, Mr. Jacobson said, when a debtor, a subcontractor who owed a supplier several thousand dollars for lumber, "showed a willingness to pay but was pretty stretched, we worked with him on a payment schedule that extended over a reasonable period of time and took it back to our client for his approval.
"Ninety-nine percent of them will agree to such an arrangement because nobody wants to force anyone out of business. When that happens, everyone loses."
Mr. Jacobson, who is 62 years old, acknowledged that the industry has gone through many changes since he entered it 40 years ago.
"Then, debt collectors had a pretty bad image," he said. "Today the industry is more professional and better understood. We have a trade group that sets standards and educates our members. Also, laws have been passed regulating the way collection agencies do business, and those have helped our reputation with the public."
Under the 1977 Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, administered by the Federal Trade Commission, collectors are prohibited from harassing debtors, lying to them or making threatening phone calls. Collectors are also required to keep all correspondence and conversations with debtors private and confidential.
 
'I Was Good at Dealing With People'
 Mr. Jacobson, who said he became a part-time bill collector to support himself while he was in college, added: "I found I was good at dealing with people, which is what collecting bills is all about.
"And after graduation when the agency I was working for offered me a full-time job I gave up the idea of becoming a radio or television performer and went to work for them before I opened my own agency 10 years later."
Mr. Jacobson added that although his agency has had fewer accounts this year, his staff has been making collections faster.
"What is happening is that those people still in business want to stay in business," he said. "Frequently a debtor we deal with turns around and becomes a customer of ours."
Large commercial accounts, those larger than $20,000, are easier to collect, said John Casabianca, president of Trend Credit in New Rochelle. "It's because that type of debtor wants to stay in business," he said.
Mr. Casabianca, who specializes in collections from retail businesses that include large department stores, said: "We just collected $16,000 for a manufacturer client of ours, from the debtor, a large retail store. But smaller accounts are much more difficult to collect right now."
 
New Sources of Business
 The reason, he said, is that collection agencies can still manage to get payment arrangements from retailers that have been in business for more than five years. But agencies trying to collect from retailers that bought small stores within the last three years have an almost impossible task.
"Take the owner of a neighborhood stationery store," Mr. Casabianca said. "He bought the store two years ago, and already it has decreased in value. He has no equity in it to borrow against and, what's more, he is being further squeezed by the payments he owes to the previous owner. In such a case, it is almost impossible to collect debts."
Mr. Casabianca, who has been in the debt-collection business for 15 years, said, however, that the recession has opened up a new source of business for him.
"Like everyone else, my clients are having to let people go. For the first time some of them are putting our collection agency on a retainer, to replace what were formerly in-house collection departments. We not only monitor their accounts, we reconcile outstanding receivables and we photostat invoices and visit debtors and try to get them put on a repayment schedule."
 
New Strategies Developed
 But if the word on the street is that the debtor retailer is in trouble and about to shut down, as Mr. Casabianca said is happening with increasing frequency, then he advises his client to take "whatever he can get, even if it's only 50 percent of what he is owed. Fifty percent is still better than nothing."
Ms. Starace said that in order to deal with the current recession, which has made it harder for collection agencies to collect, the agencies have had to develop some new strategies to keep profitable.
"For us, it has been building volume," she said. "In order to do so we started what I call a pre-collect service. For $9.95, we will send a series of five letters to patients of our clients who have accounts that are 120-270 days overdue."
The first letter, Ms. Starace said, establishes contact and asks the patient to call the doctor's office about the bill. The last letter warns, "If you don't reply to the doctor's office within 10 days, your account will be turned over to a collection agency."
 
'Some People Are Really Deadbeats'
 The pre-collect mailings, Ms. Starace said, have gone out to thousands of patients.
"Sixty-five percent of those who get the letters pay the entire bill," she said. "But the collections from the others, which are handled on a contingency basis by our collection agency, run only about 25 percent. Some people are really deadbeats."
Ira S. Clair, a lawyer in Scarsdale who does collection work, also sends out letters on behalf of clients.
"If clients are owed less than $1,000, I'll send -- for a very nominal charge of $25 to $50 -- a lawyer's letter threatening to sue the debtor. And often it brings the desired results -- payment," Mr. Clair said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen Jacobson, an employee at Berson Associates in White Plains, a collection agency, as he arrived at the office of a company that owed money to his client. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT PERSONAL DEBT (90%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (90%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONSTRUCTION TRADE (77%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (71%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS MFG (66%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY HERBERT S JACOBSON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



348 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1992

SECTION: Section 7; Page 1; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 2616 words

HEADLINE: Is Japan Out to Get Us?

BYLINE: By Robert B. Reich; Robert B. Reich's most recent book is "The Work of Nations." He teaches political economy at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government.

 BODY:
"WE are definitely at war with Japan," says John Connor, the venerable detective in Michael Crichton's "Rising Sun," as he guides his junior officer through the intricate web of Japan's evil conspiracy to take over America. Here is the latest, and least subtle, of a great tide of recent books demonizing the Japanese. Almost all are classified as nonfiction; a few, like "Rising Sun," as fiction. But in this genre the distinction blurs. Mr. Crichton's characters frequently deliver short lectures on the subject of Japan's insidious design, mixing established fact with fantasy. The result is a thriller that doubles as a crude polemic. Just in case the reader misses his point, Mr. Crichton warns in an afterword of Japan's "adversarial trade, trade like war, trade intended to wipe out the competition," and encourages readers to verify the claims his characters make by consulting several recent works of nonfiction, which he lists.
But the nonfiction books Mr. Crichton cites also tend to mix factual analyses of Japan's economic strength with hyperbolic visions of Japan's plot to run the United States. High on the list is "Agents of Influence" (1990) by Pat Choate, which is partly a thoughtful examination of influence peddling by all large corporations, but also partly a paranoid fantasy about Tokyo's alleged payoffs to influential Americans to achieve "effective political domination over the United States." 
 Another is "Trading Places" (1988) by Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr. -- a useful and detailed chronicle of the frustrations of negotiating trade with Japan, leading to an implausible and unsupported argument that because of our failure to respond adequately to the Japanese challenge, "the power of the United States and the quality of American life is diminishing rapidly in every respect."
A third is "The Enigma of Japanese Power" (1989) by Karel van Wolferen. It combines an insightful analysis of Japan's governing structure with a stereotyped and ahistorical view of Japan as a rudderless, amoral society "in which good behavior is constantly determined by individuals' views of how others expect them to behave . . . and in which conformity to social expectations is not an unfortunate compromise but the only possible way to live."
MR. CRICHTON might have added many other recent works to his list, books that similarly blend fiction and nonfiction as they conjure up a Japan intent on controlling America: William S. Dietrich's "In the Shadow of the Rising Sun" (1991), claiming that Japan "threatens our way of life and ultimately our freedoms as much as past dangers from Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union"; Robert Zielinski and Nigel Holloway's "Unequal Equities" (1991), arguing that Japan's big corporations have rigged their capital markets in ways that undermine American corporations; Daniel Burstein's "Yen! Japan's New Financial Empire and Its Threat to America" (1988), asserting that Japan's growing control over our financial markets puts the United States at risk of falling prey to a "hostile Japanese . . . world order"; and William J. Holstein's "Japanese Power Game" (1990), contending that Japan is motivated by raw power and parochialism, which threaten the United States. I have located over 35 recent books in this genre -- many with bellicose titles like "The Coming War With Japan," "Zaibatsu America: How Japanese Firms are Colonizing Vital U.S. Industries," "The Silent War," "Trade Wars" and so on.
There are several possible explanations for this outpouring, but Japan's recent behavior is not one. Japan still has a long way to go before its economy is truly open, and it can be (and should be) faulted on many grounds, but the big story since the mid-1980's is how far Japan has come in so short a time from its protectionist ways of the 1960's and 1970's. By 1990, Japan was the world's third-largest importer with each Japanese citizen purchasing, on average, about $1,900 worth of imports -- not much less than the average American's purchase of $2,050 of imported products. Japanese imports of manufactured goods have climbed steeply, from less than a quarter of the total in 1980 to over 60 percent last year -- including many high-tech items like space satellites and telecommunications equipment. Since 1985, manufactured exports from the United States to Japan have almost doubled.
Nor do Japanese investments in the United States suggest a conspiracy. For the most part, those investments have been big losers, which is one reason why Japan is cutting back on them. The Treasury bills the Japanese have liked to acquire have declined in value as the dollar has dropped since 1985; the prices of real estate, another Japanese favorite, have fallen since 1989. Only a tiny portion of Japan's total investment has gone to successful American companies; more has been directed at relatively unsuccessful companies in Rust Belt industries like tires and steel. Other investments have taken the form of new factories, where American workers are learning to become more productive and create higher-quality goods than in many American-owned factories.
It is hard to find much of a plot in any of this. Mitsubishi's purchase of a substantial interest in Rockefeller Center, Sony's purchase of Columbia Pictures and Nintendo's recent flirtation with the Seattle Mariners make the headlines, but in almost every controversial case, it has been the American owners who have initiated the deal. The British still own more of the United States than the Japanese do.
Far more significant to Japan's growth than either its trade policies or its American acquisitions has been its willingness to save and to invest in its own productivity. Since the mid-1980's, Japanese companies have invested more money in new factories, capital equipment and products than have American companies -- even though Japan has half our population. And Japan has been investing heavily in education and infrastructure, and will be investing the equivalent of trillions of dollars more over the next decade. That all this investment enables Japan to make products of high quality, which American consumers want to buy, does not constitute a vicious plot.
Before going farther, it is necessary for me to reassure the reader that I am not now, nor have I ever been, an employee of a Japanese company, nor do I receive any research funds from the Japanese, consult for the Japanese or hold an academic chair donated by the Japanese. I feel compelled to issue this disclaimer because so much of the literature under review casts suspicions on any academic who dares suggest that a Japanese plot may not be under way. Pat Choate, in "Agents of Influence," warns darkly of Japan's infestation of American universities in order to distort research in its favor. One of the few characters in Mr. Crichton's "Rising Sun" who is not yet bought off by the Japanese explains that American professors "deliver the Japanese propaganda line. They don't really have a choice, because they need access to Japan to work." Were these professors to sound critical of Japan, they would "lose speaking engagements and consulting jobs. They know that's happened to their colleagues who step out of line." These passages are not only nonsensical, since Japanese funding accounts for a minuscule fraction of professorial incomes, they are uncomfortably reminiscent of suspicions during the 1950's of the loyalty of American university professors and their vulnerability to foreign conspiracy.
But if Japan is not really plotting against us, what accounts for this wave of fearmongering?
Perhaps American sensitivities are running high in light of the 50th anniversary of Pearl Harbor. Memories of the attack can be detected in the metaphors with which the Japanese challenge is described in many of these books: Japan is "targeting" our key industries (Holstein); it is "raiding" our technologies (Dietrich); we are "outgunned . . . in the battle for control of world financial resources" (Burstein); Japan is mounting a "planned attack" on the United States through a "new kind of invasion" (Crichton).
SOMETIMES the Pearl Harbor analogy is explicit. In "Pearl Harbor Ghosts" (1991) Thurston Clarke journeys to Hawaii to discover the legacies of the attack, and draws "lessons . . . too depressing, or simply too terrifying" to be faced by most Americans. "In a Japanese victory more enduring than Pearl Harbor," Japan has won the "trade war," and is turning Hawaii itself into an "economic colony" -- with "paler shadows haunting the mainland." The detective John Connor, in "Rising Sun," counsels his protege to "remember Pearl Harbor."
Yet memory of the disaster 50 years ago is only a small part of the explanation. The fears expressed in these books would not be as intense as they are were it not for America's own economic doldrums. Although several of the books were published before the current recession, low productivity gains and deepening debt have been eating away at the foundations of the American economy for years. The reasons for these long-term ills have been well chronicled: a capital market that resembles a casino and demands immediate profits; an educational system that leaves almost 80 percent of our young people unable to comprehend a news magazine and many others unprepared for work; managers who award themselves princely sums while laying off their workers at the slightest hint of a downturn; a collapsing infrastructure of unsafe bridges and potholed roads; and, more generally, a social norm -- which reached its zenith during the 1980's -- of overconsumption and underinvestment.
None of these failings are readily remedied without considerable sacrifice. It is far easier to blame others. It has been this way through history. When the British economy began to sag at the beginning of this century, British citizens were treated to a series of lurid exposes, such as Frederick MacKenzie's "American Invaders," about the American economic onslaught and its baleful consequences. Seventy years later, Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber issued similar warnings to Europe in "Le Defi Americain" ("The American Challenge"). That these American invasions helped their victims prosper in subsequent years is not now in dispute. Yet at the time they served to distract public attention from domestic problems. Japan plays a similar role for us today.
But I think there is something else going on here as well. Most of these books seek not only to explain our problems in terms of Japan's aggressiveness, but also to incite a response from the reader. These books are calls to arms. Their authors want America to join together against the perceived threat. Join together: American government, American business, American labor. Join together: wealthy Americans, poor Americans, Americans of every creed and ethnicity. In "Trading Places," Clyde Prestowitz asks rhetorically whether the American motto will be " 'every man for himself,' or 'all for one and one for all?' " and answers that "E Pluribus Unum (out of many, one) needs to be reaffirmed." William Dietrich urges us to "develop a national consensus of our own."
JAMES FALLOWS, a Washington-based journalist and among the most thoughtful critics of Japan, develops the unity theme most fully in his book "More Like Us" (1989). After surveying the differences between Japanese and American society, Mr. Fallows urges us to "revive the idea that America is one coherent society, with bonds that are stronger than its internal differences. We understood this instinctively during World War II, but not often enough since then."
The ostensible purpose of joining together is to meet the Japanese challenge. But I think that the real logic -- the deep message of these books, hidden perhaps even from the purveyors of the warnings -- is precisely the reverse. The purpose of having a Japanese challenge is to give us a reason to join together. That is, we seem to need Japan as we once needed the Soviet Union -- as a means of defining ourselves, our interests, our obligations to one another. We should not be surprised that this wave of Japan-as-enemy books coincides exactly with the easing of cold-war tensions.
As the 21st century approaches, we can see, I believe, a profound unease about the coherence of American society reflected in these books. The global economy is tightly linking our citizens to the citizens of other nations -- with ties as strong as, if not stronger than, the economic connections binding us to one another within our borders. Talented and well-educated Americans grow wealthier as the emerging world market rewards them for their problem-solving skills. Unskilled Americans grow poorer as they are forced to compete with millions of unskilled workers from around the world who are eager to work for a small fraction of American wages.
The same technologies of worldwide communication and transportation that have nourished the global economy are creating cultural linkages across borders and threatening the dominance within the United States of a single American culture. An affluent native of Brazil who lives in Miami can now read a Sao Paulo daily newspaper beamed by satellite to a computerized press a few miles away, watch Brazilian television via satellite, send and receive facsimile messages within seconds, telephone Brazil at the touch of a finger and fly home frequently to visit family and friends. Ease of worldwide transportation also means an ever larger number of illegal immigrants. And unlike the great tide of immigrants at the end of the last century, most of the people in this new wave are not European.
The recent movement toward multicultural ism in American schools and colleges, and the sharp reaction to it, can be understood in the same terms: at once a sign of the nation's increasing diversity, and also a warning of the growing power of its centrifuge. At least one Presidential candidate now trudging through New Hampshire, Pat Buchanan, is sounding the nativist alarm, not heard so loud in this country since the 1930's.
This is the real specter haunting these Japan books: not the specter of Japan's dominance, but of an America that no longer coheres. Japan's extreme homogeneity -- racial, cultural, linguistic -- intensifies, by contrast, our feared loss of identity. They do join together; they do seem tightly bound to one another. They know who they are. But who are we?
Yet an economic war with Japan is not necessary to help us find a national self-definition. At best, such a war could function as a pretext for directing America's resources, newly freed up by the end of the cold war, toward health, nutrition and schooling (we must invest in the future generation of Americans, lest the Japanese overtake us!), and toward our infrastructure (Americans must be linked together by fiber-optic cable, so that we can meet the Japanese challenge!). But an economic war with Japan could also be as wasteful and destructive as was the cold war with the Soviet Union -- causing us to restrict Japanese trade and block Japanese investment, engage in a mounting series of economic retaliations and thus substantially diminish our standard of living and theirs. It could also ignite racism and jingoism of the ugliest sort.
The central question for America in the post-Soviet world -- a diverse America, whose economy and culture are rapidly fusing with the economies and cultures of the rest of the globe -- is whether it is possible to rediscover our identity, and our mutual responsibility, without creating a new enemy. The authors under review may think not. I hope they are wrong.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: RISING SUN (BOOK)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (50%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (50%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); CONSPIRACY (77%); LITERATURE (76%); LITERATURE GENRES (76%); 

PERSON: REICH, ROBERT B; CRICHTON, MICHAEL JOHN MICHAEL 'MICHAEL' CRICHTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992



349 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Weeklies See Profits Without A Charge

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
Although numerous publications have been battered by the recession, Michael Schenkler remains convinced he can make money by expanding in the free-distribution newspaper business in the New York area.
Mr. Schenkler, president of News Communications Inc., says his small company's four free newspapers -- The Manhattan Spirit, Our Town and The Queens Tribune in New York City and Dan's Papers on eastern Long Island -- are profitable, with a total circulation of about 425,000 copies a week. And he is so certain that he has found the formula for success that he is aggressively seeking to buy other, similar publications. 
 "We're certainly in better shape than the dailies," Mr. Schenkler asserted, noting that three of the city's four daily newspapers -- The Daily News, The New York Post and New York Newsday -- have lost tens of millions of dollars in recent years.
 
Opportunities for Weeklies
 News Communications' plans underscore what some industry executives and analysts say are the opportunities for free-distribution weeklies. Focusing on local issues, these weeklies are different from the free "shoppers" that carry only advertising.
These analysts and executives say the weeklies, which are distributed in stores or to apartment lobbies and doorsteps, are weathering the recession better than many dailies. As a result, they say, the weeklies present a big challenge to dailies in cities and suburbs across the country, from Boston to the wealthy communities outside Los Angeles.
But other analysts are more skeptical. Free weeklies, they maintain, are suffering like nearly everyone else, particularly because they cannot raise revenue by increasing cover prices. They also emphasize that it is difficult to find data on the weeklies.
And these analysts repeat a maxim in the industry: advertisers prefer daily newspapers because they believe that people who pay for publications are more likely to read them.
Free weeklies "lack the stability you get from circulation revenues," said John S. Reidy, a newspaper industry analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company. "I really don't view these newspapers as a significant source of competition for a well-run major newspaper."
John Morton, an analyst at Lynch, Jones & Ryan in Washington, said he doubted that free weeklies had escaped the economic slump. He said two weekly chains in the Washington area whose operations he recently examined were definitely feeling it.
But other analysts, as well as some publishers, assert that as the economy has slumped, many businesses have focused on reaching specific neighborhoods with their advertisments in order to cut costs.
 
'Holding Their Own'
 "When businesses scale back, they target more, and weeklies are good recipients for this kind of targeted approach," said Deirdre T. Flynn, executive director of the Association of Free Community Papers, which represents weeklies that claim a combined circulation of 18 million.
Ms. Flynn said the association did not keep statistics on how the industry was faring, but she added that free-distribution newspapers were "holding their own" in the recession.
And Ken Noble, president of Noble Consultants Inc., a market research firm in Bronxville, N.Y., said there was anecdotal evidence that many free weeklies were weathering the downturn well. "Although there is no good data, it is a business that is doing better than average," he said.
Tom Karavakis, president of Add Inc. in Waupaca, Wis., one of the nation's largest chains of free weeklies, said his publications' performance depended to some extent on location: papers in Wisconsin and Ohio had fared well, while others in New York and Connecticut had seen their advertising fall because the recession had hit those states harder.
Mr. Karavakis declined to disclose specific figures, but he asserted that in general his weeklies were doing better than their daily competitors.
 
Mom-and-Pop Customers
 "Large daily newspapers are dependent on department store advertising," he said. "They've lost a lot of linage that we never got in the first place. Our accounts are the mom-and-pop customers who are more easily replaced if they do go out of business."
Mr. Schenkler of News Communications said his newspapers were prospering because they reached neighborhoods attractive to advertisers while keeping costs low by, for example, employing nonunion labor.
As a result, News Communications has posted its first profits since it became a publicly traded company in 1987. It earned $4,000 in the second quarter and $139,000 in the third quarter, the latest period reported. For the first nine months of 1991, it narrowed its losses to $128,000, from $730,000 a year earlier. Revenues rose more than 13 percent in the period, to $5.1 million.
Mr. Schenkler's weeklies focus on local issues like education, crime and community board hearings. A recent issue of The Queens Tribune, for example, included articles on a crime wave at the Queensbridge housing project and political redistricting.
In May, News Communications bought Our Town, which circulates on the East Side of Manhattan, for a little more than $1 million. Since that time, Mr. Schenkler estimated, revenue has grown about 50 percent.
 
Expansion Plans
 "By the time I'm done with what I intend to do," he said, "I'll have a paper in every borough and I'll be in Connecticut and I'll be all the way to the tip of Long Island."
But Mr. Schenkler still faces some important skeptics.
"We on the advertising side have always had a concern about unpaid publications of any kind," said Roberta Garfinkle, senior vice president for print media at the McCann-Erickson advertising agency. "What kind of guarantees do we have that people actually see it?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Like many other publishers of free weeklies, Michael Schenkler, center, contends that his business is thriving. He recently met with other executives of News Communications, his small New York area newspaper chain. (Steve Berman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NCOCD (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEWS COMMUNICATIONS INC NEWS COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (63%); LYNCH JONES & RYAN INC (52%); NEW YORK (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEWS COMMUNICATIONS INC NEW YORK (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; NEWSPAPERS PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; SCHENKLER, MICHAEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



350 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International A2-10
 
HAITIANS TELL OF TERROR
 Dozens of refugees forcibly returned to Haiti by the United States have fled a second time. The reason, they told United Nations officials, is that they faced beatings, imprisonment and death threats. A1
 Haiti's exiled President also tells of the refugees' travails. A8
 
OPEC SEEKS HIGHER PRICES
 
 The president of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said he would ask member nations to reduce their output to bolster prices, which have fallen 20 percent since November. But whether the oil producers can agree on how and where to cut is far from certain. D1
 
WHAT'S WORSE, RUSSIA OR ISRAEL?
 Russian Jews coping with shortages and uncertainty in their country ponder immigrating to Israel, but friends and relatives there tell them there are few good jobs. A3
In disgruntled Moscow, thousands hold rival political rallies. A10
 
ALGERIA CLAMPS DOWN HARD
 In a decisive move against Muslim fundamentalists, the military-backed Government imposed a 12-month state of emergency under which constitutional rights will be suspended. A3
 
JITTERS IN VENEZUELA
 A coup attempt failed last week, but the Government, wary that the plotters may be depicted as heroes, has put censors in newsrooms and has confiscated magazines. A3
 
SEARCHING FOR THE 'THIRD FORCE'
 A commission in South Africa looks for proof that security forces have orchestrated political violence in which thousands of rival blacks have died. A6
 
TOURIST PLANE CRASHES
 An airliner chartered by Club Med crashed in the West African nation of Senegal, and 30 people were said to have been killed. A5
 
STICK TO CARS, IRAQ TELLS BUSH
 Iraq, alluding to President Bush's recent trip to Japan, said he should stick to the auto business and stay out of Baghdad's. A2
 
'JFK,' ITALIAN STYLE
 The plane went down off Sicily in 1980, and all 81 people aboard died. Conspiracy theories, fueled by a new movie, abound. A7
 A bitter dispute shakes Japan's most prominent Buddhist sect. A4
 In Chile, development clashes with indigenous culture. A8
 
National A12-15, B11
 
WHEN DOES SOMEONE HAVE AIDS?
 The Centers for Disease Control and the Social Security Administration are proposing to change the definition of AIDS and the criteria for AIDS-related disability benefits, but find themselves hampered by widespread criticism and the sheer complexity of their task. A1
Report faults scientist who reported discovering the AIDS virus. B11
 
RELIEF, BUT 9 DAYS AWAY
 With more than a week to go until the state's Presidential primary, residents of New Hampshire can be forgiven for suffering campaign fatigue. Day and night, on radio and television, political commercials are impossible to avoid. A1
 
VOLATILITY IN NEW HAMPSHIRE
 Polls in New Hampshire show a close race between former Senator Tsongas and Governor Clinton, with much of the electorate still undecided and hungry for candidates with "comprehensive plans." A14
 
THE CLINTON ROLLER COASTER
The money is still coming in and he is still ahead in the polls, but Governor Clinton is on a slippery slope as rumors and accusations prick his campaign at every turn. A14
 
BUT WHAT ABOUT CORN?
 With the Iowa caucuses almost a non-event this election year, state residents lament that the Presidental candidates are simply not discussing agriculture and other issues dear to Midwestern hearts. A15
Pat Buchanan steps up his attacks on the President. A15
 
A LOCAL PLAN FOR JOBS
 For cities buffeted by recession, Grand Forks, N.D., offers a heartening example of what can be done locally to save and even create jobs. An economic development program, financed by a local sales tax, provides flexible and often speedy financial assistance to new or expanding businesses. A12
 
OUTSIDE THE COCOON
 Having been cushioned from the day-to-day world of ordinary folk, high Government officials often find a harsh world after leaving Federal work, a world where they have to drive their own car and, horrors, stand in line. A12
 
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
A STORY OF ABUSE AND FAILURE
 The story of 8-year-old Yaakov Riegler, whose mother pleaded guilty to killing him, is not only one of his suffering, but that of a child welfare system that failed, despite warnings, to help the child. A1
 
TEENS ARRESTED IN SLAYING
 Two teen-age boys were arrested in the killing of Ruth Mitchell, a 45-year-old woman who was walking with her 10-year-old son on a Coney Island street. The shooting resulted after the two boys bought a rifle on the street and then took it to the roof of a building to test it. A1
 
NEW SCHOOLS INITIATIVE
 The New York City Schools Chancellor is devising a plan to lengthen the school day by an hour and the school year by 25 days to improve student skills and to make a bid for a share of the money the city hopes to gain through bond refinancing. A1
 
Neediest Cases B2
 
Business Digest, D1
 
Sports C1-11
 MAGIC RETURNS FOR A CAREER DAY
Magic Johnson, who retired in November after announcing that he was infected with the virus that causes AIDS, was named the most valuable player of today's National Basketball Association All-Star Game, finishing with 25 points and 9 assists in 29 minutes. A1
 
Basketball: Michigan beats Notre Dame. C2
Southern Cal is surprise. C2
Columns: Vecsey on Magic Johnson. C1
Anderson on downhill racing. C5
Olympics: Ortlieb takes downhill. C1
Austrians 1-2 in jump. C5
U.S. hockey team beats Italy. C5
German athletes asked if they were informers. C7
 
Obituaries D12
Ray E. Helfer, pioneer in child abuse prevention
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-18
The Modern puts its new Picasso on display tomorrow. C13
Hard work to look smooth on film. C13
 
Word and Image:
"The Paula Poundstone Show," on HBO. C13
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials A16
The city's homeless.
The new heroin bargain.
Goodbye T. rex.
Letters A16
Leslie H. Gelb: Worriers vs. wallowers. A17
William Safire: Radio Free Asia. A17
Eric Bogosian: Un-American activities. A17
James Fallows: A plea for truth-in-bashing. A17
James Reston: Send the candidates a message. A17

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Moscow, demonstrations for and against Yeltsin. A10 (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CU (PAR) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (54%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (54%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (54%); 

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAQ (92%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); ALGERIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: CLUB MEDITERRANEE SA (54%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAQ (92%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); ALGERIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); CHILE (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); CARTELS (89%); AIDS & HIV (89%); RELIGION (88%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (86%); IMMIGRATION (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); COUPS (77%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); OIL EXTRACTION (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); FUNDAMENTALISM (72%); CENSORSHIP (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); AIRLINES (64%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (60%); VIRUSES (60%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



351 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1756 words

HEADLINE: SOME HAITIANS SAY CONTINUING ABUSES FORCED A 2D FLIGHT

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 9

 BODY:
Dozens of refugees forcibly returned to Haiti in recent months have told United Nations officials that they suffered beatings, imprisonment, death threats and other abuses that prompted them to flee their country a second time.
The statements, made to interviewers last month at the refugee camp set up by the United States at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, appear to undercut a key argument made by the Bush Administration in defending its policy of forcibly returning Haitian boat people. State Department officials have consistently said there is "no evidence" that any Haitians have suffered political repression upon their return. 
 A State Department official said the refugees' assertions were being investigated.
 
U.N. Aide Urges Review
 A United Nations official familiar with the cases called the accounts "sufficiently disturbing to warrant a review of policy toward the Haitians."
Refugee advocates said the statements would be introduced as evidence when the Supreme Court considers, possibly as early as Monday, a final appeal to slow the return of the thousands of Haitians held at the United States Navy base at Guantanamo.
More than 15,000 boat people have fled Haiti since October, in the aftermath of a violent military coup against the country's first elected Government. Following a long court-ordered delay, the Coast Guard resumed repatriations last week after the Supreme Court cleared the way, even as the process was being appealed.
 
Statements by 42
 The 42 Haitians who made the statements to United Nations refugee officials are officially known as "double-backers," having made desperate second attempts to flee Haiti after returning to their country and encountering violent repression.
Lawyers for the refugees said the Haitians had also been interviewed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and 41 of the 42 were recently granted entry to the United States. The Immigration Service apparently determined that the account of one refugee lacked credibility.
One Haitian, who insisted on anonymity, said he had escaped from prison after having been returned to the island in November. While he was in jail other returnees were removed from his cell and beaten, and prison guards said some returnees would be killed for having criticized their Government, he said.
Refugee and immigration rights advocates said today that the State Department, which contends that most Haitians are fleeing for economic reasons, appeared to have played down the risks refugees face in order to secure the Supreme Court's permission to send them back.
"On the one hand you have the I.N.S. receiving credible accounts of death, torture and imprisonment," said Arthur C. Helton, an immigration expert with the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, "and on the other hand you have the State Department spokeswoman claiming there has never been presented any evidence of mistreatment of these people -- a statement that was reflected in the Solicitor General's arguments to the Court."
Mr. Helton, who provided a journalist with transcripts of several of the interviews with the 41 refugees at Guantanamo, called the State Department's handling of the matter a "studied attempt to mislead the Federal judiciary." The interviews were conducted in January by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
 
Reports Given to U.S.
 On Friday, the commissioner, Sadako Ogata, delivered information from interviews with the 41 Haitians to Brunson McKinley, an ambassadorial-level official in the State Department's bureau of refugee programs.
A State Department official said his agency had learned of the accounts by the "double-backers" about a week ago from the interviews conducted at Guantanamo by the Immigration Service. Last week, the official said, the United States Embassy in Port-au-Prince was instructed to investigate several of the cases.
"We haven't confirmed this yet," the official said, denying that there had been any attempt to mislead the public or the judiciary. "We'll see. Maybe it will be confirmed, maybe it won't.
"It is absurd to think that anyone could or would try to hide this," he said, "because about 25 percent of the Haitian boat people have already been screened into this country to pursue asylum claims precisely because they have shown fears of individual persecution."
 
Reliability Questioned
 The spokesman for the Immigration Service, Duke Austin, also raised questions about the reliability of refugees' accounts in general, although he did not dispute the details in these cases. "If you took everything in their interviews that was said as a fact, then every Haitian would be waved in," he said.
On Friday, Richard A. Boucher, a State Department spokesman, said in a Washington briefing: "We have no evidence people were persecuted for having been sent back. We've said before that there are occasional allegations and stories, that our embassy and others try to check these out. But, to date, we haven't had any that do check out."
Asked how reliable the information provided by the refugees about persecution was, the United Nations official said: "The stories they tell are similar and detailed, which adds to their credibility. They also provided the names of other people they were with, and these names have checked out."
Citing the interviews, refugee advocates have called for a temporary halt to sending people back until the United States can insure that it is safe for others to be returned.
 
10,000 Still at Guantanamo
 More than 10,000 Haitians remain at the tent camp at Guantanamo, and most are expected to be returned. More than 2,000 were sent back as of Friday, the Immigration Service said. More than 3,400 have been cleared for entry to the United States to be considered for permanent political asylum, based on the legal criterion of a "well-founded fear of persecution."
The "double-backers" were among 538 Haitians returned in November, before the process was delayed for months by legal appeals. Since immigration interviews are still being conducted at Guantanamo, it is not known how many other double-backers might be there.
The interviews, if accurate, bolster the view that the army-backed government that overthrew the President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, is conducting a campaign of terror against people it believes to be his supporters.
Refugee advocates say it also raises questions about the processing of refugees upon their return to Haiti. At dockside, with heavily armed police standing by, the refugees are interviewed by Haitian immigration officers, fingerprinted and photographed, before being allowed to leave the port area with a small amount of money, provided by the Red Cross, for transportation home.
One 21-year-old refugee, Similus Thomas, said his father, a member of Father Aristide's political movement, Lavalas, had been shot dead on Nov. 1. Twelve days later, Mr. Thomas fled the country by boat, only to be returned by the Coast Guard on Nov. 17.
Two days later, soldiers came looking for him at his mother's home in the Port-au-Prince slum of Cite Soleil, but were told he was not there. According to Mr. Thomas, his cousin, Lifete Similus, who made the voyage with him, was arrested that same day.
Hours later, the body of Lifete Similus was found, dressed in a soldier's uniform and riddled with bullets, in the street near his house.
Mr. Thomas said he was later arrested and jailed along with others among the 229 who were returned with him from Guantanamo. Mr. Thomas said the prisoners were beaten daily and said a guard told him that several had been killed for fleeing Haiti.
Mr. Thomas said he was able to escape dressed in a women's clothing, which had been smuggled into the prison by a friend. He told how he later made his way to the island of La Gonave and hid in the bush, fleeing Haiti on Jan. 9 after begging for passage on a boat.
State Department officials say diplomats looking into this case and that of another resident of Cite Soleil "were unable to turn up any information."
Another refugee, Fritz Jean, a 30-year-old who was forcibly returned with his wife and child on Nov. 13, said he had come forward at the dockside refugee processing center when authorities failed to call out his name.
Mr. Jean said he was told that if his name was not on the list, he could not have been on the Coast Guard cutter, and that he must be one of those who had "denounced the Haitian authorities and his country to the United States."
When Mr. Jean's wife decided to remain in the city, he borrowed from her the $10 she had been given by the Red Cross and began to make his way to his family's hometown of Petit-Goave.
As it left Port-au-Prince, Mr. Jean's bus was stopped at a checkpoint by soldiers who boarded the vehicle and at gunpoint insisted that passengers identify those who had come aboard at the port, he said. The soldiers began to beat these passengers with rifle butts and arrested about 20 men, women and children who had been repatriated with him on the same cutter.
Mr. Jean said somehow he escaped detection. When he arrived in Petit-Goave, he said his mother told him soldiers had already come looking for him. Rather than risk arrest, he left for La Gonave that night. On Jan. 9, he said, he caught his second boat for the United States, but was soon picked up again by the Coast Guard.
Jean-Eddy Theodore, another Petit-Goave resident, described himself as a member of the Association Comite des Jeunes, a pro-Aristide youth group whose vice president had been arrested and beaten after the Sept. 30 coup.
 
Returned in Mid-November
 Sent back to Haiti in mid-November, Mr. Theodore said he was accosted by a soldier as he left the port area, but was left alone after telling him that he had gone there to see a relative.
As he left the dock, Mr. Theodore said he heard shots and immediately fled, sleeping that night by the roadside. The following morning, he said, as he approached the dock area again, he came across the body of a person who had been sent back to Haiti with him.
When Mr. Theodore reached Petit-Goave, he said, his mother alerted him that soldiers were looking for him. Relatives of fellow returnees told him that a warrant had been issued for the arrest of several of them for criticizing the Government.
After soldiers came looking for him at his girlfriend's house, where he had been hiding, Mr. Theodore made his way to La Gonave and caught a boat for the United States on Jan. 9.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some forcibly returned Haitian refugees told United Nations officials that their recent flight was prompted by abuses that followed a previous flight and return. The Coast Guard cutter Seneca returned 200 Haitians to Port-au-Prince on Saturday from camps in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. (Reuters); Haitians praying on Friday in St.-Michel Church in Port-au-Prince for the return of the deposed President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide. (Associated Press) (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (93%); 

CITY: PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) IMMIGRATION SERVICE (60%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); US NAVY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); US NAVY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (93%); PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (73%); 

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; THREATS AND THREATENING MESSAGES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BOAT PEOPLE REFUGEES (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); PRISONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); SUPREME COURTS (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); TORTURE (78%); MILITARY BASES (77%); NAVIES (76%); LITIGATION (73%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); COUPS (71%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (70%); POLITICS (70%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); FRENCH, HOWARD W

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



352 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: Schools Chief Wants to Lengthen Year for New York City Students

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
New York City Schools Chancellor Joseph A. Fernandez is fashioning a plan to lengthen the school day by an hour and the school year by 25 days, both to improve student skills and to make a bid for a hefty share of the $1.1 billion the city hopes to gain through bond refinancing.
Mr. Fernandez, who has gained national attention for initiatives like a condom-distribution program and school-based management, is seizing on an idea that some educators contend can make American students more competitive with those of other industrialized countries. 
 But Mr. Fernandez is also making what he calls a daring "grab" for up to $250 million of the $1.1 billion that Mayor David N. Dinkins hopes will flow to the city through a refinancing of bonds held by the Municipal Assistance Corporation, the agency created during the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's to sell bonds on behalf of the city.
Felix G. Rohatyn, the chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, has indicated a willingness to consider allowing the city to use the M.A.C. funds. But he has said the proceeds from a refinancing cannot be used simply to close gaps in the city's budget, but must be combined with investments that yield productivity savings and reductions in the work force to help balance the city's budget within a few years.
Mr. Fernandez said he thought that a longer school day and longer year would increase graduation rates, reduce the number of students who are mistakenly referred to costly programs for the learning disabled and give the city a better educated work force, precisely the kinds of measures he feels Mr. Rohatyn, who has shown a strong personal interest in education, is seeking. Mr. Rohatyn was out of the country and could not be reached for comment.
The move, however, could put the Chancellor in conflict with City Hall. In the past Mr. Fernandez has not shied away from such confrontations on budget matters.
The First Deputy Mayor, Norman Steisel, reacted coolly to Mr. Fernandez's proposal. In an interview on Friday, Mr. Steisel denied the Chancellor's assertion that he had discussed the proposal with Mayor Dinkins.
Mr. Steisel also said the M.A.C. money was "was not up for grabs" because most of it was earmarked for other purposes.
But he did say that as much as $200 million in M.A.C. money was available for investments in productivity, and he did not rule out the possibility that Mr. Fernandez's proposal might qualify.
"If in fact he can show that by spending money, he's going to produce downsizing, a more productive, less expensive school system, then we would have to look hard at how do you find ways to make that investment," he said.
The United States has one of theshortest school years among industrialized nations. Children in Japan, West Germany, South Korea and Israel are required to attend school between 216 to 243 days a year while those in most American states attend roughly 180 days. Students in foreign countries also spend more time in school each day than the 6 hours and 20 minutes demanded of New York City pupils.
 
Once Tied to 'Farm Economy'
 The disparities are often used to explain the superior performance of foreign students in mathematics and science.
In a lengthy interview last week, Mr. Fernandez said: "Historically, the 180-day school year was tied into the farm economy and the one-room school house, people having to come home before dark, having to be available when the crops were harvested."
But proposals to lengthen the day or year have been hobbled by the American tradition of the long summer vacation, cherished by teachers as well as parents, and by the complex daily rhythms of American family life in an era of working mothers.
Only a handful of schools have experimented with alternatives, so if Mr. Fernandez overcomes the considerable obstacles facing his plan, New York could become the first urban system to stretch the year appreciably beyond 180 days. A commission appointed by Gov. Jim Florio of New Jersey recently called for an extension of the school year to 220 days, and at least one town, Englewood, is looking into an extension of the school year to 200 days.
Mr. Fernandez, who prides himself on his reputation as an innovator, suggested that his bid for the corporation money is driven by budgetary practicalities: the city has no money for educational improvements. The only source the Chancellor sees on the horizon is the estimated $1.1 billion that is expected to be realized through a refinancing of corporation bonds over the next four years.
 
A Link to Performance
 Because schools make up a quarter of the city's budget, he said, the refinancing could potentially yield $250 million for the city's schools, with $20 million to $50 million needed for his proposal to extend the school day and year, largely to pay higher salaries for teachers who would be working more hours. Mr. Fernandez has patched together other proposals for the rest of the $250 million, including a large investment in computer-assisted reading programs.
In the interview, he contended that increasing the amount of time students spend in school should produce marked benefits in higher reading and math scores and lower dropout rates that would win Mr. Rohatyn's blessings.
"It should be tied to student outcomes and if it doesn't produce, fold it," Mr. Fernandez said.
He said that under his proposal, 100 of the city's 991 schools, most of them junior high schools, would be asked to fashion individualized plans for lengthening the school day on four days a week and for mandatory five-week summer session programs.
 
Emphasis on Core Classes
 The additional class time would be used for academic subjects like math, English and science and not for recreational or extracurricular activities. Together the summer session and lengthened school days could amount to the equivalent of a 235-day school year, Mr. Fernandez said.
Such proposals could be done over the next few months, he said, and the program could begin in a few schools as early as September. Mr. Fernandez did not spell out how schools would deal with students or teachers who did not want to participate in the program, saying only that each school would have to address such issues in its proposal.
Mr. Fernandez has broached the idea of a longer day, though not of a longer year, to Sandra Feldman, the president of the United Federation of Teachers, during current negotiations over a new contract.
In an interview on Friday, Ms. Feldman said that details of the proposal were sketchy but that "we're open to it if people are appropriately paid and if we're talking about an educational program."
Traditionally, many teachers search for ways to make extra money, and summer-school assignments are regarded as plums.
 
Other Education Plans
 In the interview, Mr. Fernandez also revealed a number of other plans:
*Setting up "family colleges" in which mothers on welfare could attend City University classes while their children attended school in nearby classrooms run by the Board of Education. The first such program will open at Kingsborough Community College on March 6.
*Increasing the science requirement for high school graduation to three years from two, with more rigorous science courses required for graduation.
*Creating 10 small high schools, including one for students interested in environmental sciences that will open in September in the building on East 15th Street that is currently occupied by Stuyvesant High School. Stuyvesant is moving to new quarters just north of Battery Park City.
Mr. Fernandez also lamented the impact of budget cuts on the schools, noting that average class size in the 4th through 12th grades has grown by two students, with high school classes averaging 32.3 students.
 
Focus on Junior High
 Mr. Fernandez explained that junior high schools would be the focus of the the plan to extend the school day and year because they are regarded as the city's most troubled. Many students begin patterns of attendance and work that lead to their dropping out by the time they reach high school.
James S. Vlasto, a spokesman for Mr. Fernandez, said the school day would not be lengthened on Fridays because many schools use that day for special activities and because many Jewish teachers, who need to to get home in time for the Sabbath, could not work longer hours.
Mr. Fernandez noted that his efforts to improve attendance have already resulted in a $22 million increase in state aid, which is based on attendance.
Similarly, he said, a five-week summer session for elementary school students threatened with being held back has cut by half referrals to costly programs for the learning disabled.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ;UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (UFT) MUNICIPAL ASSISTANCE CORP (76%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (59%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (UFT) UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (59%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LEARNING DISABILITIES ; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; WORKING HOURS; WAGES AND SALARIES; DROPOUTS BUDGETS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); BONDS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); CITIES (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); GRADUATION RATES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: FERNANDEZ, JOSEPH A (CHANCELLOR); BERGER, JOSEPH ; FELDMAN, SANDRA; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) JOSEPH A FERNANDEZ (97%); FELIX G ROHATYN (58%); NORMAN STEISEL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



353 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Campaign Journal;
Steady Drum of '92 Ads Takes Toll on Voters

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GOFFSTOWN, N.H., Feb. 9

 BODY:
Campaign fatigue may be setting in at the D'Angelo Sandwich Shop here.
Each morning, just after Georgette Seguin starts slicing the bread at precisely 9:30, the same commercial attacking President Bush comes on the radio, and Dan Deshaies cannot resist the temptation to come out of the back room, look her in the eye, and begin lip-syncing to the President's voice: "Read my lips: No new taxes." 
"I've probably done it 25 times now, and Georgette still laughs every time," said Mr. Deshaies, the shop's manager, but he allowed that the joke might be wearing thin. "Personally, I think all these campaign ads are kind of stinky, because they won't stop playing the same ones. The Presidency is like a product, and when you sell a product, you should change the ads."
Actually, they do change some of the ads, but for many people here it is hard to tell the difference anymore. The campaign is becoming one long audio-visual blur. The news programs and talk shows are devoted to campaign appearances, to candidates' health-care plans and candidates' bouts of flu, to the character of Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, and to the question that mercilessly refuses to die on talk radio: Will Mario Cuomo run?
And just about anyone who turns on a radio or television, whether for Merle Haggard's music or the intrigues of "All My Children," is going to be subjected to a candidate's commercial. The most inescapable message seems to be Mr. Bush's famous no-new-taxes pledge from 1988 -- the sound bite that is biting back.
Commercials for Mr. Bush's conservative challenger, Patrick J. Buchanan, feature the pledge over and over on radio and in television spots accompanied by red and white letters asking, "Can we afford FOUR MORE YEARS of BROKEN promises?" In the latest version, Mr. Buchanan's commercial ends with a group of what seem to be kindly country folks sitting at a general store as they recite "Read our lips" and the announcer says, "Vote Pat Buchanan for President."
So far, the commercials have not won any votes at the sandwich shop -- Mr. Deshaies and Mrs. Seguin are sticking with the President -- and other Republican voters say their anger at the President's policies is beginning to be redirected at Mr. Buchanan's incessant ads.
Another inescapable presence is the smiling face of Mr. Clinton, from the childhood photos appearing on his commercials to the shots of his campaign appearances. Many people in Washington think the continuing questions about the Governor's character -- and the jokes by Johnny Carson and David Letterman -- are bound to cripple his campaign, but here on television Mr. Clinton still manages to look unperturbed, if not smug.
Mr. Clinton's loudest critic, Gennifer Flowers, secured her status as a butt of late-night monologues by appearing twice last week on "A Current Affair" to repeat her accusations that Mr. Clinton had an affair with her. The interviews were conducted so leeringly and credulously that they must have inspired sympathy for Mr. Clinton, and Ms. Flowers's singing of "Stand by Your Man" was possibly a new low even for tabloid television.
Former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts had his first triumph on television when he appeared Friday evening live on WMUR-TV's newscast to discuss a survey by the Manchester station. The poll showed him replacing Mr. Clinton as the first choice of Democratic voters, and, at least on Friday's newscast, Mr. Tsongas got front-runner treatment.
"I wish to deny that poll," Mr. Tsongas joked in his low-key style, which is becoming more endearing as he gets accustomed to the camera and viewers get accustomed to his droopy presence on the screen. He predictably warned that a single poll could not be trusted, and he reinforced his image of cautious dependability by turning sober and saying, "I think the basic point is that the economic message is taking hold."
 
Kerrey Tries 'a Change'
 Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska is running commercials with a slogan of "Courage for a Change," and the most obvious change is that he is talking to people. In his first commercials he stood alone gesturing robotically as he spoke sternly at the camera.
Last week, Mr. Kerrey looked more personable in a commercial showing him at a kitchen table urging people not to accept his rivals' "counterfeit" health-care plans. His image may also have benefited from another commercial, showing still photographs of him in Vietnam and later receiving the Medal of Honor, that happened to run just before Mr. Clinton appeared live on the news to answer questions about his draft deferment.
Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa has some of the most striking television advertising. He appears speaking to a circle of people on the empty floor of an abandoned factory, which is initially disconcerting, since it is not clear what all of them are doing in there.
But the camera does a lovely job of catching Mr. Harkin's expressive face as sunlight streams in through the windows, and he has the flair to make the scene convincing as he talks about hearing echoes of advice from the factory's past workers: "Don't forget. Don't give up. Build it again." The commercial seems nearly as well-ingrained in public consciousness as Mr. Bush's read-my-lips sound bite.
But some local viewers are distracted from the message because they recognize the commercial's setting. The building was part of the giant textile mill in Manchester that went out of business in the mid-1930's -- during the New Deal, a period that Mr. Harkin praises as the epitome of American productivity. Over the next half-century, smaller textile businesses used the mill, but they gradually failed, too, and Mr. Harkin's exhortation to "build it again" sounds odd to some people.
 
Locals Are Skeptical
 "The idea that any single candidate could do anything to revive the textile industry here is a fairy tale," said Elizabeth Lessard, a Manchester librarian. "We've been watching these companies fail for decades because they can't compete with the new mills in the South and overseas. You look at him standing in that old factory floor with all the columns in the background, and you think, 'My Lord, who could ever manufacture anything today in that kind of building?' "
Former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California is the least conspicuous of the candidates, because he is not running short commercials. Instead, he is relying on a 30-minute commercial, "Take Back America," that appears infrequently and attacks the whole election system as corrupted by money. He also relies on talk radio, and his disgust seems to resonate with certain listeners.
Some voters say that what they like about this year's Democratic campaign is the lack of negativity, or at least the absence of negative advertising. There is still plenty of time before the Feb. 18 primary for things to turn nasty, but so far the Democrats have generally refrained from singling out rivals by name in their commercials.
"They're talking about the issues more this time," said Laurence Gott, a landscaper in Bedford. "People are still mad at the negative advertising from four years ago, and I think it's good that there hasn't been much of the negative stuff. Well, except for that read-my-lips one. Now that's one that stays in your head.
"Yeah, it's getting repetitious. I would also have to say that a lot of people are looking forward to Feb. 19."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Bob Kerrey, in black sweatshirt and gray sweatpants, participating in a race called "Run for the Primary" yesterday in Manchester, N.H. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: ;DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: ;DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW HAMPSHIRE UNITED STATES (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; TELEVISION ; PRIMARIES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); RADIO ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (74%); GOVERNORS (74%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CONSERVATISM (67%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; HARKIN, TOM (SEN); TSONGAS, PAUL E; BROWN, EDMUND G JR; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); KERREY, BOB (SEN) ; TIERNEY, JOHN GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); TOM HARKIN (59%); DAVID LETTERMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



354 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: A Community Board in Conflict

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
Fear and anguish have upset the workaday business of Community Board 14 in Brooklyn. Angry outbursts and denunciations have disrupted its monthly meetings in school auditoriums. Its storefront office on Avenue H in Flatbush closed for three days last month while its staff underwent counseling, and when the office reopened, a police officer stood guard out front.
For two years now, the community board has been under a sort of political siege as a small but determined group of black community advocates has waged a vigorous campaign to increase the number of blacks on the largely white board. 
 Their protests, which have led to threats, assaults and arrests, accusations of racism and racial and anti-Semitic remarks, have struck a nerve in the district that many fear could disrupt not only the community board but also the racially mixed district, which includes Flatbush and Midwood.
"Their agenda is to obstruct and perpetuate a deep racial mistrust in this community," Terry Rodie, the board's district manager, said. "We cannot let that happen -- whatever it takes."
But the protesters, led by Ernest N. Foster, a local businessman and political aspirant, say the efforts to portray them as dangerous and divisive simply muddle the real issue: blacks, who represent 40 percent of the district, hold just 22 percent of the seats on the board. "The neighborhood has changed drastically, but the power structure hasn't," Mr. Foster said. "Right now I see Flatbush just like South Africa. The majority are here, but we have no power, economically or politically."
The protests, which show no sign of ending, in many ways reflect how the district -- as much of Brooklyn -- has changed and is changing further. In the last decade, as thousands of Caribbean and other immigrants have flowed into the long, narrow district hanging from the southern end of Prospect Park, the black population has increased by 46 percent, according to
the 1990 census. At the same time, the white population has fallen 18 percent.
What has changed much less has been Community Board 14. There are only 11 blacks among the 50 board members, who are appointed to the voluntary position by Borough President Howard Golden from nominations by the City Council members from the district. Two years ago there were only three blacks on the board.
While acknowledging a discrepancy in minority representation, the board's chairman, Alvin M. Berk, who is white, said the color of board members' skin was irrelevant compared with the competence and commitment they bring to the board, which acts as a liaison between the community and the city's various agencies.
"This board is not about race," said Mr. Berk. "This board is about delivering services to the community without regard to race. Service delivery is not racial. There is not a black way to pick up garbage and a white way to pick up garbage."
The protests began early in 1990 -- about the time the board became embroiled in the highly publicized and racially divisive boycott of a Korean greengrocer on Church Avenue. Mr. Foster,
the chairman of the African People's Political Club of Flatbush, said that to him the boycott reflected a blatant instance of how Flatbush's black community struggles without a voice in a system dominated by a white political machine.
The community board, as the first level of city government, became Mr. Foster's target, and since March of 1990, he and a handful of supporters have appeared at almost every one of the board's monthly meetings.
 
Tension and Fear
 While they say their protests have been as benign as chanting or refusing to give up the microphone during the public comment periods, board
members say their presence has disrupted the meetings entirely and created an insidious atmosphere of tension and fear.
Several meetings broke down and had to be abruptly canceled. After repeatedly interrupting the board's meeting last October, Mr. Foster was arrested and charged with disorderly conduct and obstructing governmental administration.
The pitch of the protests reached a critical level at the board's last meeting, in January. After a raucous meeting deteriorated into chaos, one of the protesters shoved a table that crushed Ms. Rodie's left foot, aggravating an injury she said she suffered when kicked at a meeting last year. Janet Bagot, a member of the African People's Political Club, was arrested and charged with assault, disorderly conduct and harassment.
 
Board's Office Closed
 That incident prompted the three-day closing of the board's office, as its employees sought psychological counseling from counselors provided by City Hall.
"This is not a dispute about representation," Mr. Berk, the board chairman, said. "It's about someone trying to disrupt the process of government. It's about someone encouraging an atmosphere of intimidation and lawlessness."
Mr. Golden, the Borough President, declined to discuss Mr. Foster's protests, saying his "15-year record of appointments to the 18 community boards in Brooklyn speaks for itself." Mr. Golden said he agreed to meet with Mr. Foster last April to discuss increasing representation but canceled the meeting after Mr. Foster and six others staged a protest on the steps of Borough Hall.
But City Councilwoman Susan D. Alter, who with Councilman Noach Dear has recommended the board's appointments in the past, said the board has changed to reflect the community's diversity. And, she said, with another round of appointments due in April -- this time on nominations by Ms. Alter, Mr. Dear and two new Council members who represent parts of the district, Una Clark and Anthony Weiner -- that change will continue.
"We've been filling those numbers as people retire, as people leave the board," Ms. Alter said. "In fact, blacks are being put on the board. What Ernie and company keep screaming is, 'Why don't you put in my blacks?' "
 
'Benevolent Dictatorship'
 Colin Moore, the lawyer for Mr. Foster's organizaiton, who has also appeared at the protests, called the board "a benevolent dictatorship" that merely represents the overwhelmingly white political establishment and that feard relinquishing its power to the new majority.
 "The old guard has been there for some time now," Mr. Moore said. "They quite simply are not reading the tea leaves. They want to continue running the board they way they have been."
 Mr. Foster vowed that the protests would continue, including at the board's meeting tonight at Public School 249 on Caton Avenue, until blacks are given what he considers a fair share of seats - perhaps 30 to 35. "We just want to speak our piece," Mr. Foster said. "Every meeting now for two years and if necessary every meeting for 10 years."
 Edward Powell, of the black members and the only one on the board's executive committee, acknowledged an imbalance on the board and, because of it, a historic discrepancy in services in northern Flatbush, but he characterized the protests as counterproductive.
 "I understand the dissatisfaction with the pace at which things are proceeding," said Mr. Powell, the director of a nonprofit volunteer community organization, Umma Group, that serves Flatbush. "But we're not dealing with machinery, where you can tighten a bolt and everything is all right. We're dealing with people."
 Sometimes a neighborhood changes quicker than the political structure that runs it. Sometimes, Mr. Powell said, a neighborhood changes "much quicker than people's hearts."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ernest N. Foster, a local businessman in Brooklyn and a political aspirant, said, "Right now I see Flatbush just like South Africa. The majority are here, but we have no power, economically or politically."; "Their agenda is to obstruct and perpetuate a deep racial mistrust in this community," said Terry Rodie of Community Board 14 about a group of black community advocates. "We cannot let that happen -- whatever it takes." (Photographs by Steve Hart for The New York Times) (pg. B5)
 
Map of Brooklyn showing location of Community Board 14. (pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNITY BOARD (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNITY BOARD (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BROOKLYN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION AND COMMUNITY ROLE; BLACKS (IN US) PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); POPULATION DECLINE (67%); CENSUS (65%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); CITIES (60%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (60%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; RODIE, TERRY; FOSTER, ERNEST N STEVEN J LEE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



355 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: On Frigid Northern Plains, One City Finds Way to New Jobs in Hard Times

BYLINE: By DON TERRY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GRAND FORKS, N.D.

 BODY:
As hard times whip across the region like a winter wind, this small city in the heartland has dodged the worst of the storm so far.
Luck and geography no doubt play a role. The city is two hours from Winnipeg, a city of 560,000, and every weekend Grand Forks is happily awash in Canadians and their money. They come to Grand Forks to shop because goods at home can cost almost double what they do south of the border because of the higher transportation and other costs and smaller markets in Canada. 
 But more important to the city's future, officials here say, is the Growth Fund: an economic development program that provides flexible and often speedy financial assistance to new or expanding businesses.
In the last four years, about 650 jobs have been created in this city of 50,000 residents.
 
'Going Against the Grain'
 To pay for the program, the voters here even overcame the national aversion to new taxes and in 1987 overwhelmingly approved a 1 percent sales tax on most retail items sold here. About a third of the tax money goes into the Growth Fund, while the rest is used for property-tax reduction and for roads and other basic systems.
Although countless American cities have economic development programs, Grand Forks "is going against the grain," said Donald Haider, a professor of public management at the J. L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University.
States and local governments "all across the country are cutting back their economic development programs," Mr. Haider said. "One of the reasons is simply finanical crisis."
There is another difference. The city is small enough, he said, that the program's successes and failures are easily monitored.
 
A Loan, Then Growth
 One of the first businesses to participate in the program was the Stevens Mattress factory in 1988. Since then, Lowell Stevens and his two brothers have watched their company grow like never before.
In large measure because of the program, production at the mattress factory their father founded in 1928 has doubled, and the work force has grown to 30 employees from 10. It is economic development inch by inch.
The Stevens brothers received a low-interest loan of $60,000 to buy a crucial piece of sewing equipment. In return, they promised to hire 10 new employees, but because business improved so quickly they doubled the number.
"The loan and the repayment plan gave us the tool we needed to be competitive," Mr. Stevens said.
Versions of the Grand Forks program have now been adopted by the state government and by several other cities and towns across North Dakota, which continues to struggle against the exodus of its younger citizens, who take their futures and tax dollars with them.
In the 1980's, more than 50,000 residents of this state of fewer than 700,000 people left their towns and farms and scattered across the lonesome plains in search of opportunities not readily found at home: decent paying jobs.
While new jobs are the main goal of the program, city officials also desperately hope to diversify the city's tax base. So far, 19 businesses have received about $3.9 million in low-interest loans, grants and other financial help from the Growth Fund.
Proposals for Growth Fund help are first reviewed by its the staff. Credit and criminal checks are made and other common banking and lending procedures are followed, said John O'Leary, the executive director of the city's Office of Urban Development who is in charge of the Growth Fund's initial reviews.
Then the proposal is turned over to a seven-member committee that either rejects it or recommends its approval by the full City Council. The committee is made up of four members of the Council, the dean of the business college at the University of North Dakota, a businesswoman and a banker.
Rarely does a company's financial package come only from the fund, Mr. O'Leary said. Often the assistance provided by the fund is the final piece in a venture's puzzle.
 
Plans Tailored for Applicants
 Bruce Gjovig, the director of the Center for Innovation and Business Development at the University of North Dakota, said the plans and financial assistance arrangements are tailored to the needs of the applicants to a greater extent than is usually the case in other cities.
"But this is not charity or business welfare," he said. "It has to be a good job that a company is offering to create."
When reviewing a project, the committee also tries to assess "the overall impact on the community," Mr. O'Leary said. He said the city recently rejected a proposal for a potato-flour processing plant that would have strained the city's sewer system.
But when the committee approves a plan, it tries to move quickly. "We've done a deal in as little as seven days," Mr. O'Leary said, adding that the average time from proposal to approval is about six weeks.
At first, city officials estimated each new job would cost about $10,000 to create. But so far, the cost has been about half that.
 
'Localities Aren't Waiting'
 To John Shannon, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute in Washington, Grand Forks is an example of the lengths local officials must go to as the Federal and state governments pull farther and farther back from providing economic assistance to America's cities and towns.
"The big overall significance is that these localities aren't waiting for the boys in the state capital or Washington to bail them out,," Mr. Shannon said. "Six hundred, 700 jobs for a city like Grand Forks is pretty darn significant."
But no one is ready yet to declare the Growth Fund a miracle on the plains. Most jobs it helps create are blue-collar and the hourly wages hover around $5 and $6. Benefits are poor and turnover can be high. On the other hand, the cost of living here is low. A two-bedroom apartment with a garage can be had for $380 a month.
"To be frank, we haven't been very successful in creating high-quality jobs," said Orlin Backes, the chairman of the state's version of the fund. "The first step was to create jobs. Now our goal is to start to become more selective in helping companies that provide high-paying jobs."
 
50 Jobs Lost in Recession
 The Grand Forks effort has suffered some setbacks. The Growth Fund has created 700 jobs, but at least 50 have disappeared in the gale of recession.
And several companies promised more jobs than they could deliever. When that has happened, Mr. O'Leary said, the repayment of the loan has been restructured.
Most companies involved in the program are small businesses, like Stevens Mattress. But the largest grant, $1 million, went to the Energy and Environmental Research Center at the University of North Dakota here for a new building.
"That money, as a grant, was critical to us," said the center's director, Gerald H. Groenewold.
Dr. Groenewold said the center would hire 60 to 90 people because of the building expansion, many of them with doctoral degrees.
"We are creating high-paying jobs for this area," he said.
But the workers earning $6.50 an hour at American Woods are more typical of those who have benefited from the Growth Fund.
"It's not the highest pay in the world but it's steady," said Donna Mireault, who operates a saw at the company, which manufactures yard and patio furniture.
American Woods has used the fund twice for help in building expansion. Bridget Innes, a company vice president, said that partly because of the fund the 7-year-old company had gone from about 100 employees in 1988 to more than 300 today.
"There are a lot of our employees making $20,000 a year," with a lot of overtime, she said. "And some of them are starting to buy houses."
But Steve Dorow, who has worked on the assembly line at the company for 16 months, said he was worried that the new jobs are often too low-paying to offer workers an opportunity to do more than stay in a holding pattern until something better comes along here in Grand Forks or elsewhere.
"People have to leave, whether they want to or not," he said. "We have to change that. But a bunch of low-paying jobs isn't going to do us a lot of good."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bridget Innes (Vice President of American Woods): "There are a lot of our employees making $20,000 a year. And some of them are starting to buy houses"; Steve Dorow (American Woods worker): "A bunch of low-paying jobs isn't going to do us a lot of good"; Lowell Stevens (An owner of the Stevens Mattress Factory in Grand Forks, N.D.): "The loan and the repayment plan gave us the tool we needed to be competitive." (Photographs by Jackie Lorentz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); MANITOBA, CANADA (90%); 

COMPANY: GRAND FORKS GAZETTE (71%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GRAND FORKS (ND); NORTH DAKOTA UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); MANITOBA, CANADA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; TAXATION; SALES TAX; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SMALL BUSINESS; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US) TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); SALES TAX (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); JOB CREATION (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); TRENDS (70%); APPROVALS (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); TAX RELIEF (67%); TAX LAW (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON JOHN P O'LEARY JR (62%); STEVENS MATTRESS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



356 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Calls Bush a 'Car Salesman'

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MANAMA, Bahrain, Feb. 9

 BODY:
Iraq ridiculed President Bush and condemned the United Nations Security Council today as President Saddam Hussein's Government intensified its criticism of international sanctions.
Alluding to Mr. Bush's efforts in behalf of American automakers on his recent trip to Japan, a spokesman for the Iraqi Culture and Information Ministry said Mr. Bush should "concentrate his efforts on succeeding in his new job as a salesman of cars" and stay out of Iraqi affairs, the official Iraqi News Agency reported. 
 Iraq also accused United Nations nuclear weapons inspectors of violating diplomatic immunity rules by entering the Baghdad headquarters of the Arab Scientific Research Council without permission on Friday.
 
Hostility Mounts
 The developments seem to reflect mounting hostility as sanctions imposed after Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990, aggravate hardships in Iraq.
The statements followed reports that Mr. Bush has secretly authorized intensified covert efforts to topple Mr. Hussein and sent Robert M. Gates, the Director of Central Intelligence, to the efforts with allies in the Mideast.
The agency reported that a cultural ministry spokesman, whom it did not identify, had "advised Bush to benefit from the experience and experiments of car salesmen" instead of "falling under the illusion -- he as well as his agents in the region -- that they can interfere in Iraq's internal affairs."
The news agency also quoted Foreign Minister Ahmed Hussein as denouncing the Security Council's decision Wednesday to maintain sanctions against Iraq because it is not complying with conditions of the cease-fire that ended the Persian Gulf war.
The Foreign Minister said that the sanctions have "turned the Security Council into a de facto extension of the foreign policy tools" of forces seeking to topple Saddam Hussein.
The news agency said the visit to the scientific council had been a "deliberate attempt to harm Iraq" by trying to provoke an incident like the one in which Iraqi troops surrounded a United Nations team for several days last summer in an attempt to get back documents on Iraq's nuclear program.
David Livingston, the Bahrain-based representative of the commission overseeing the disposal of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction, said the brief face-off had been settled without trouble.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); BAHRAIN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (74%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) IRAQI NEWS AGENCY (57%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ; JAPAN; UNITED STATES IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); BAHRAIN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (74%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); DESERT STORM (79%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (74%); IMMUNITY (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY (55%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) ; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); ROBERT M GATES (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



357 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Memo;
A Front-Runner in Trouble, Clinton Portrays Himself as a Victim of Attacks

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Feb. 9

 BODY:
Meet Bill Clinton, front-runner. In seven days, he has encountered delirious crowds from Maine to South Carolina, raised hundreds of thousands of dollars and attracted nonstop news coverage.
Meet Bill Clinton, doomed candidate. His formidable lead among New Hampshire voters is contracting, according to the most recent polls. Every new day holds the threat of yet another damaging story that could deliver a killing blow. He is damaged goods. All the Washington commentators say so. 
 It is a slippery slope that the Governor of Arkansas is on these days. As his campaign frantically conducts surveys to gauge the state of play, he has devised a stay-above-the-fray strategy that portrays him as the victim of a feeding frenzy and follows these rules: ignore attacks from Democrats; play up the attacks from Republicans.
This strategy was on display in recent days as Mr. Clinton traveled around New Hampshire delivering a sober message of economic revival before returning to the South, where he spent the weekend seeking physical and political replenishment.
"People ask me sometimes during the course of the last three weeks how I've sustained all these obviously very well-planned and coordinated negative hits," Mr. Clinton said in Jonesboro, Ark., to supporters who had paid $100 each to hear him speak on Saturday. "And I said, 'Oh, this is just an ordinary election week in Arkansas.' "
 
Focusing on Republicans
 But in recent days Senators Tom Harkin and Bob Kerrey have seized on reports about how Mr. Clinton escaped the Vietnam War draft to raise new questions about his candidacy. On Monday, Mr. Clinton planned to huddle with his campaign consultants on a plane trip back to New Hampshire from which reporters were barred.
His advisers have been saying there is little to be gained by responding to either of the Democratic Senators because Mr. Clinton remains far ahead of them in the polls. And he has boxed himself out of attacking former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts, who has most benefited from his latest weaknesses, because until recently Mr. Clinton had been praising him profusely on the campaign trail.
So there is little left to attack but the Republicans, most of them unnamed, who he said are undermining his candidacy. This approach, his advisers hope, has the added advantage of allowing Mr. Clinton to look Presidential by focusing his sights on the general election rather than the primaries.
"New Hampshire voters are very sophisticated," said Stan Greenberg, Mr. Clinton's poll taker. "They already have a front-runner rationalization for any garbage that materializes."
 
Behind on Repairs
 This may be so, but the Clinton campaign has so far done little to patch up the paper cuts that have reinforced the impression of a bleeding campaign. Senator Sam Nunn, the Georgia Democrat who heads the Senate Armed Services Committee, for instance, endorsed Mr. Clinton in December, and a word of support from him could have aided the campaign's effort on the draft question. But the Governor never contacted him, and Mr. Nunn was left instead to express his doubts about whether Mr. Clinton was telling the truth.
That important supporters like Mr. Nunn are left untended exposes a weakness in a campaign that has had little opportunity to sink its organizational roots after first being swept into front-runner status by early polls and then knocked about by questions of credibility. It has been left instead to Clinton organizers at the state level around the country to do the bulk of the damage control.
But so far, the campaign's problems have had little measurable effect on fund raising. Mr. Clinton's New York organizers hope an event Monday night in Manhattan will raise $500,000.
 
Frustration on Draft Question
 Lately, Mr. Clinton has begun expressing puzzlement and frustration that it has fallen to him to prove that his explanations about issues like the draft deferment he received in the Vietnam War era are true.
A former executive secretary of the Hot Springs, Ark., draft board and the Reserve Officers Training Corps recruiter who dealt with Mr. Clinton have both said recently in published reports that Mr. Clinton attempted to pull strings to avoid being drafted.
Mr. Clinton has responded by saying that although he received the R.O.T.C. deferment for two months in 1969, he had a change of heart and asked to be reclassified as draft-eligible shortly before a draft lottery was passed by Congress. He never served because the number he drew was never called.
If he survives the furor about his draft status, Mr. Clinton and his advisers say, they expect future attacks. They also say they are convinced, for the moment at least, that the public will recoil from anything that begins to resemble what Mr. Clinton describes as "piling on."
"The people are very angry about anybody's attempt to make this election about anything but them," Mr. Clinton said after his appearance in Jonesboro this weekend. "They don't want this election to be another standard negative election where they're asked to vote against somebody who's been drug through the mud."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (US) US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



358 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Iowa;
A Lot to Be Said but No One to Listen

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: POLK CITY, Iowa, Feb. 9

 BODY:
John L. Moeckly, a sixth-generation cattle breeder in the gentle hills here north of Des Moines, has a message for President Bush: "I don't know why he took his junk car people with him to Japan and didn't take beef and pork producers. The Japanese are tired of eating fish heads and rice."
Edith Southwick of Milo, a Burger King employee, wants the Democratic Presidential candidates to know that all is not tranquil in her southeast Iowa town: "We have gangs, drugs, racial problems. We have rapes, shootings, murders -- all in a small town." 
 And Elmer Hoffman, a 66-year-old retired truck driver from Sioux City on the state's western border, offers this advice to all the candidates: "Let's take care of the elderly. A lot of people ain't got no insurance. And the middle class have to be taken care of."
Four years ago, chances are that all three of these Iowans could have spoken their minds directly to the Presidential contenders, who practically moved into this state, often posing for pictures with barnyard animals, to woo supporters in the months leading up to the Iowa caucuses.
 
No Candidates, No Talk
 This year, with the absence of serious contests in either the Democratic or Republican caucuses, there are no longer earnest-faced candidates acting as if the world revolves around the opinions of residents of Altoona, Ottumwa or Council Bluffs.
So the only opportunity for Iowans to be heard even remotely above the din in New Hampshire will be Monday evening, when they express their preferences at 2,166 precinct meetings that will be the first official test of the 1992 campaign. But with Senator Tom Harkin as the favorite son, other Democrats are forfeiting Iowa, and in the Republican caucuses, there is no challenge to President Bush.
With Presidential candidates all but ignoring Iowans this year, the issues addressed in the national political dialogue have decidedly shifted from past primary seasons. For what Iowans have to say about the condition of the country is not always the same as what the citizens say in New Hampshire, where the first primary will be held on Feb. 18.
In interviews around the state, Iowans, who had grown accustomed to receiving a disproportionate share of political attention, say their issues are getting short shrift this time. Their biggest complaint was the lack of discourse on agriculture. While they commended the candidates for emphasizing the need for better health care, voters in this state, which has a large elderly population, said they wanted to hear more. Though economic conditions are not as tough here as in New Hampshire, Iowans also cited the economy as one of their biggest concerns.
 
Quiet, Not Frenzy
 "For the last 12 years, Midwest and agriculture issues were front and center on the national agenda," said Lowell Junkins, the Democratic candidate for Governor here in 1986. "This year, there isn't any debate about agriculture. There's no serious debate about Midwest problems. It's more about the problems of the industrial Northeast."
Unlike the weeks before the caucuses four years ago, this year interest groups are quiet, and there are no signs of the American Association of Retired Persons or the Iowa Farm Unity Coalition, which in the past have set up shop to mobilize voters behind their issues.
"It's like political tumbleweed blowing through the streets of Des Moines," said Phillip J. Roeder, who was spokesman for a Iowa Democratic Party during the 1988 campaign.
"The candidates focus in on what's going to provide them the most good locally in those early tests," Mr. Roeder said. "And there are just not a lot of corn and cattle operations in New Hampshire."
Even so, Mr. Moeckly, 63, and his wife, Marilyn, 62, owners of one of the largest farms in the area, sat around their kitchen table Saturday evening, voicing disappointment that the candidates are not talking about farming.
 
'Let's Get Some Exports'
 In 1988, Mrs. Moeckly said she supported Senator Bob Dole, a Kansas Republican, while Mr. Moeckly did not vote. This time, she said they both supported Mr. Bush because "he knows how politics works, and I don't believe that we'd better change now." But Mrs. Moeckly said she would like Mr. Bush "to work harder on opening foreign markets -- let's get some exports."
But smaller farmers, like Linda Terry of the southwestern Iowa town of Greenfield who works in Mr. Harkin's office in Des Moines, blame Republicans for troubles they have been having in recent years. Ms. Terry also complained that she has heard only two Democrats, Mr. Harkin and Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, talk about agriculture.
"Four years ago, everybody had a farm policy or there wasn't any point in coming to Iowa," said Ms. Terry, 42. "We've lost several hundred farmers in the last four years. The farmers that are left, a whole tier of them, have come under financial stress."
Though Ms. Southwick, the Burger King worker, said she was particularly concerned about crime in her rural community, she also called on the candidates to energize the economy. She said she would probably vote for Mr. Harkin because he was from Iowa.
Kathryn Schoen, a 63-year-old court clerk from Des Moines, said she had planned to vote for Mr. Harkin until she thought about his vote to raise Senators' pay.
"I like the idea of making jobs and helping the middle class," she said. "But I tell you what bothered me about Harkin is he voted for that $23,000 raise. That wasn't quite kosher. I liked him till then."
 
Bush Supporter Unaffected
 One voter who seems unaffected by the absence of a contested race here is Tom Bernau, a 31-year-old lawyer from Des Moines. He said he backed Mr. Bush at the caucus here four years ago and intended to do so again.
Mr. Bernau said his only qualm about the President was his handling of the economy. "I think he could have been more attuned to economic issues," he said.
Mark Pogge, a college administrator from Des Moines, also ranks the economy as the top issue. But he said he was torn between two Democrats, Mr. Harkin and Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas.
Mr. Pogge, 35, said he was distressed that he could not confer with the candidates personally to seek their views, as he did in 1988.
Disputing the notion that issues of significance to Iowans are not being addressed this year is Senator Paul Simon, an Illinois Democrat who did his share of posing with hogs here when he ran for President in 1988.
"One thing that really surprised me when I was a Presidential candidate, and I think television plays a major role here," he said, "is that whether you're in New Hampshire or Iowa or New Orleans or Portland, Ore., with rare exception the questions are pretty much the same. We really have become one nation much more than people realize."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iowans who have grown accustomed to a disproportionate share of political attention in previous campaigns are getting short shrift this year. John and Marilyn Moeckly, voicing disappointment that the candidates are not talking about farming, would like the President "to work harder on opening foreign markets -- let's get some exports." They own one of the largest farms near Des Moines. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (99%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SIOUX CITY NEWSPAPERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IOWA UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); IOWA, USA (99%); MIDWEST USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MAMMALS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MEATS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (74%); PORK (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ANIMALS (71%); AGING (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: HARKIN, TOM (SEN); BERKE, RICHARD L GEORGE W BUSH (78%); TOM HARKIN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



359 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Democrats;
Tsongas Surges as Voters Focus on Economics

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Feb. 9

 BODY:
The New Hampshire Democratic primary enters its final week with all the ingredients of a political cliffhanger: Former Senator Paul E. Tsongas is pulling even with Gov. Bill Clinton in the public opinion polls and experts say the race is still very much up for grabs.
Even a veteran of the New Hampshire primary wars like Joseph Grandmaison, a former state Democratic chairman and a supporter of Mr. Clinton, confesses, "I've had a terrible time figuring out the dynamics of this race." 
 One of the few certainties here: The voters of New Hampshire are acutely focused on the economy and hungry for detailed plans and programs that are intended to heal it. At one candidate forum after another, New Hampshire residents rose to ask what candidates will do about home foreclosures, lost jobs, shaky health care and competition from abroad.
 
The Challenge for Clinton
 Political experts say this hunger for candidates with "comprehensive plans" and the relentless emphasis on jobs has much to do with Mr. Clinton's success so far, and is one reason Mr. Tsongas has emerged as the principal Clinton alternative.
The latest Boston Globe and WBZ-TV poll suggests that Mr. Tsongas may be moving into a virtual tie with Mr. Clinton, whose campaign has been buffeted for two weeks by tabloid newspaper accusations of extramarital affairs and by questions about his draft status during the Vietnam War.
The challenge for Mr. Clinton is how to force the spotlight back to his message and away from the character questions that have dominated his news coverage in recent weeks.
With a promise to restore the "forgotten middle class," Mr. Clinton advances "strategies" for health care, education and economic development, sweetened with promises of a tax cut for the middle class.
Mr. Tsongas, meanwhile, says he plans to stick to his stern appeal for an economic program to rebuild the nation's manufacturing base. Styling himself as a pro-business liberal, he parts with many in his party by rejecting a middle-class tax cut as poor policy, and championing a cut in the tax on capital gains, targeted to encourage long-term investment.
 
Tsongas Takes Off
 Mr. Tsongas, considered the most improbable of long shots when he announced his campaign a year ago, was happily, almost giddily, proclaiming that his campaign had finally gained critical mass this weekend. "I lived without it for 10 months," he said in an interview, "So I know it when I see it."
The Boston Globe poll made public tonight showed Mr. Clinton at 26 percent, Mr. Tsongas at 26 percent, Mr. Kerrey at 11 percent, Mr. Harkin at 7 percent and former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California at 5 percent, with the proportion of undecided voters growing to 18 percent. The poll, based on interviews conducted Saturday and today, had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 4 percentage points and included interviews with 560 people considered likely to vote in the Democratic primary.
The Los Angeles Times today published the results of its latest New Hampshire poll, conducted Monday through Friday, showing Mr. Clinton with a slim lead, within the margin of sampling error.
Many political professionals here say that much of the electorate is undecided or only loosely committed to a candidate, and predict a roller coaster of a final week, capped by a final, nationally televised debate on CNN Sunday night.
The Globe reported that the movement toward Mr. Tsongas was particularly strong Saturday and suggested it was fed by doubts about Mr. Clinton's character after reports last week that he had sought to avoid the draft during the Vietnam War. Mr. Clinton denied those reports, as he denied earlier accusations in the tabloid Star that he had a 12-year affair.
The men long expected to be the principal beneficiaries if Mr. Clinton falters -- Mr. Harkin and Mr. Kerrey -- are still trying to ignite their campaigns. Mr. Harkin was, by necessity, in Iowa this weekend, where that state's caucuses will officially begin the nominating season on Monday.
The self-declared "Real Democrat" in the race was on television here, however, with a tough commercial blasting policies that force "American workers to compete against slave labor."
Mr. Kerrey, meanwhile, continues to emphasize his plan for national health insurance, but is sharpening his focus on the economy; television commercials now present him as a proven job-creator as Governor of Nebraska and as an entrepreneur. "I believe Americans understand we're in the economic fight of our lives," he said on ABC's "This Week" with David Brinkley. "And we're ready to do battle."
The draft issue has also highlighted, once again, Mr. Kerrey's record as a Medal of Honor winner who lost part of his leg in Vietnam. The contrast was heightened when his campaign this weekend brought in Max Cleland, former head of the Veterans Administration and now Secretary of State for Georgia. Mr. Cleland lost both legs and an arm in Vietnam, and when he and Mr. Kerrey embraced they produced one of the most powerful visuals of the campaign.
 
Next Stop, the South
 While this drama plays out, Democrats around the country are straining to read the murky mind of New Hampshire. The Iowa caucuses on Monday have been treated almost as an afterthought by the party and the various campaigns, which have ceded the state to Mr. Harkin, the state's junior Senator. New Hampshire is the big game, and the stakes are huge.
If Mr. Clinton wins on Feb. 18, then rolls into the primaries March 3 and 10 in the friendly South, many Democrats believe that he will wrap up the nomination fast. The concern among some in the party is that New Hampshire will produce a false positive for Mr. Clinton, that his showing here is as much a reflection of the weakness of the opposition as his own political strength.
Has he truly prevailed over the accusations of infidelity, or would he carry that baggage into a fall campaign where the Republicans would know how to use it? Mr. Clinton gained considerable support because many Democrats considered him the strongest contender for the fall election; Mr. Kerrey's allies are now trying to turn the "electability" argument against the Arkansas Governor.
Conversely, a victory here by Mr. Tsongas raises its own questions; when the race moves South, the former Massachusetts Senator will not have the leisure of ten months of painstaking, voter-by-voter campaigning that he had here in New Hampshire, nor will he have the advantage of coming from a neighboring state. Super Tuesday is a tarmac, satellite-dish and 30-second-commercial campaign that demands money and media savvy -- not Mr. Tsongas's strong points so far.
These questions keep stirring the anxious talk in Washington and elsewhere in the country about another candidate entering the race.
Mr. Tsongas, keenly aware that many in his party still cannot accept him as the "Clinton alternative," says he will raise "the 50 percent courage gap" with any late entering candidate: Where were they when Mr. Bush, whose approval rating is now in the 40's, was close to 90 percent in the polls? Still, the buzz continues, and the write-in effort mounted last week for Governor Mario M. Cuomo (although not endorsed by the Governor) only feeds it.
Mr. Cuomo himself lurks on the border, quite literally. He will speak at Harvard Wednesday night on the state of the economy, and will doubtless draw considerable press attention and will doubtlesss protest that the press misreads his intentions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former Senator Paul E. Tsongas, written off as a long shot when he entered the race a year ago, has used his just-the-facts-ma'am economic campaign to become the most competitive Clinton alternative. Well-wishers greeted him yesterday as he arrived for a town meeting in Nashua, N.H. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times); The only opportunity for Iowans to be heard above the din of New Hampshire will be tonight, when approximately 2,166 precincts will tally votes in the first electoral test of the 1992 campaign. Senator Tom Harkin, clearly Iowa's favorite son, signed an autograph yesterday for Andy Siegal in Ottumwa. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (99%); IOWA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NASHUA, NH, USA (78%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY BOSTON GLOBE (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW HAMPSHIRE UNITED STATES (99%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (99%); IOWA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NASHUA, NH, USA (78%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION; PRIMARIES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); TAX INCENTIVES (86%); TAX LAW (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); TAX RELIEF (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (67%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (63%); FORECLOSURE (54%); 

PERSON: TSONGAS, PAUL E; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); TONER, ROBIN BILL CLINTON (92%); JERRY BROWN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



360 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
OPEC's president said he would press for a significant cut in oil production to prop up prices, which have dropped 20 percent since November. The official, who is also Algeria's oil minister, said he would ask OPEC's 12 members, which are scheduled to meet on Wednesday, to reduce production by about 6 percent. The average price of OPEC crude oil is now about $16 a barrel, compared with the group's goal of $21. Output has increased to an 11-year high of 24.2 million barrels a day. [Page D1.] 
 Argentina has switched currencies, for the fifth time in 21 years. In halting the use of the austral and returning to the peso, President Menem hopes to signal that stable times are here. [D1.]
U.S. companies and business groups are seeking an end to the trade and investment boycott of Vietnam, a country where American companies say they expect to do well. The quiet lobbying is prompted by a perception that the Japanese have positioned themselves to grab many contracts. [D2.]
 
Companies
Big toy companies are playing it safe, despite coming off one of the most profitable seasons in years. The new toys take their cues from popular television shows and soon-to-released movies. [D1.] When the American International Toy Fair opens today, many toy marketers will take the opportunity to introduce the ads meant to sell the toys to consumers. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D7.]
 
The Economy
Some executives say the President's health-care proposals could make their problems worse, because the plan does not go far enough to slow the increase in U.S. medical spending. [D1.]
Makers of home refrigerators and freezers are likely to face a new and costly challenge: finding alternatives to ozone-damaging chemicals sooner than they had planned. They were already trying to meet increasingly strict energy efficiency requirements. [D2.]
The staff of the State Financial Control Board has told Governor Cuomo that Mayor Dinkins's four-year fiscal plan "is comprehensive, it is complete, and it poses a viable approach to solving the city's financial problems." [B1.]
Some Long Island residents have joined a legion of officials who favor the public takeover of private water utilities. [B1.]
 
The Media Business
The forced resignation of Granada Television's executive chairman has raised fears that high-quality programming will be sacrificed in the quest for short-term profits in Britain's increasingly competitive television industry. Granada's hits have included "Brideshead Revisited" and "The Jewel in the Crown." [D1.]
A Turner Network Television executive says the honor of being the first cable channel to carry the Olympic Games is worth the $20 million it will lose on the deal. [D8.]
The head of News Communications Inc. remains convinced that he can make money by expanding in the free-distribution newspaper business in the New York area. [D8.]
Magazineland has been abuzz over a report that Hearst would pay Elizabeth Tilberis, the editor of British Vogue, $1.25 million a year to salvage Harper's Bazaar. The accuracy of the report has not been determined. Deirdre Carmody: Magazine Notes. [D8.]
 
Today's Columns
Many credit market analysts say the benefits from the Fed's bold Dec. 20 move to cut interest rates have been exceedingly modest. Pressure is building for the central bank to do more. Kenneth N. Gilpin: Credit Markets. [D1.]
The auto parts industry is changing in ways that will benefit some suppliers and hurt others. Analysts say some smaller companies hold promise for investors. Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NCOCD (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (50%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: ALGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEWS COMMUNICATIONS INC (60%); TURNER NETWORK TELEVISION INC (50%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); CARTELS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); TAKEOVERS (73%); LOBBYING (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); CABLE TELEVISION (65%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (50%); OLYMPICS (50%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (50%); OZONE DEPLETION (50%); 

PERSON: CARLOS SAUL MENEM (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



361 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Aristide Condemns U.S. Policy

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Feb. 9

 BODY:
Angered by reports that Haitians are being mistreated as they return home, Haiti's exiled President asserts that the United States is using a double standard to deny political asylum to refugees from his homeland.
In an interview on Saturday night, the ousted leader, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, condemned a policy that he said shelters refugees from Communist Cuba but returns Haitians to a country governed by a repressive military. 
 "It's a policy of discrimination," he said in Caracas, where he has been living since he was ousted in a military coup last Sept. 30.
"Even President Bush has recognized that Haiti is a case of a totalitarian regime," Father Aristide said.
Father Aristide said that some of the Haitians sent back last week from the American naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, have been detained and beaten.
Father Aristide, whose chances of returning to power depend heavily on foreign pressure, also criticized a Bush Administration move to soften the embargo against Haiti to press the military to allow his return to power.
United States officials argue that after four months, the embargo has only increased malnutrition and unemployment.
More than 2,000 Haitians were sent home last week from the naval base at Guantanamo Bay, where they had been housed and fed since they fled their country on rickety boats in the aftermath of the coup.
More than 11,000 Haitians who have fled since last October remain at the naval base awaiting immigration interviews and rulings on their asylum claims.
Immigration officials say that 1,402 have been released to the United States to be considered for permanent political asylum, based on the legal standard of a well-founded fear of persecution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (99%); CUBA (95%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: CARACAS, VENEZUELA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; GUANTANAMO BAY (CUBA); CUBA UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (99%); CUBA (95%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CARACAS, VENEZUELA (55%); 

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; ASYLUM (POLITICAL); ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); REFUGEES (91%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COUPS (90%); NAVIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); ARMED FORCES (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (REV); BROOKE, JAMES GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



362 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
AN ABUSED LIFE, A CRIPPLED SYSTEM
The story of Yaakov Riegler, who died in 1990 after repeated beatings by his mother, is about an affectionate retarded boy and a mother who was overwhelmed by the unending tasks of homemaking. It is about a child welfare system that was unable, despite repeated warnings, to help the child. And it is about a pediatrician who, though he knew of the mother's abusive history and was called on several times to treat Yaakov's wounds, said he recognized in the Riegler household only a harried mother, not a battered child. A1.
 
FEAR BECOMES REALITY IN CONEY ISLAND 
 Ruth Mitchell anguished over the safety of her young boys in their crumbling, crime-infested Coney Island neighborhood, but on Saturday afternoon, it was Ms. Mitchell whose life was claimed suddenly, ended by a bullet that seemed to come out of nowhere. Last night, the police announced the arrests of two teen-agers in the killing. A1.
 
NEW PLANS FOR THE CITY'S SCHOOLS
New York City Schools Chancellor Joseph A. Fernandez is fashioning a plan to lengthen the school day by an hour and the school year by 25 days in an effort both to pump up student skills and to make a bid for a hefty share of the $1.1 billion that New York City hopes to gain through bond refinancing. A1.
 
WHERE THE FEDERAL BUDGET WILL HURT
At a time when New York City is seeking an additional $200 million in Federal money to close a gap in its budget, city officials say President Bush's proposed election-year budget will reduce Federal aid to the city by as much as $428 million. That estimate came from City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman, who released a report that tallied up the the potential impact on programs like health care and public housing. B7.
 
TWO MORE ARRESTS IN QUEENS KILLING
A parole violator and his wife, who had been sought by the law-enforcement authorities as far as Portugal in the killing of two sisters, ages 2 and 5, during a robbery in their Queens home on Feb. 2, were arrested before dawn yesterday as they slept in a Bronx tenement, the police said. B3.
 
Libraries, always loved and underfinanced, struggle to persevere. Metro Matters, B2.
 
A museum where "you can make a mess and walk away." SoHo Journal, B3.
 
Mayor David N. Dinkins visits Irish Republican Army member Joseph Doherty in prison. B2.
 
REGION
 
WELFARE REFORM IN NEW JERSEY
Much of the debate over New Jersey's sweeping welfare revision, signed into law last month by Gov. Jim Florio and subsequently endorsed by President Bush, has focused on a provision cutting off new benefits for welfare mothers who have additional children. But while that is the most radical change, the total package includes a complex set of incentives and punishments. News analysis, B8.
 
LONG ISLAND AIDS CLINIC IS CLOSING
The only clinic on Long Island providing free experimental treatment for AIDS or H.I.V. infection is being forced to close because the Federal Government has withdrawn its financing. The clinic, at the Stony Brook, L.I., campus of the State University of New York, serves more than 225 AIDS patients from Nassau and Suffolk Counties, which have the largest number of cases of any suburban area of the country. B8.
 
MINORITY ACHIEVEMENT IN RICHER SCHOOLS
Insurgent parents in Princeton, N.J., have begun an attack on low achievement levels for minority students and a school administration that, the group believes, does not do enough to improve minority achievement. In the process, the parents have revealed differing priorities that, they say, may exist in hundreds of suburban school districts with small but distinct minority and immigrant populations. B9.
 
Neediest Cases B2
The Traffic Map B8
Chronicle B6

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY SCHOOLS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CITIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ARRESTS (88%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); CHILDREN (77%); BONDS (76%); HOMICIDE (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); ADOLESCENTS (74%); PAROLE (74%); CHILD WELFARE (72%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); LEGISLATION (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%); PUBLIC HOUSING (62%); ROBBERY (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



363 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela, Wary After Coup Attempt, Censors Press

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Feb. 9

 BODY:
Wary that plotters of an unsuccessful coup may be depicted as heroes, the Government has stationed censors in newsrooms and confiscated stacks of magazines in some of the strictest press controls imposed since the advent of civilian rule in 1958.
President Carlos Andres Perez contends that the restrictions, adopted after the failed military putsch last Tuesday, are a temporary step to calm the public. 
 "We have said, don't exalt the man who attempted the military coup," Mr. Perez told journalists on Saturday night. "Let's not make a starring figure out of a felon who betrayed the armed forces and caused death and damage."
Using telephone calls, scissors and, when necesssary, police raids, Interior Ministry censors have worked the hardest to eliminate photographs and articles centering on Hugo Chavez Frias, the army lieutenant colonel who led the uprising. Loyalist Government forces put down the rebellion, but only after clashes in which about 80 people were killed. More than 1,000 soldiers have been arrested.
 
Approved by Lawmakers
 Mr. Perez, who was almost killed in the coup attempt, has emphasized in interviews that Venezuelan lawmakers approved the suspension of press freedom and the limits on other civil liberties last week.
Journalists say the censorship violates one of Latin America's oldest traditions of press freedom and exposes the deep insecurity of the Government, which lacks popular support.
"The media are not responsible for the coup attempt," said Francisco Solorzano, secretary of Venezuela's National Journalists Association. "Furthermore, the censorship measures are a kind of attack against one of the bastions of democracy."
Television, newspapers and magazines are under orders not to broadcast or to print Colonel Chavez's picture. To enforce the order, the police seized copies of two news magazines, Zeta and Elite, that displayed cover photos of the 37-year-old rebel commander wearing his red paratrooper's beret.
Late last week, El Diario de Caracas newspaper told its readers in an advertisement that its Saturday issue would carry a full-color supplement with exclusive photos of the military uprising. When readers went to newsstands on Saturday morning, they found that police officers had confiscated most copies of the supplement.
The Inter-American Press Association's committee on press freedom plans to issue a statement on Monday condemning Venezuela's censorship measures.
"The way to fight for freedom and democracy is not by applying the same measures that dictators apply to the press," Eduardo Ulibarri, president of the committee, said today in a telephone interview from Costa Rica, where he is editor in chief of La Nacion newspaper.
Censors have also sought to prevent publication of articles or advertisements that suggest that the coup attempt enjoyed popular support or was widely backed within the military.
In one of several confrontations with major dailies here, an Interior Ministry censor allowed publication of El Nacional today only after editors removed an article about a news conference by a retired military general.
 
Retired Officers Cite Corruption
 In full-page advertisements that ran on Friday, an association of retired military officers cited corruption and poor administration by the last four civilian governments as causes of coup attempts.
Mr. Perez served a five-year term as President in the 1970's and was elected again to the post in 1988. Support for his Government has plummeted in the last three years because of corruption scandals and economic austerity measures.
"The Government is absolutely scared," said Roberto Fabricio, a vice president of the Inter-American Press Association's freedom committee, who witnessed the argument on Saturday night between El Nacional's editors and the censor.
"This is the ultimate symbol of weakness: when a democratically elected President cannot let a newspaper publish a retired general's press conference."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Venezuelan Government has stationed censors in newsrooms in an attempt to prevent plotters of the unsuccessful coup last week from being depicted as heroes. At El Nacional, a Caracas newspaper, secret police agents interrogated journalists on Saturday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); COSTA RICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (70%); 

CITY: CARACAS, VENEZUELA (50%); 

COMPANY: MEDIA EDGE (54%); INTER-AMERICAN PRESS ASSOCIATION (56%); INTERIOR MINISTRY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN PRESS ASSOCIATION (56%); INTERIOR MINISTRY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VENEZUELA VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); COSTA RICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (70%); CARACAS, VENEZUELA (50%); 

SUBJECT: CENSORSHIP; GOVERNMENT INFORMATION POLICIES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA COUPS (96%); CENSORSHIP (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); APPROVALS (74%); POLITICS (72%); FELONIES (70%); ARRESTS (69%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



364 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Bush Budget: Officials See Local Damage

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
At a time when New York City is seeking an additional $200 million in Federal money to close its own fiscal gap, city officials looking in detail at President Bush's proposed budget have concluded that it would reduce Federal aid to various city agencies by as much as $428 million.
That estimate came yesterday from City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman, who released a report tallying the potential economic impact of the President's proposal on a variety of city programs, including those that provide health care, support public housing and assist the homeless. 
 Despite the cutbacks, however, Ms. Holtzman said she calculated, "using generous estimates," that the President's budget would increase Federal aid to a handful of other city programs by as much as $116 million and would contribute an additional $70 million to its capital budget for sewage treatment alone. But she cautioned that such money, earmarked for specific programs, would not help the city narrow its budget gap.
"People in New York are really going to be hurt very badly," said Ms. Holtzman, who last week announced her candidacy for the Democratic nomination for the United States Senate seat currently held by Alfonse M. D'Amato, a Long Island Republican. "This is more than a body blow, this could cause very serious harm."
 
Big Boos, Small Cheers
 Though City Hall officials said that they had not done the mathematical analysis needed to support or refute Ms. Holtzman's report, they noted that the reductions put forth by the President, however alarming, were far from set in stone.
"Many of these cuts have been proposed by President Bush and President Reagan before him," said Judy L. Chesser, Mayor David N. Dinkins's chief Washington lobbyist. "Most of them have been rejected by Congress in the past and are not likely to pass this time around."
Philip R. Michael, the Mayor's budget director, said that the city was pressing Congress to resist the cuts, and that he remained optimistic that the city would ultimately wrest from the Federal Government more money to fend off the effects of the recession and balance its next fiscal year budget of $29.4 billion.
And while the tone of Ms. Holtzman's report was ominous, both she and Ms. Chesser, who critiqued the proposed Federal budget in a memorandum to the Mayor last month, found some faint reasons for praise.
 
Cuts in Housing
 Both pointed to potential increases in Head Start, a pre-school program for low-income families, as well in programs meant to prevent infant mortality and lead poisoning and to assist New Yorkers afflicted with AIDS and tuberculosis. Both also cited the availibility of special coastal cities grants that could be used to build sewage-treatment plants.
But she said those proposed increases pale when compared to the laundry list of reductions that the President has put forward.
Many of the cuts, Ms. Holtzman and Ms. Chesser contended, would hurt those New Yorkers most in need, including those living in or seeking to live in low-income housing.
Public housing grants and other housing programs would be cut by $128 million and the New York City Housing Authority would lose $28 million in Federal funds, Ms. Holtzman said. Financing for the development of any additional public housing units would also be eliminated, Ms. Chesser said.
The city's Home Heating program, which provides subsidies to working class families, would be reduced by $22 million under the proposed budget, and the Emergency Assistance program, which helps homeless families, would lose $40 million, Ms. Holtzman said.
The increase in additional heath-care costs borne by the city under the President's budget would also be large, both Ms. Holtzman and Ms. Chesser predicted. The budget's ceiling on the amount that the Federal Government reimburses the city for Medicaid would cost the city about $63 million, Ms. Holtzman said. And though Ms. Chesser did not provide specific estimates, she said she foresaw the city being stung by proposed cuts in money earmarked for minority health care programs, primary-care training and financial aid for nurses working in inner-city hospitals.
Ms. Holtzman, echoing the comments of some transit officials, said she feared that the President's budget might jeopardize the new $1.25 subway and bus fare by eliminating $90 million in operating subsidies to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
 
Hopes of Reversal
 And she said immigrants would suffer as well. Federal financing of State Legalization Impact Assistance Grants, which provide reimbursement for services extended to immigrants, would be cut by about $20 million on the city level, Ms. Holtzman said. Federal cash subsidies and medical assistance providing for the settlement of refugees in the city would be cut by $21 million, Ms. Holtzman said.
But for all the grim predictions, both Ms. Holtzman and Ms. Chesser said they believed many of the cuts could be reversed if the city's voters growled loud enough for their elected officials to hear.
"There doesn't appear to be any sentiment in Congress for drastically cutting state and local budgets," Ms. Chesser said. "I think we're more likely to get an increase."


GRAPHIC: Estimate of gains and losses to New York City in 1992, in millions.
 
 
CUTS: $428 total
 
Public Housing: $128
Metropolitan Transit Authority: 90
Medicaid and other public assistance: 63
Homeless family shelters: 40
N.Y.C. Housing Authority: 28
Home Heating: 22
Refugee resettlement: 21
Aid to immigrants: 20
Community Services Block Grant: 16
 
INCREASES: $116 total
 
Education: $62
Law enforcement: 25
Headstart: 20
Food for women and children: 9
Other: 10
Graph: "City Hall: How Bush's Budget Affects the City"
 An additional $70 million would become available to the City through coastal cities grants for the construction of sewage treatment plants. (Source: Comptroller's Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FEDERAL AID (US) BUDGETS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); MAYORS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); MATHEMATICS (71%); FAMILY (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); LEAD POISONING (70%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TUBERCULOSIS (68%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (66%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%); LEAD (50%); POISONINGS (50%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES; HOLTZMAN, ELIZABETH (COMPTROLLER); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



365 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Private L.I. Water Rates Spur Drive for Takeover

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: FLORAL PARK, L.I.

 BODY:
When 100 homeowners settled into their cold metal folding chairs at the American Legion hall here the other night, a subject that falls near the bottom of the financial agenda for most Americans -- water service and what it costs -- provoked an outburst of passion.
All were residents of this Nassau County village made up mostly of retirees and middle-income families struggling through the worst recession in decades. To make matters worse, they are customers of a private water utility that charges double, or even triple, what nearby municipal utilities charge -- as much as $899 a year for an average family. 
 These homeowners, the Waterbill Watchdogs, have joined a legion of municipal, county and state officials who favor public takeover of private water utilities in Nassau County.
 
'Obscene' Bills
 "The more you look into this, the more obscene it becomes," said Charlie Desmond, the business manager for a coffee service and one of the founders of the Floral Park group, whose members buy their water from the Jamaica Water Supply Company, a private investor-owned utility.
"The disparity in what consumers pay is huge, and it's just not fair," said Richard M. Kessel, director of the State Consumer Protection Board, who is among those advocating public takeover of the private water companies in Nassau.
Even the state's Public Service Commission, which regulates the rates charged by the state's more than 400 private utilities, acknowledges problems.
 
'Concerned About the Rates'
 "We are concerned about the rates charged by Jamaica Water," said Peter A. Bradford, the commission's chairman. Although his agency approved a series of rate increases in recent years that have widened the disparity in prices with municipal water companies, he said his staff recommended reductions in Jamaica Water's prices last year, and might order a rollback when an investigation of the company's prices and service is completed later this year.
The dispute is far from new, having roots in the evolution of water-supply systems that extend back more than a century, when private companies dug the wells and built viaducts or pipelines in much of the nation. Gradually, most private utilities were bought by cities, counties or states as the communities they served grew larger.
In Nassau County, where four large private companies maintain a checkerboard of service areas, the call for lower bills, revamped regulations and outright takeover has intensified during the recession.
The disparity in prices was reflected in a 1990 study by Mr. Kessel's office and the Town of North Hempstead, which showed that average bills during June, July and August from the three largest private water utilities in Nassau were two to four times higher than those by the county's municipal companies.
In a separate study of bills for all of 1991, Mr. Desmond's group said the private companies had charged their customers who used 200,000 gallons -- a typical amount for families with children -- three times as much as their municipal counterparts. Jamaica Water, which charged $899, was the most expensive.
The company has been pumping water from Long Island's acquifer since 1877, and with 130,000 customers is New York State's second largest water company, behind New York City's municipal water supply system. The company insists that it, like its customers, has been victimized by the region's fiscal problems and archaic regulations.
"The driving force behind our prices is taxes," said Kevin Conroy, a company vice president. He maintained that the best way to cut water bills was to cut the company's taxes.
"What would benefit our customers most is tax abatements," he said.
Jamaica Water, like most other private utilities, pays property taxes on its land and buildings and other taxes on its income that are not paid by municipal utilities. Its costs are passed on to its customers. But studies by New York State and citizen watchdog groups like the one here show that Jamaica Water's tax bills do not fully account for its higher rates.
"The very fact Jamaica Water is investor-owned means that it is much more profit oriented and needs to charge more than a municipal utility," Mr. Kessel said.
 
A Diversified Corporation
 Based in Lake Success, Jamaica Water is a subsidiary of JWP Inc., a diversified coporation that has grown rapidly since the mid-1980's through the acquisition of the BusinessLand chain of retail computer stores and several engineering and high technology businesses.
For more than a decade, Jamaica Water has been battling to retain its operations in Queens, where the administrations of former Mayor Edward I. Koch, and now of David N. Dinkins, have tried to take it over, first through a negotiated purchase and later through condemnation. The condemnation division of State Surpreme Court in Queens is determining a fair market value if the city is to acquire the Queens operations through condemnation. The city's lawyers have set the value at $62 million; the company has told the court the value should be $900 million.
In the meantime, the company is receiving subsidies from the city, through tax abatements and low-priced water that allow it to keep the its bills to customers in Queens at the same level as those of other city residents, and far below the rates it charges in Nassau County.
With consumers here and in much of Nassau paying the high rates, the Nassau County Board of Supervisors last year appointed a Water Board to study a public takeover of Jamaica Water and other other private water utilities.
County officials said their decision would hinge partially on the ruling by the court in Queens on the value of Jamiaca Water's operations there, because similar criteria might be applied in condemnation hearings before a Nassau County court judge.
 
Sale of Bonds
 If either Queens or Nassau proceeds with condemnation, officials said they would raise money for the transaction through the sale of tax-exempt bonds and set up a new tax-exempt water system.
But the economic consequences could be harsh, because removing a major water utility from the tax roles would create new fiscal strains.
"I have been hearing about condemnation for years, but the fact is they just can't afford it," said Edward J. Tirello, a utilities industry analyst for Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company.
His skepticism was not shared by the members of Waterbill Watchdogs, who have met repeatedly since the group was formed in September to organize their campaign for lower priced water.
"This simply cannot continue," said Ralph Ratto, the owner of a Floral Park interior design store and president of the group. The group favors the creation of a small municipal utility to serve its own village if Jamaica Water is not taken over by the county.
"Water bills here are a very major expense," he added. "Our senior citizens are paying more for water than for heat."
At the Consumer Protection Board, Mr. Kessel said condemnation was not likely soon.
"Because of what would be lost in the tax base, I don't think we can expect it to happen soon," he said. But he added that public ownership of the water utilities was "the ultimate solution, even if we have to plan for it years ahead."

GRAPHIC: Map of Nassau showing location of Floral Park. (pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (83%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JAMAICA JAMAICA WATER SUPPLY CO (83%); AMERICAN LEGION (84%); AMERICAN LEGION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: JAMAICA AMERICAN LEGION (84%); AMERICAN LEGION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NASSAU COUNTY (NY); FLORAL PARK (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; RATES WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (94%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (94%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (88%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); FAMILY (71%); APPROVALS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J RICHARD M KESSEL (70%); CHARLIE DESMOND (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



366 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Executives Skeptical on Bush Health Plan

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
Some business executives say President Bush's health-care proposals could make their problems worse because they do not go far enough to slow the rapid increase in the nation's medical spending.
"It is a plus that the President has come forward and taken a position that we need overall reform," said Walter Maher, director of Federal relations on human resources issues for the Chrysler Corporation. "But we have to bring our health costs more in line with those of our major competitors, Japan and Germany. That requires some very tough cost-containment strategy, which I did not see in the proposal." 
 The executives warned that further cutbacks in Federal programs for the elderly and poor, which were included in the President's budget message, would probably lead to even higher charges to businesses by hospitals and doctors seeking to make up for lost income.
Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers in Washington, praised the President's proposals to assure health coverage for workers changing jobs and to encourage health maintenance organizations and networks of doctors and hospitals that provide lower fees and accept supervision of quality of care.
"However, we are concerned with some of the options offered to finance this $100 billion program," Mr. Jasinowski said. "One approach would cap Medicaid and Medicare payments. That would likely result in additional cost-shifting to employers."
Most business spokesmen praised the President for entering the debate on health care, after more than a year of Administration hesitation to address the issue. They predicted that some of his proposals had a good chance of being enacted because they are similar to those of the Democratic chairmen of the Congressional tax-writing committees, Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas and Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois.
But the President's proposal to provide tax credits and tax deductions to help more people buy health insurance also came in for criticism. The United States already spends $2 billion a day, about 13 percent of the gross national product, on health care, and some people said the credits and deductions might stimulate spending.
"It makes no sense to simply throw money at the problem," Mr. Maher said. "You have to address the cost side of the question as well."
Don Summers, president of Austin Welder and Generator Services in Austin, Tex., with nine employees, said his company was "priced out of the health-care market in May 1990" after monthly insurance premiums tripled in three years. He praised Mr. Bush's plan but added, "we need to go back to community rating," that is, uniform insurance rates for everyone in a community.
That approach, he said, spreads "the risk, the way insurance is supposed to work."
 
Medical Practices Attacked
 Mr. Summers said the Government should also "oversee the outrageous greed of medical practitioners."
"It should outlaw practices that allow hospitals to bill both individuals and insurance companies" for the same treatment, he said, referring to a process called unbundling.
Hospital executives applauded the President's proposals to expand coverage for people without insurance, but they also had questions about the financing.
"The plan appears to provide coverage for most of the uninsured," said Don Oder, senior vice president and chief operating officer of Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center in Chicago. "The big question in our minds is the financing. We don't know enough about that yet.
 
Planned Cuts Called Unwise
 He noted that the Administration's budget proposals include restrictions on spending for the Medicaid program for the poor and Medicare for the elderly and disabled, "which are already underfunded." Mr. Oder said that more than 60 percent of hospitals in a 1990 Government survey lost money on Medicare patients.
Jerome H. Grossman, chairman of the New England Medical Center, a teaching hospital in Boston, agreed that it would be "unwise strategy" to pay the costs by taking money from other Government health programs.
Making a similar point, Dr. Morris B. Mellion, an Omaha doctor who is president of the American Academy of Family Physicians, a professional group that has 73,000 members, said the Administration was "talking about taking from the poor and elderly and giving to other poor people."
Spokesmen for small businesses said they were already being overcharged by hospitals and doctors to make up for Government cutbacks in Medicare and Medicaid programs.
"Small business already receives a significant brunt of the cost shift," said Gary B. Kushner, president of Kushner & Company, a consulting firm based in Kalamazoo, Mich. "We're at the bottom of the waterfall."
Martha Thornton, a senior vice president in Chicago with the Ameritech Corporation, which has 77,000 employees in Bell telephone companies in five Midwestern states, said, "The most positive thing about the President's proposal is that it offers another alternative in the debate over what should be done."
She also opposed putting new restrictions on Medicare and Medicaid. But she said the President's plan would indeed help control the growth of health-care costs by making it easier for small groups to get insurance, limiting payments in medical malpractice lawsuits, and encouraging health maintenance organizations and hospital and physician networks.
"There's enough money in the system today to finance needed health care, if we control the system," she said.
 
Insurers 'Are Pleased'
 Health insurers generally welcomed Mr. Bush's plan, which could benefit their business on several fronts -- subsidizing new customers and encouraging them to use the insurers' medical networks and health maintenance organizations.
"We are pleased to see the President offering a set of ideas that builds on the private, employer-based health-care system," said Bernard S. Tresnowski, president of the national Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association.
Jon Glaudemans, a spokesman for the Aetna Life and Casualty Company, said the plan "guarantees choice to all Americans and avoids a Government takeover of the health-care system." He added: "We're glad to see the President entering the debate. His leadership is essential to meaningful reform, which we support."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, praised parts of the President's health care proposal, but expressed concern with some of the ideas offered to finance it. (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (72%); FEDERAL PROGRAMS (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); TEXAS, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MEDICARE (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); MEDICAID (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); JASINOWSKI, JERRY GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



367 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Companies Press U.S. on Vietnam

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 9

 BODY:
At a time when American competitiveness, or lack of it, in Asia is much debated, corporations and business organizations in the United States are pressing for an end to the trade and investment boycott of Vietnam, a country where American companies say they believe they could do very well.
The quiet lobbying -- led by the petroleum, construction, telecommunications and consulting industries -- is prompted by the perception that the Japanese have been positioning themselves in Vietnam for decades and will grab many of the contracts when Vietnam becomes integrated in world trade. 
 Japan and South Korea, apparently uncomfortable with an American-led embargo, have begun moving in recent weeks toward greater participation in the Vietnamese economy.
American products, introduced in South Vietnam in the 1960's and 1970's, are highly prized by Hanoi -- and still functioning. An official of Caterpillar Far East Commercial Ltd., the Asian subsidiary of Caterpillar Inc., based in Peoria, Ill., told a Congressional committee recently that on a visit to Vietnam last spring he saw working Caterpillar vehicles that had been delivered 20 years ago.
"The interest in Vietnam is substantial," said Virginia Foote, director of the three-year-old United States Vietnam Trade Council, a private group that helps American companies and individuals position themselves for the competition expected in the Vietnmese economy when the embargo is finally lifted. The council's chairman is William H. Sullivan, a former United States Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Vietnam, whom Hanoi approached for help in 1988.
Ms. Foote said at least 10 large corporations and about 300 smaller companies, plus dozens of individual entrepreneurs, had joined the council, which gives briefings every couple of months in Washington to keep Americans abreast of trade laws as well as developments in Vietnam. The council is asking the Treasury Department for a license to bring Vietnamese to the United States under fellowships, or to allow Americans to teach courses in Vietnamese schools or companies.
Nearly 17 years after the end of the Vietnam War, the United States not only maintains a nearly total embargo against country-to-country dealings with Vietnam but also opposes any assistance to Hanoi by international lending and development organizations, in particular the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank and the International Monetary Fund, where Vietnam is in arrears from past borrowing.
Washington does not, however, object to the World Bank's conducting surveys or giving advice in Vietnam in preparation for later development. On Dec. 17, the State Department relaxed travel restrictions, allowing group tours to Vietnam to be sold in the United States. Moreover, about $1 million in humanitarian assistance goes to Vietnam annually through private organizations, and an unknown amount of financial help is provided Vietnamese families by relatives in the West.
But all applications for commercial trading licenses are routinely rejected, Government officials say. Americans, unlike their competitors in Japan and Europe, are not permitted to open offices in Vietnam. In Asia, American Chambers of Commerce in Hong Kong, Bangkok and other cities have begun campaigns to lobby Congress and the Administration for a change in this restrictive policy.
 
Hanoi Seeking Oil Bids
 Hanoi, short of hard currency and suffering from the loss of Soviet aid, is urgently seeking bids to explore and develop its oilfields in the South China Sea and to begin constructing or reconstructing roads, power plants, airports, ports and industrial buildings. Vietnam needs aircraft and wants to sell textiles and agriculture products, including tropical fruit and processed seafood.
Jerry Smith, a spokesman for Phillips Petroleum in Bartlesville, Okla., acknowledged that Phillips was among the oil companies interested in exploring Vietnamese offshore fields "as soon as the embargo comes off."
David Dollar, the World Bank's Vietnam specialist, said the rebuilding of Vietnam, extremely impoverished by half a century of wars, is likely to cost roughly $500 million a year for five years. Mr. Dollar, speaking at the Asia Society last month, said it was far from clear where Vietnam would secure the money for these contracts.
 
Low Incomes, High Debt
 The country has nearly 70 million people and one of the lowest per-capita incomes in the world -- barely $200 a year -- and is $140 million in arrears to the International Monetary Fund. Hanoi is also thought to have large foreign debts in rubles to the former Soviet Union and in hard currencies to commercial lenders in Japan. Hanoi and Tokyo are now negotiating a debt-repayment plan.
At the Commerce Department, several officials said that Americans's interest in trading or investing in Vietnam is significant, despite the uncertainties. Among those asking for help and information are war veterans who would like to go back and help the country rebuild.
 
Change Not Expected Soon
 State Department officials who deal with Vietnam say they are aware of the concerns of American business, and they acknowledge that Vietnam, with a well-educated labor force eager for jobs, holds a lot of potential. But the general feeling in the Bush Administration, in Congress and in private research organizations is that lifting the embargo and granting diplomatic recognition to Vietnam are not likely to occur before this year's Presidential election.
Under the terms of a "road map" the American Government presented to the Vietnamese last spring, Hanoi must help smooth the transition to democracy in neighboring Cambodia and demonstrate that it is doing all it can to resolve at least 82 possibly solvable cases involving the 2,267 Americans who are missing in Indochina or whose remains have not been found.
In the State Department, even officials most predisposed to hastening the recognition of Vietnam say that Hanoi is not extending as much cooperation as it could, perhaps because Communist hard-liners continue to deal from a position of mistrust and suspicion in issues involving Americans.

GRAPHIC: Photo: American products introduced in South Vietnam in the 1960's and 1970's are highly prized by the Vietnamese. This John Deere tractor in the Mekong Delta doubled as the engine for a rice thresher. (Barbara Crossette/The New York Times, 1988)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (83%); CATR (PAR) (83%); CAT (SWX) (83%); CAT (NYSE) (83%); ATB (ASX) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (99%); VIETNAM (93%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); PEORIA, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (83%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (99%); VIETNAM (93%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); PEORIA, IL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BOYCOTTS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (62%); FOREIGN LENDING (60%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



368 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Set To Discuss Output Cut

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Feb. 9

 BODY:
The president of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said today that he would press for a significant cut in oil production to prop up sagging prices, which have dropped by 20 percent since November.
Jibril Aminu, who is also the oil minister of Nigeria, said he would ask OPEC's 12 members to reduce production by about 6 percent when they meet on Wednesday in Geneva. 
 At the moment, the average price of OPEC crude oil is about $16 a barrel, and OPEC output has increased to an 11-year high of 24.2 million barrels a day.
 
Benefits for Consumers
 Americans and other consumers have been enjoying the benefits of OPEC's high production. Retail gasoline prices are at their lowest in months, and heating oil prices are also quite low.
"I think we need to cut by 1.5 million barrels per day in order to firm up prices, arrest the slide and begin moving toward the $21-a-barrel" price that OPEC has set as a goal, Mr. Aminu said in a statement issued in Lagos, Nigeria, before he left for Geneva.
Venezuela's oil minister, Celestino Armas, said last week that there was "a growing inclination among OPEC producers to agree to reduce output in order to raise prices."
 
Who Gets What
 But agreeing on how to regulate production is never an easy matter for OPEC, whose members usually have a difficult time deciding on who will get what share of the production agreed to. Numerous meetings in recent years have ended in stalemates, or with production ceilings agreed to that were subsequently ignored.
And this week's meeting is likely to be little different.
Iran, Libya and Algeria are seeking the largest cuts in production, as much as 10 percent. But any agreement to limit output requires the consent of Saudi Arabia, OPEC's largest and most influential member.
The Saudis currently pump about 8.5 million barrels of oil a day, about 35 percent of OPEC's total. And Saudi Arabia has been adamant about retaining such a share, whatever cuts are made.
The pressure to cut output and increase oil revenues also reflects economic hardships and social tensions in Algeria and Venezuela, situations that have been heightened by declining oil revenue since November.
The Saudis have tried to strike a conciliatory note in recent weeks, saying they are willing to reduce output in conjunction with others. In late January, Saudia Arabia reduced production by 100,000 barrels a day.
But the Saudis have been deliberately vague about how far they will go in order to leave more leeway for the negotiations in Geneva.
The Saudis already dispute the generally bearish views about soft demand for OPEC oil in the second quarter, suggesting they may opt for the smallest proposed cut, of 5 percent. While OPEC economists and the International Energy Agency in Paris estimate the world will only need 22.7 million barrels a day of OPEC's crude starting in March, the Saudis say demand will be higher than that.
For the last 18 months, OPEC has been spared the difficulties of reducing output because of the disappearance of Kuwait and Iraq as key oil producers. The other OPEC members made up for the shortage by pumping as much oil as they could produce.
By far the greatest beneficiary of this policy of high production has been Saudi Arabia. Its share of OPEC's overall output went from 24 percent before the Persian Gulf crisis began in the summer of 1990 to 35 percent now. Venezuela and the United Arab Emirates also profited handsomely.
The three countries have opposed any reversal of the policy of unfettered production until a few weeks ago, when prices started to slide .
"The whole psychology has changed," said Gary Ross, president of the New York-based Petroleum Industry Research Associates.
With sentiment rising for a cut in production, Platt's Oilgram, a newsletter, commented, "The most touted scenarios involve an across-the-board cut that would exclude Iraq and Kuwait."
 
Uncertainty in Iraq
 Iraq, which has been banned by the United Nations from exporting oil since it invaded Kuwait in August 1990, has rejected a United Nations proposal to resume limited exports of about one million barrels a day, largely because of a dispute on how much of the revenues from such exports Iraq would be allowed to collect.
Kuwait, which had a pre-invasion output capacity of two million barrels of oil a day, is still recovering from the ravages of war. Although the fires set by retreating Iraqis in Kuwaiti oilfields have largely been extinguished, much rebuilding is required.
The Kuwaitis are now producing around 600,000 barrels a day and have made it clear that they cannot be expected to slow down the recovery of their oil industry. Kuwaiti exports of oil are still at a modest level of 500,000 barrels a day.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Gasoline Prices Steady

 
By The Associated Press
The retail price of gasoline in the United States dropped only slightly in the last two weeks, according to the weekly survey of 13,000 stations by Trilby Lundberg. She predicted that a three-month price slide was over. Miss Lundberg's survey found the average price of all grades of gasoline, including taxes, was 116.99 cents a gallon, a drop of two-thirds of a penny from Jan. 24. "This may be the end of the price slide," Miss Lundberg said. "Wholesale prices to retailers have been rising, and this drop of 0.64 may be the last one for a while."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (95%); NIGERIA (93%); ALGERIA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); SWITZERLAND (88%); FRANCE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (76%); 

CITY: LAGOS, NIGERIA (58%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (95%); NIGERIA (93%); ALGERIA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); SWITZERLAND (88%); FRANCE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (76%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; PRICES PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M; AMINU, JIBRIL

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



369 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Pressures Are Building For Rate Cut

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Less than two months ago, the Federal Reserve Board shocked and delighted financial markets with an unusually aggressive cut in short-term interest rates.
But thus far, many credit market analysts say, the visible benefits to the economy from that bold move on Dec. 20 have been exceedingly modest, and the pressure is building for the central bank to do more. 
 "Despite its dramatic easing efforts in the final months of 1991, the Federal Reserve is not yet off the hook," Robert DiClemente, an economist at Salomon Brothers, wrote in the firm's weekly "Comments on Credit." Chances of another cut in the overnight Federal funds rate, to 3.75 percent or perhaps lower, have increased greatly, Mr. DiClemente said, adding that the move could come within days.
 
Some Help to Housing Sales
 Lower interest rates appear to have strengthened the housing market somewhat and afforded homeowners the opportunity to make up some of the income lost on short-term money market investments by refinancing their mortgages. Another leading indicator, growth in the nation's money supply, has accelerated over the last few weeks.
And there have been faint signs that consumers spent more money last month than they did in January 1991, when fighting broke out in the Persian Gulf.
Despite those signs, most analysts said chances of a quick recovery, which some economists had been predicting, were all but eliminated by the January report on employment.
The employment data prompted James F. O'Sullivan, an economist at the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, to predict that despite the recent small increases in output in the third and fourth quarters, the National Bureau of Economic Research, the organization that dates business cycles, is likely to find that the recession that began in mid-1990 continued into the first quarter of 1992, making it the longest downturn since the Great Depression.
 
Drop in Factory Output Expected
 Aside from the unexpectedly large decline of 91,000 in non-farm payroll employment, analysts said the drop in the manufacturing workweek virtually guaranteed that factory output fell further last month. Moreover, the report showed that those who had jobs were paid less. Though positive for the inflation outlook, the decline in hourly earnings and employment levels will probably not do much to bolster consumer attitudes.
"There is no question the recession continued in January," said Joseph Carson, chief economist at Dean Witter Financial Services. "The first quarter is going to be horrible, probably worse than most people think. I think another easing of monetary policy is very likely in the short run."
At issue, some analysts said, is whether the Fed, which saw the economy losing momentum as 1991 came to a close, calibrated the size of its Dec. 20 cuts in interest rates on the assumption that the first quarter would be weak. If so, short-term rates may stay at current levels for a bit longer.
 
Factor of Rise in Yields
 The rise in bond yields over the last three weeks also argued against a quick change in policy, some analysts said.
"The rise of nearly 50 basis points in long rates means that credit is more costly to borrowers, no matter what they do with the Federal funds rate," said Jerry L. Jordan, a senior vice president at First Interstate Bancorp in Los Angeles. "That increase is a real constraint on the Fed. So, too, are the few bits and pieces of positive news that lead you to say something is going on. Those are like telling the Fed, 'Hey, let's give this a little more time.' "
The employment report, coupled with increased anticipation of further easing by the Fed, has probably brightened the outlook for the Treasury's quarterly refunding auctions this week.
"Looking at how weak the economy is and how low inflation is, bond yields at 7.75 percent are very, very attractive," said Robert A. Brusca, chief economist at Nikko Securities.
 
Outlook for Japanese Buying
 But after a visit to Japan last week, Mr. Brusca added that the attraction was not likely to prove terribly strong to those across the Pacific.
"The Japanese will buy some securities at the auctions," he said. "They always do. But when I was talking to investors there last week there were concerns about the dollar. We are looking at another refunding that will be domestically financed."
Late Friday, the three-year notes to be sold on Tuesday at the start of the refunding were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 5.41 percent. The 10-year notes to be auctioned Wednesday were offered at a price to yield 7.19 percent. And the 30-year bonds to be sold Thursday were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 7.77 percent.
 
Awaiting This Week's Figures
 The Fed has chosen to ease monetary policy before refunding auctions in the past, but analysts said that this time it was more likely that policy makers would delay a decision at least until the January retail sales and producer price figures are announced on Wednesday and Thursday.
Most economists expect the wholesale price numbers to be extremely favorable for credit market participants, but they say the sales figures could be strong and temporarily upset the market.
A vigorous rise in retail sales should not be interpreted as the start of a consumer-led rebound, economists said, in part because excluding automobile sales, retail sales have fallen for the last five months. Moreover, the year-over-year comparisons are against sales that were unnaturally depressed by the war last year, among other things.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (55%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); RECESSION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INFLATION (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TRENDS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (63%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (52%); WAR & CONFLICT (52%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ROBERT A BRUSCA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



370 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Profits vs. Programs for British TV

BYLINE: By SUZANNE CASSIDY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Feb. 9

 BODY:
The forced resignation of the executive chairman of Granada Television Ltd., whose hits included "Brideshead Revisited" and "The Jewel in the Crown," has stirred fears here that quality programming will be sacrificed in the quest for short-term profits in Britain's increasingly competitive television industry.
Granada is one of Britain's most respected commercial television companies, and its critically acclaimed programs have proved quite popular in the United States as well as in Britain. 
 But recent changes in the economics of British television may push broadcasting companies to cut programming costs, a move that could depress sales of British programs overseas, especially in the United States, the largest market.
 
Franchise Auction
 The debate over profits versus programming is neither new nor confined to Granada; indeed, it lay at the heart of the controversy surrounding the British Government's auction of the 16 commercial television franchises that comprise ITV, as the Independent Television network is known.
One leading broadcaster, Thames Television, lost its franchise in the October auction. And some other commercial television companies were forced to make such high bids that they are expected to seek cuts in ITV's overall budget.
At Granada, which kept its franchise for a relatively low bid, its chief executive, David Plowright, still faced demands for increased profits that he thought would compromise the quality of his company's programming. Mr. Plowright, who was the head of programming when "Brideshead Revisited" and "The Jewel in the Crown" were produced, balked at these demands, so last week he was forced to resign.
Mr. Plowright's ouster has already provoked protests. On Friday, some 70 writers, including Alan Bennett, John Cleese, Harold Pinter and Fay Weldon, said in a letter to the British daily The Guardian that Mr. Plowright's ouster posed "a serious threat" to Granada's "continued production of programs of quality and distinction."
Another letter, signed by nearly 50 directors and producers, including Derek Granger, the producer of "Brideshead Revisited," said the dismissal of Mr. Plowright marked "a sad, black day not just for Granada but for British television as a whole."
Mr. Granger said in an interview that there was "an increasing chance" that American viewers would now see fewer good British programs.
 
'Fundamental Disagreement'
 In a statement earlier in the week, Gerry Robinson, chief executive of Granada's parent, Granada Group P.L.C., said only that he and Mr. Plowright had been "unable to reach a working agreement for the future."
Mr. Plowright, in the same statement, said more bluntly that there was a "fundamental disagreement" between him and Granada Group about "how to manage the change into the new broadcasting environment of the next decade."
Granada Television executives said Mr. Robinson was seeking profit increases that Mr. Plowright considered unreasonable. They said he feared that Granada's ability to provide quality programming would be endangered if budgets had to be slashed too quickly and too sharply.
Jonathan Clare, a spokesman for Granada Group, said that while Mr. Plowright was responsible only for the television company, Mr. Robinson had to "balance the conflicting interests" of the customers, employees and shareholders of the entire Granada Group. The parent company's profits dropped 53 percent last year from 1990.
 
International Sales
 But too much of a focus on short-term profits could ultimately hurt the British television industry. The commercial television companies currently have international sales of about $150 million a year, while the British Broadcasting Corporation sells at least another $70 million in programs abroad.
David Murrell, the head of the British media practice at KPMG Peat Marwick McLintock, the accounting and consulting firm, noted that overseas broadcasters preferred ambitious and well-made programs with stories that can appeal to non-British audiences. But such programs are often expensive to make.
In addition, low-budget British dramatic programs would face extremely tough competition for American audiences, because Hollywood routinely spends $500,000 or more to produce each 30-minute episode of many popular prime-time shows. The difference in production quality could be all too obvious.
Among the British companies that face an uncertain future is Thames Television. Thames's productions include the popular "Rumpole of the Bailey," which is also broadcast in the United States on public television.
A Thames spokesman, Roy Addison, said that since the company had lost its broadcasting license, it was "examining all the possibilities for independent productions and other broadcasting opportunities."
Thames plans to maintain its international sales arm, but Mr. Addison said Americans may not see more of its high-budget programs like "Rumpole" unless they are commissioned by the British Broadcasting Corporation or other television companies.
British television companies, however, have now become very reluctant to commission such programs for next year because of the industry's uncertainty, said Mr. Murrell of KPMG Peat Marwick McLintock.
 
'Tremendous Tensions'
 Even among the ITV franchise winners, there are "tremendous tensions," said Mr. Murrell, because a new central commissioning and scheduling system is not yet in place.
In addition, Mr. Murrell said, all of the 16 companies must agree on a total ITV budget. Since several franchises were so costly, he said, some companies may not have much money left for programming.
As such, "all of them are likely to go for the lowest common denominator," he said. "If you're going on vacation with friends, one of whom has very little money, you don't go to the most exciting place."
Given the uncertainty within the ITV network, "this ought to be a bonanza time for the BBC," Mr. Murrell said.
 
Trouble at the BBC
 But, he added, "the problem is, the BBC has its own difficulties."
Government-appointed consultants have demanded that the BBC come up with 200 million, or about $365 million, in cost savings or new revenues. It also is looking nervously toward the 1996 expiration of its royal charter, which gives the BBC its status as Britain's publicly financed broadcast service.
Such concerns about the BBC, along with commercial television, appeared to be on the mind of Mr. Granger, the former Granada producer. In an interview last week, he warned that the climate for quality broadcasting in Britain was becoming "ferociously cold."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anthony Andrews, left, and Jeremy Irons in the 1982 production of "Brideshead Revisited," one of the hit programs of Granada Television. (Granada Television)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: GRANADA TELEVISION INTERNATIONAL GRANADA TELEVISION LTD (92%); GRANADA GROUP PLC (80%); INDEPENDENT TELEVISION NETWORK INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRANADA TELEVISION INTERNATIONAL

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (64%); 

PERSON: CASSIDY, SUZANNE; PLOWRIGHT, DAVID DAVID PLOWRIGHT (93%); GERRY ROBINSON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



371 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
3 Car-Part Makers Worth Watching

BYLINE: By Adam Bryant

 BODY:
THE companies that supply parts to auto makers would appear to have brighter prospects, given the eventual cyclical rebound that is expected in auto sales and a recent pledge from Japanese auto makers to buy more car parts from the United States.
But analysts warn investors to proceed with caution, noting that the auto parts industry is changing in ways that will benefit some suppliers and hurt others. Both foreign and domestic auto makers, for example, rely increasingly on their suppliers for design and engineering expertise, skills that not all component makers possess. Auto makers are also trying to build longer-term relationships with fewer suppliers and insisting that they meet stringent quality guidelines. 
 "There are suppliers that are not going to cut the mustard," said Philip K. Fricke, a Prudential Securities automotive analyst.
Some economists also warn that the agreement by Japanese auto makers to double their purchase of American parts to $19 billion by 1994 may backfire on American companies, because Japanese auto makers may rush to establish their own parts plants in the United States.
With so many caveats, the list of widely recommended stocks is not long. Those that are praised have in-house design and engineering know-how, a track record of delivering quality products, and parts that can be marketed worldwide. Proprietary techniques or technologies are a bonus.
One analyst also believes that smaller suppliers will garner more investment interest in coming years than will larger, more mature companies with higher labor and pension costs. "There seems to be more confidence in smaller parts companies to grow through thick and thin than traditional companies," said Jack V. Kirnan, a Kidder, Peabody automotive analyst.
One such company is the Gentex Corporation of Zeeland, Mich., whose main product is an automobile rear-view mirror that dims automatically to eliminate glare from the headlights of trailing cars. Its Night Vision Safety mirror, which uses a patented electrochemical technology, was first installed on a Lincoln Continental in 1988. The mirrors are now available on 39 car and truck models, including some made by General Motors, Ford, Chrysler, Mercedes, BMW, Nissan and Fiat. Contracts for this year should increase shipments to 790,000 units.
Given the current appetite of consumers for safety-related features, the product is likely to be offered on a growing range of less luxurious models in coming years. Gentex is also developing applications of the technology for architectural glass. Mr. Fricke predicted that Gentex would grow at a compounded annual rate of 33 percent over the next five years. The stock, which closed Friday at $18.875, up 12.5 cents, in over-the-counter trading, is trading near its high for the year. Mr. Fricke said the stock could appreciate to the $30 range within 18 months.
Other recommended stocks include Magna International of Toronto, which makes a wide range of auto parts, including transmission parts, seats, mirror assemblies and trunk-latch releases. The components manufacturer was noted for its missteps in the mid- and late-1980's, when it expanded rapidly and increased production capacity just in time for the automobile industry to hit a downturn. But after a hiatus from the company, its chairman, Frank Stronach, returned to marshal a turnaround. In fiscal 1990, Magna recorded an operating loss of $50 million; the following year it reported an operating profit of $50 million.
The stock's price has reflected its turnaround; trading at $2 a year ago, it closed Friday at $21.25 in over-the-counter trading. Mr. Fricke said the stock was previously surging on the story of its turnaround but is now doing well on the basis of its earnings potential. Analysts also believe that Magna will be among the beneficiaries of increased business from the Japanese transplant manufacturers. "The stock is very cheap on future earnings," Mr. Fricke said.
Analysts are also recommending the stock of the Dana Corporation of Toledo, Ohio., whose engineering expertise is considered first rate. The company stands to receive a significant portion of the business from Toyota if and when the auto maker follows through with its widely publicized plan to build a large pickup truck in this country.
"There's a good chance that Dana is going to get orders for axles, driveshafts and frames," said Mr. Kirnan of Kidder, Peabody, who rates Dana as an attractive long-term investment.
The company currently supplies components for Japanese transplants that make trucks, including Isuzu and Nissan. Others rate the stock as a hold, because the stock's price already reflects future earning power in a healthier sales climate.
Dana's stock closed Friday at $31.125, down 12.5 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GNTX (NASDAQ) (82%); MGA (NYSE) (60%); MG (TSX) (60%); GM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: GENTEX CORP (82%); MAGNA INTERNATIONAL INC (60%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES AUTOMAKERS (94%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PATENTS (75%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM PHILIP K FRICKE (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



372 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: ALBERTVILLE;
Sniffles and Shaky Skates Make for a Rough Debut

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBERTVILLE, France, Feb. 9

 BODY:
They had become virtual American folk heroes, the waitress and the truck driver: two middle-class kids raising money through public appearances and the sale of booster pins so they could live out their dreams as Olympic athletes. With a stretch, you could almost imagine them climbing that victory podium and bowing their heads to be draped with the gold medals.
In a dream, anyway. 
 For all their endearing qualities, this was not the night Calla Urbanski and Rocky Marval had envisioned for their Olympic debut. As the figure-skating competition of the 1992 Winter Games opened here tonight with the original program for pairs, they skated to music from the musical "Can-Can," selected just to please the French crowd, but suffered a major error early and ranked seventh after the round.
As the United States champions, they not only trailed the favorites, two pairs from the United Team of former Soviet athletes -- Natalya Mishkutienok and Artur Dmitriev, the current world champions, and Yelena Bechke and Denis Petrov -- they were behind another American couple, Natasha Kuchiki and Todd Sand, who managed sixth.
Not to worry. Urbanski, the 31-year-old waitress and former bartender from Wilmington, Del., and Marval, the 27-year-old owner of a trucking company in New Egypt, N.J., and occasional driver, are having the times of their lives just experiencing the Olympics.
 
'This Is It'
 "When we skated out, I turned to Calla and said: 'This is it. This is the Olympics,' " Marval said, still buzzing.
Urbanski, the oldest skater in the Games, said: "That made me feel good. We both had a rough day and a rough night, so we wanted to go out there and enjoy it and not let the moment pass us by."
Their difficulties arose from untimely colds. More than a few of the United States skaters were suffering at the team's quarters in Brides-les-Bains, a village 45 minutes away from here by bus. Urbanski and Marval had requested a certain antihistamine from the American medical personnel on Saturday night, only to learn the supply was depleted. By today, the medication had arrived, but a little too late to help.
Despite their enthusiasm, they were somewhat flat in their presentation, Marval more than Urbanski, and it was he that brought them most of the trouble. In executing side-by-side double-axel jumps, one of the eight required elements in the original program, he took off awkwardly, considered doing only a single axel, went ahead with the double anyway, then slid into the restraining boards upon landing.
"She did it at the nationals, so I guess it was my turn here," Marval said, recalling Urbanski's fall last month at the national championships in Orlando, Fla. They stood third after the original but overtook Kuchiki and Sand as well as Jenni Meno and Scott Wendland to win their first national title. Meno and Wendland, runners-up in Orlando, skated well tonight but failed to convince the judges, who ranked them 12th.
 
Room For Improvement
 "It's hard to get 5.6's and 5.7's, then drop to 4.9's and 5.0's," said Urbanski, reflecting the difference between here and Orlando. "But I know we can do better."
Marval said: "I'm sure we can pull up one or two spots. Our goal was top five, and I think that's realistic."
By holding the leading positions, the United Team pairs provided that much more evidence that not all phases of former Soviet society are eroding under the weight of economic deprivations. Soviet pairs won the previous seven Olympic titles, and it would be virtually impossible to imagine one of the United Team leaders not making it eight titles Tuesday night after the free-skate phase of competition, which counts for two-thirds of the overall score.
Mishkutienok and Dmitriev was were especially appealing, prancing about to music from "Don Quixote" and erring only when they lost synchronization of side-by-side spins. Their double axels were splendid, which Mishkutienok appreciated more than anyone but maybe their coach, Tamara Moskvina.
"This was the first I have done this season," she said. She had botched them at the Lalique Trophy competition here last November and at the European championships last month in Lausanne, Switzerland, events they won, anyway, which is the best indication their streak is likely to continue.
Even if it appears the waitress and the truck driver are having more fun.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Calla Urbanski of the United States doing a jump over Rocky Marval during their original program in the pairs competition. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1992); WINTER GAMES (OLYMPICS); ICE SKATING; FIGURE SKATING WINTER SPORTS (92%); OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); ICE SKATING (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); TRUCKING (73%); COMMON COLD (67%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL CALLA URBANSKI (94%); ROCKY MARVAL (92%); NATALYA MISHKUTIENOK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



373 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: The New Heroin Bargain

 BODY:
As the U.S. begins to lose its appetite for cocaine, South American drug dealers are trying to develop a new market for heroin. Disturbing as it is, the prospect of more heroin abuse has one positive implication. It adds weight to the already powerful arguments for spending more on drug treatment to rescue addicts.
During the 1980's, heroin seemed to lose its appeal as the drug world discovered crack. The population of heroin addicts appeared to have stabilized at about 750,000 nationwide, compared with 4.5 million using cocaine. The heroin users were an aging group and public health officials were less concerned about their addiction than that they had begun to spread AIDS by sharing needles. 
 But now there's evidence that as the American crack epidemic has peaked, some South American producers who spent the 80's growing cocaine have begun planting heroin poppies in hopes of a revived market for the drug in the U.S.
The prospect dismays many law enforcement and drug policy officials. But some see a silver lining. It's by no means certain that heroin could be marketed as effectively as crack to new addicts. Indeed, the increased use appears to involve addicts who tire of crack, a stimulant, and switch to heroin, an opiate.
Furthermore, American drug treatment programs are on much firmer ground dealing with heroin than with crack. Their experience with heroin dates back to the 1960's, and they have developed a whole menu of treatment modes to meet the varying needs of individual addicts. In addition, the legitimate drug industry now markets two products -- methadone and naltrexone -- that effectively block heroin craving and permit addicts to lead normal lives.
Whatever hopes history may justify, public spending for drug treatment of all sorts remains miserably inadequate. Washington currently provides about $550 million in direct and block grants for drug treatment. States and localities provide another half-billion.
That money, along with private funds, now supports about 600,000 treatment slots capable of serving 1.7 million addicts each year. Students of drug policy say that accommodating all the addicts willing to accept treatment would require at least 300,000 more slots. With no private help, that would cost governments an additional $1.6 billion.
So serious a commitment could not be made without heavy Federal participation. The urban states with the biggest drug problems are so strapped that they are lucky simply to hold the line on treatment spending. The President's drug policy office has become acutely mindful of the need, but Congress in recent years has denied any real increases in treatment funding.
Rising heroin use means more treatment dollars might be spent more effectively than ever, with powerful implications for crime control, prevention of birth defects, AIDS and other diseases -- and attendant improvement in the quality of life for city residents in general. When legislators ignore such a bargain, voters have every reason to ask why.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN DRUG CENTER INC (91%); AMERICAN DRUG CORP (91%); AMERICAN DRUG SCREENS INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; EDITORIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FEDERAL AID (US); HEROIN HEROIN (95%); COCAINE (92%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); BUDGETS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EPIDEMICS (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); CITY LIFE (64%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



374 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Worriers Vs. Wallowers

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB

 BODY:
Environmentalists are saying that the Bush Administration will do nothing about gases dangerously warming the planet. And Administration officials are saying that it is the environmentalists who are full of impractical hot air.
While the warming worriers are demanding urgent action, the officials are wrestling with -- and alas, wallowing in -- the practical problems of doing something. 
 Too bad for us all that President Bush is not knocking their talented heads together. Yoked to common purpose, they could make extraordinary contributions to the critical working session of the U.N. "Earth Summit" in New York next week.
With ominous news of the ozone layer depleting faster than expected, Mr. Bush managed to reverse himself last week and accept Senate plans to phase out the offending gases. But on greenhouse gases, he stands by as the warring parties continue to spend more time proselytizing baffled journalists than talking to each other about viable solutions.
The first point warming worriers make is that science sits on their side. Experts generally do agree that greenhouse gases, mainly carbon dioxide from burning fossil fuels, are trapping heat and warming the earth's temperature. How warm and how fast are arguable matters, but scientists are alarmed now.
The worriers, led by the governments of Western Europe and Japan, have a two-point plan. They call for setting targets and timetables (T.& T.) for reducing CO2 , principally by conserving energy. And they propose giving money to poorer countries to make environmental measures affordable along with economic development.
The U.S., they say, is isolated among industrialized nations in resisting these moves. They see the New York meeting as the last chance to set the world on track toward solutions in time for the U.N. summit meeting this June in Brazil. They are dismayed that Mr. Bush still has not promised to attend in June.
With few exceptions, Administration officials question the scientific consensus. They also insist that European leaders know the practical difficulties of reducing CO2 and are playing games to court their own environmentalists (using the U.S. as an excuse for their own inaction) and gain economic advantages (given their lead in energy efficiency).
The officials argue that realistic strategies for controlling warming gases have to be tailored to individual countries and must be comprehensive and flexible. But they would not venture to say whether this approach would limit CO2 increases. They say they are working on new meaty proposals. But these will not include legally mandated targets and timetables for CO2 reductions. Too artificial and difficult to define on a national basis, they believe -- and not without good reasons.
Yet, some officials say they are entertaining the idea of targets and timetables as general goals. To this end, officials told of an ingenious bureaucratic game tied to the fact that CO2 growth is pegged to general economic growth: given Administration projections of average annual growth for the rest of the decade of about 2.9 percent, there is little hope of reducing CO2 levels. So the pro-T.& T. crowd proposes lowering the projections to what most non-governmental economists realistically predict, about 1.9 percent. This would bring the U.S. within shouting distance of European T.& T. levels. But it would also be an admission of slower economic growth and thus a failure of White House economic policies. So, stalemate.
In any event, this scheme would only change abstract numbers without actually holding down CO2 output. Which is why officials say they are looking at other ideas, like longer- lasting light bulbs -- a good idea, but it would not put a big dent in CO2 growth.
Even if industrialized countries found ways to limit CO2 output, these efforts would be offset by increases in developing countries. Officials are well aware of this and know poor countries will need aid to square the circle. But they say the present budget contained no money for a World Bank environmental/development fund. They say they are still looking.
George Bush was not nearly so cautious when he spoke of global warming in the 1988 Presidential campaign. "Those who think we're powerless to do anything about the greenhouse effect are forgetting the White House effect," he said. Those welcome words are not forgotten by many worriers and wallowers who wait for him to bring them together -- for planet's sake.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); BRAZIL (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (51%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); BRAZIL (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; CARBON DIOXIDE; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; WEATHER ENVIRONMENTALISM (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); JOURNALISM (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); OZONE DEPLETION (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); 

PERSON: GELB, LESLIE H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



375 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Send the Candidates a Message

BYLINE: By James Reston; James Reston is former chief Washington correspondent and executive editor of The New York Times.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In the preliminaries to the Presidential election, all the candidates have been asking the voters to send a message to Washington, but nobody has been sending a message to them. Herewith a few suggestions.
To the Democrats: why do you go into the playoffs with your second team? You have tried that and lost five of the last six Presidential elections. It's true that the country is in a recession, but it's no depression, and George Bush, whatever else he is, is no Herbert Hoover. At least he looks and sounds like a President, and, as Ronald Reagan proved, the appearance of things catches more votes than the substance. 
 Forget about 1932. You have no Franklin D. Roosevelt. And forget about 1948. You don't even have a Harry S. Truman in the race. The President has told you he will do anything to be re-elected, and he probably will, even if he has to keep or forget his promises.
Meanwhile, keep your second team off television. Why advertise your weakness? They don't even make it clear to people that Democrats got us out of the Depression and gave old folks Social Security and the unemployed some insurance. They don't concentrate on the gross national stupidity of the 1980's but fuss with one another about the mysteries of economics -- a sure way to turn off voters.
To the Republicans: is it wise to keep talking about cutting the capital gains tax? Even if the revenues trickled down to help the poor, nobody understands such cuts but the rich. It all sounds like a scheme to comfort the comfortable and afflict the afflicted. Meanwhile, say a few nice things about Gov. Mario Cuomo and other Democratic dropouts; that may keep them satisfied and on the sidelines. And don't be beastly to the Democratic candidates; these guys are your allies, not your enemies.
Also, in the name of Republican decency, forget about Willie Horton. Chuck the sly racial appeals and tricky code words that divide people. One other thing: can't you do something about Dan Quayle? It's bad politics and bad manners for the President to insist on keeping him on the ticket. This is a decision to be made by the party in convention, not by a President who insults voters by claiming that Mr. Quayle is the most qualified substitute President.
To George Bush: please, Mr. President, stop starting your sentences with "Hey!" and waving to people who aren't there. Why have an Education President who cusses like a preacher? Why the tough guy mucker pose? The people don't like it, and you're not good at it. We liked the old Bush, who used to speak as his father spoke against Joe McCarthy, who denounced "voodoo" economics and hated debt, who talked about getting the people together and stayed home once in a while.
Why demand a new order in the world and give us the same old political disorder and muddle at home?. It's no answer to say you're doing the best you can. That's what worries us.
To the voters and nonvoters: don't give up. If you don't like the candidates, you can write in somebody else's name. Or the parties, if they did what they're supposed to do, could insist on nominating their best people at conventions.
None of the above is likely to decide the election. But it might make the candidates come a little closer to the truth. Political lying used to be no worse than a bad personal habit, but now it's a science and even an industry. This calls for the revival of mocking laughter or even some justified heckling, and maybe a few more bumper stickers: No More Lies. Why Not the Best? Or even, Whither Art Thou, Mario? Otherwise, everybody "out there" and even "in here," in the Beltway, is likely to feel even worse next November than they do now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (64%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); RESTON, JAMES GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



376 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: Buying American Won't Be Enough

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In the rush to buy American (front page, Jan. 27), let us not forget that most United States businesses that can benefit from such a move in the short term will have to function efficiently over the long haul in not just a national, but a global economy.
That is, the coming decade's real growth markets -- for automobiles, tractors, household goods and appliances, and a host of other goods and services -- will be in second- and third-world countries, especially in Eastern Europe, the Pacific rim and to a lesser extent the Americas. 
 American companies must compete for their share in these wider markets if we hope to remain a "first-world" economy. Japanese companies will, of course, be among our strongest competitors.
Buying American now may create an illusion of success for some United States businesses; but its main impact will be to forestall the changes -- particularly in management and in public policy -- that must be made to assure a wider competitiveness.
Being good is not good enough. American industry has to be world class.
 
LAURENCE B. CHASE
Summit, N.J., Jan. 27, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC RIM FOODSINC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



377 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: To Curb Congressional Mailing Abuse

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I believe my position was misconstrued in "Frankly, It's an Abuse" (Topics of The Times, Jan. 19), on abuse of franking, the Congressional free mailing privilege.
A little more than a year ago, I was teaching high school civics students about our Government and the careful balance of accountability that must be maintained among the judicial, legislative and executive branches of the Federal system. 
 Today, as a member of the House of Representatives, I encounter a situation that requires an equally important balance -- that of building and maintaining accountability to our constituents by communicating effectively while limiting expense. Congress has given itself the privilege of sending mailing after mailing without any public record. Last year was the first when members had to keep track of how much they sent. Estimates show that Congressional mail has decreased significantly.
As a supporter of reform in all areas of politics, I believe this measure of accountability is essential.
Before I was elected to Congress, I spoke out against the widespread abuse of the franking privilege. I have worked to limit use of the frank, sending out only one mass mailing over the entire year. It contained an opinion survey and information on the environment, education, the economy and energy.
A study of franked mail for the first six months of 1991 by the National Taxpayers' Union showed that I used less of my allocated mail budget than 80 percent of my colleagues. While the final reports for the year have not been issued yet by the Postal Service, I believe you would find I used only about 30 percent of what was allowed.
I appreciate your criticism of the frank because there are many blatant abuses, but I have violated no rule.
 
WAYNE T. GILCHREST
Member of Congress, 1st Dist., Md.
Washington, Jan. 21, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) NATIONAL TAXPAYERS UNION (54%); NATIONAL TAXPAYERS UNION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) NATIONAL TAXPAYERS UNION (54%); NATIONAL TAXPAYERS UNION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FRANKING PRIVILEGE; POSTAL SERVICE LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POSTAL SERVICE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); 

PERSON: GILCHREST, WAYNE T (REPR) WAYNE T GILCHREST (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



378 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Republicans;
Buchanan Says Party Needs His 'Little Rebellion'

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Feb. 9

 BODY:
Countering assertions that his candidacy is splitting Republicans and providing ammunition for Democrats, Patrick J. Buchanan has stepped up his attack on President Bush, accusing him of abandoning conservative principles.
In a blistering speech Saturday night at a dinner for conservatives, Mr. Buchanan said conservatives in Washington, as epitomized by the President, had lost touch with their ideals and their constituency. 
 "You know," Mr. Buchanan said, "a great American, Thomas Jefferson, once said, 'I hold it that a little rebellion now and again is a good thing, as necessary in the political world as storms in the physical.'
"Well, my friends, a little rebellion is what the Buchanan brigades are all about."
Addressing more than 1,000 people at the $430-a-plate dinner sponsored by the New Hampshire Conservative Political Victory Fund, Mr. Buchanan criticized the President for supporting a tax increase as part of the budget agreement negotiated with Congressional leaders in October 1990. Mr. Bush's agreement to those increases, which contradicted his 1988 campaign pledge of "no new taxes," has been the mantra of the Buchanan campaign.
"We have got to begin standing up again for what we've always stood for as Republicans and conservatives," Mr. Buchanan said. "When Federal spending is consuming a record 26 percent of the gross national product, that is not conservatism and that is not Republicanism."
Mr. Buchanan also called into question Mr. Bush's political courage. "One reason I admired Ronald Reagan is that when he came to Washington, he buckled on his sword and he went out and fought from Day One for what he wanted," he said.
Mr. Buchanan was referring to Mr. Bush's deadline for Congress to enact his economic proposals, a deadline that few expect Congress to meet.
After Mr. Buchanan had finished his speech and left the hall, the audience watched a videotaped endorsement of Mr. Bush by Mr. Reagan.
On the tape the former President took note of the fact that Mr. Bush was not at the dinner. "He's in Washington wrestling with the liberals in Congress that are trying to block his agenda for your future," Mr. Reagan said. "And, although now we face some hard times, I believe that the experienced leadership of George Bush is our best hope to build a stronger America."
When word spread before the dinner that Mr. Reagan would endorse Mr. Bush, it caused a stir among some members of the group sponsoring the event. Officials of the organization, a political action committee, said that it would take no position in the New Hampshire Republican primary.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 11, 1992, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about a speech by Patrick J. Buchanan attacking President Bush referred incorrectly to the event at which he spoke. It was a $30-a-plate dinner in Manchester, N.H., not a $430-a-plate dinner.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NEW HAMPSHIRE CONSERVATIVE POLITICAL VICTORY FUND

ORGANIZATION: NEW HAMPSHIRE CONSERVATIVE POLITICAL VICTORY FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW HAMPSHIRE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; RECORDINGS (VIDEO); ENDORSEMENTS CONSERVATISM (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); TAX LAW (73%); BUDGETS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (68%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; HOLMES, STEVEN A RONALD REAGAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



379 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: A Plea for Truth-in-Bashing

BYLINE: By James Fallows; James Fallows, Washington editor of The Atlantic, is working on a book about East Asia.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Reasonable people can disagree abut whether a "buy American" campaign makes sense. But we could do without several fatuous arguments:
1. You can't tell where this stuff comes from anyway. Even the hard-headed Mike Royko has fallen for this. In a recent column, he said that he'd bought an American car and a friend had bought Japanese -- but that the Japanese car was made in America and was probably more American than the real thing. Hah! The joke was on the buy-American crowd. 
 In principle, corporations might eventually lose all ties to their parent nations. This is nearly the case with American computer makers. None of the major components of Apple, Compaq, Dell or other "American" computers are produced in the U.S., except for the microprocessing chip itself.
But "American" cars are overwhelmingly made in America. Because Chrysler buys many engines from Mitsubishi, the North American content of its cars is less than Ford's or G.M.'s. Because Honda builds engines in Ohio, its North American content is higher than Toyota's or Nissan's. But the Big Three are all much more "American" than any Japanese brand. The average North American content for Chrysler vehicles is more than 85 percent. According to Canadian officials inspecting "made in Ohio" Hondas, it remains an open question whether the cars are even 50 percent North American.
This doesn't prove that Americans should reject cars from Japanese "transplants," or even that they should care where their cars come from. But we should stop pretending that the origin is an unsolvable enigma.
2. The whiff of racism is in the air. It's foolish ever to rule out racism as a factor, but the term is being applied reflexively to controversies that have simpler explanations. I don't care who owns the Seattle Mariners -- and if I did, I'd choose Nintendo over George Steinbrenner any day. But there is no evidence that baseball is resisting the Nintendo owners because of their race rather than their nationality. Suppose Senator Daniel Inouye were buying the team. Would anyone complain?
To many people in Japan, the distinction between nationality and "race" may seem elusive. To Americans, the distinction should be clear and fundamental. If we think that clashes of national interests with Japan inevitably have the "whiff of racism" because the countries' racial make-up differs, then we're logically forced to consider Japan's many nationalistic policies racist as well -- including its ban on foreign ownership of its baseball teams.
Japan's ban on rice imports penalizes racially non-Japanese farmers from Thailand to Arkansas. It's enough to call this policy "pig-headed" or "protectionist," without insisting that it's racist as well. If you disagree with the protests over Nintendo in Seattle, just call them "xenophobic." There's no reason to haul in the most loaded term in our political language.
3. If our schools are bad, then we've got no problems with Japan. Most oratory suggests only two possible explanations for trade problems. Either the Japanese economy is unfair, closed and tricky, or else Americans are lazy, spendthrift and dumb. To the extent one explanation is true, we can ignore the other -- as the standard editorial does when saying: We mustn't lecture the Japanese until we [fix our schools, cut the budget deficit, stop crime, etc.].
Our brains should be big enough to contain two ideas -- that we have both internal and external problems. Does anyone think Koreans are dumb and lazy? Yet Korea has a big economic imbalance with Japan, much like ours. So do Taiwan, Singapore and other get-the-job-done societies. America's budget deficit and low savings increase the size of our trade deficit, but they're not the only factors involved.
America has serious social problems, which would be serious even if there were no other countries in the world. The auto-parts trade deficit is not the reason we should care about families or schools; the texture of our life is. But we also have long-term economic problems with Japan, which most other countries share.
Agree or disagree with Dick Gephardt and Lee Iacocca, as you choose -- but if you disagree, don't assume that they're bigots, or that they're trying to distract attention from America's shortcomings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (56%); 7974 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (79%); THAILAND (50%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (56%); NINTENDO CO LTD (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (79%); THAILAND (50%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (88%); BASEBALL (85%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); COMPUTER MAKERS (70%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (67%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (67%); IMPORT CONTROLS (62%); PROTECTIONISM (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: FALLOWS, JAMES DANIEL INOUYE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992



380 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Suspect Is Arrested In Woman's Killing In Crown Heights

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
A 23-year-old unemployed handyman, who the police said may have offered to do odd jobs so he could case houses to burglarize, was charged yesterday in the brutal stabbing death of a Hasidic woman in the Crown Heights neighborhood in Brooklyn.
The slaying on Thursday was followed by a rock-and bottle-throwing incident between Hasidim and black and Hispanic residents -- a brief echo of the violence that erupted there last summer after a black child was killed by a car driven by a Hasidic man and an Australian rabbinical student was slain. 
 The victim last week, Phyllis Lapine, was stabbed more than 30 times after returning home from a shopping trip.
The police identified the suspect as Romane LaFond, a black man who lives with his parents in a ground-floor apartment at 1625 President Street, a few blocks from Mrs. Lapine's house. They said he had long arrest record, had been arrested for a burglary in Crown Heights last August and was being questioned on a sex-abuse warrant when detectives made a connection to the Lapine case.
Police officials said the warrant was issued in connection with a first-degree assault on a Hasidic woman in the neighborhood on Dec. 26. Detectives refused to provide the details of the incident, but said it did not involve rape or sodomy.
Demands by the community for an arrest in the stabbing put intense pressure on the police, City Hall and other public officials. The Hasidic community had planned to demonstrate every night until an arrest was made, and the announcement that a suspect had been taken into custody drew immediate praise from community leaders. The streets of Crown Heights were quiet last night, but more police officers than usual were on duty. Riot gear was stacked within arm's reach at the precinct station house, but was not needed.
Chief of Detectives Joseph R. Borrelli said at a news conference last night that detectives "got help from the entire Crown Heights community" -- including blacks and Hasidim -- that pointed to Mr. LaFond, who was charged with murder, burglary and weapons possession.
"Everybody will be able to sleep at night," the victim's husband, Dennis Lapine, said after the arrest was announced. Sitting in the home where his wife had been killed, surrounded by friends and family, including his two sons, he added, "There's a God in the world who controls things."
Police officials gave different answers when asked what the motive for the slaying was -- Deputy Inspector Lawrence Loesch said it appeared to have been robbery, but other police officials said they were uncertain -- but there was a consensus that bias was not a factor. The police said they were not classifying Mrs. Lapine's killing as a bias crime, and Rabbi Joseph B. Spielman, the head of the Crown Heights Jewish Community Council, called it "a plain act of wanton violence, rather than bias."
The police said that Mr. Lafond's record included two arrests on burglary charges, two on assault charges, one on robbery charges and one on weapons possession charges. Law-enforcement officials said he had been sentenced to 2 to 6 years in prison on one of the robbery charges in 1985, had served some time in jail and had completed his parole last year. They said they did not know how the other cases had been resolved.
At Mr. LaFond's five-story apartment building last night, neighbors described him as a disturbed young man who hung around the neighborhood because he did not have a steady job. One person said he had helped out with a van service. Neighbors and the police said Mr. LaFond had a stormy relationship with his parents.
After Mrs. Lapine's body was found on Thursday, the police said she had been killed by an intruder who apparently surprised her when she returned home from the supermarket. She was carrying bags of groceries that were still on the front stoop hours after she died.
Chief Borrelli said Mr. LaFond had apparently tried to talk his way into houses in the neighborhood by posing as a handyman. "He has come to people's attention, trying some kind of a story that he's a handyman and he does odd jobs," Chief Borrelli said.
The chief said that people in the neighborhood said they had seen Mr. LaFond around the time Mrs. Lapine died. "There was some rumors going around that an individual was seen in the vicinity," Chief Borrelli said. "The people from the community were able to give us a lead as to who that individual might be."
 
Found by Neighbor
 Mrs. Lapine's body was found on the living-room couch in the brick house after her 5-year-old son, Avrohom, arrived home from his school, the Lubavitch Yeshiva. Unable to get in, Avrohom went to a neighbor, who opened the door and found the body.
The police said they found Mrs. Lapine's 2-year-old daughter, Sarah Chanah, hiding under a bed.
In the confusion that followed the discovery of the body and compounded the horror of a case in which the police initially said they had no witnesses and no suspects, detectives said that Mrs. Lapine's dress had been "pushed up." But they did not say whether she had been sexually assaulted. Last night Chief Borrelli said the authorities were waiting for the results of an autopsy.
In the first hours after Mrs. Lapine's handbag was found on a couch, detectives were not sure whether any money had been taken. The side door of the house appeared to have been jimmied open, but the police were not certain whether the marks on the door were new or whether the house had been broken into before.
 
Chants by Hasidim
 As details of the slaying spread through the tightly knit Hasidic community in Crown Heights, where Hasidic Jews and blacks have lived in an uneasy coexistence for years, Jewish demonstrators expressed heated anger at the crime. Some Hasidim marched through the streets, chanting "No more welfare!" and "Go back to Africa!"
The next day, black residents watched as about 4,000 Hasidim marched in a long funeral procession to the Lapines' home on Lefferts Avenue. Aware of the potential for trouble, hundreds of police officers were assigned to extra patrols in Crown Heights.
Last night, there was relief that someone had been charged, and kind words for the detective work that led to Mr. LaFond's arrest. Rabbi Jacob Goldstein, the chairman of Community Board 9, said: "Quick efficient police action is to be highly commended. All of the residents of the community can sleep better tonight. One member of the community said we have to have a Desert Storm parade for the cops."
Eli Blachman, a next door neighbor of the Lapines who is taking care of their four children, said: "The murderer has been caught, but we still have to help the children. These children have no mother."
Echoing the comments of other Jews in Crown Heights last night, Rabbi Spielman, of the Crown Heights Jewish Community Council, said, "The response of the police was proper and on time. We hope this will continue when it comes to preventing these crimes."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Romane LaFond, center, a 23-year-old unemployed handyman, has been charged in the stabbing death last week of Phyllis Lapine. He was being led by police officers last night from the 69th Precinct in Brooklyn. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times); "There's a God in the world who controls things," the victim's husband, Dennis Lapine, said after the arrest was announced. He held 4-year-old daughter, Mira, at his home in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. (Steve Berman for The New York Times) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CROWN HEIGHTS JEWISH COMMUNITY COUNCIL

ORGANIZATION: CROWN HEIGHTS JEWISH COMMUNITY COUNCIL

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CROWN HEIGHTS (NYC); BROOKLYN (NYC) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; RACIAL RELATIONS ARRESTS (92%); RELIGION (91%); ROBBERY (90%); ARREST WARRANTS (90%); BURGLARY (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); MURDER (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); RIOTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); HATE CRIME (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); 

PERSON: BARRON, JAMES; LAPINE, PHYLLIS; LAFOND, ROMANE; SPIELMAN, JOSEPH B (RABBI) PHYLLIS LAPINE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



381 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Harkin Wins at Home
Senator Tom Harkin led in the Democratic caucuses in Iowa and seemed certain to get a boost by obtaining a record vote. Page A23.
 
Airlift to Former Soviets
 An international airlift of food and medical aid for the former Soviet Union began, with the aim of giving short-term help and hope. Page A14.
 
Retreat by United Airlines
 With recession lingering, United pulled back from an ambitious expansion, cutting spending and postponing delivery of new planes. Page D1.
 
Zurich Closes Drug Park
 After years of crime and other drug-related problems, Zurich has ended its experiment with an open drug market in a public park. Page A10.
 
Alex Haley Dies
 The author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning "Roots," which chronicled his family's history in slavery and freedom, was 70 years old. Page B8.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Alex Haley (Associated Press, 1988)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CAUCUSES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (86%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); AIRLINES (69%); SLAVERY (68%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (68%); WRITERS (66%); 

PERSON: TOM HARKIN (74%); ALEXANDER 'ALEX' MURRAY PALMER HALEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



382 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: DINKINS PLAN GIVES MINORITY CONCERNS MORE IN CONTRACTS

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
Asserting the time had come to correct decades of rampant discrimination in the city's procurement process, Mayor David N. Dinkins announced a sweeping policy initiative yesterday to award more than 20 percent of city contracts to businesses owned by minorities or women.
Mr. Dinkins said that he had instructed city agencies to develop a program to increase the amount of business the city gives to companies owned by minorities and women. 
 The details of the plan have yet to be worked out, but Mr. Dinkins said the program would not include quotas for the awarding of contracts.
The plan represents the first time that the city has sponsored a government contract program to aid minorities and women.
 
Change in Policy
 In the past, New York City adopted preferences for small businesses and companies based in the city, but such programs were conducted without reference to race, ethnic background or sex. To qualify for Federal transportation money, the city requires that minorities make up a certain percentage of the subcontractors who work on transit projects.
The proposal by the Mayor could put the city at the forefront of efforts by a government entity to set preference goals in the aftermath of a 1989 Supreme Court decision. The court ruled that a similar set-aside program for public works contracts in Richmond was unconstitutional, finding that such programs could be justified only if they served the "compelling state interest" of redressing "identified discrimination," either by the Government or by private parties.
The challenge to the Richmond ordinance was brought in 1983 by the J. A. Croson Company, a white-owned mechanical plumbing and heating contractor. Croson lost a bid to supply toilets for the city jail when it was unable to certify that it would use a minority-owned subcontractor for 30 percent of the $126,000 contract. The city denied the company's request for a waiver of the 30 percent requirement.
While other major cities like Atlanta, Chicago, Denver, Seattle, and San Francisco have adopted programs that set aside contracts for companies whose owners are women or members of minority groups, the Supreme Court ruling in the Richmond case has forced many cities dismantle such programs or to show specific evidence of past discrimination.
To prove that such an affirmative action program is justified in New York City, the Mayor released a study yesterday that showed companies owned by minorities and women make up 25 percent of the businesses that compete for municipal contracts but that these companies received only 7 percent of the $2.3 billion in contracts reviewed in the study.
Aides to Mr. Dinkins predicted yesterday that the Mayor's plan would withstand any court challenge because the study establishes "a pattern of individual discriminatory acts" that "lend support to a local government's determination that race-conscious remedial relief is justified," as defined in the Supreme Court ruling.
 
Examining Contracts
 The study, which was conducted by National Economic Research Associates, a private consulting firm, examined contracts and purchase orders issued by city agencies for construction, professional services, and supplies for the 1989 and 1990 fiscal years. On major construction contracts, the study found that black-owned businesses received 17 cents of every dollar the city had expected them to receive. Asian businesses received 14 cents and businesses owned by women received 20 cents.
For Mayor Dinkins, the affirmative action program allows him to make good on his long-standing promise to address the concerns of the city's minority community at a time when he is seeking re-election and needs to solidify his core constituency. By using an executive order, the Mayor did not need the approval of the City Council or any other body to set up the program.
"I hope the day comes soon when we are treated fairly and equally for our good work, not denigrated because of our gender or whence our ancestors came," said Mr. Dinkins, announcing the new program at a City Hall meeting attended by women and minority business executives and community leaders.
Minority-owed business development groups praised the Mayor's initiative yesterday, saying that it would encourage minorities and women to form new businesses and joint-ventures with established contractors to compete for city contracts.
"Given the racial and ethnic composition of New York, a program like this is long overdue, but I commend the Mayor for finally biting the bullet and going ahead with it," said Harriet R. Michel, president of the National Minority Supplier Development Council, which matches major corporations with minority suppliers.
But former Mayor Edward I. Koch, who declined to adopt set-aside programs for women and minorities during his administration, said yesterday that he opposed such programs because they discriminated against white males who own comparable businesses. "Dave Dinkins cloaks this as goals, but it is a set-aside program based on race and it will be struck down like the Richmond case," Mr. Koch said.
Instead of an affirmative action program, the former Mayor said that Mr. Dinkins should use an executive order to bar contractors who discriminate from doing business with the city.
Frank McArdle, who heads the General Contractors Association, which represents heavy construction industry, said: "We look forward to working with the Mayor in implementing his new initiative to insure the city gets the maximum amount of competition and equal opportunity for its contracting industry."
Kenneth J. Knuckles, the Commissioner of General Services, which is the city's landlord and purchasing agent, said that while plans to begin the Mayor's initiative were still being developed, the city was likely to split some large contracts into smaller parts and speed up payments to give minority- and women-owned businesses more opportunity to compete.
Dinkins administration officials said that the city had no plans to change the current standards and rules for competing for city business and that city would insure that minority and women contractors were not fronts for other businesses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL MINORITY SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MINORITY SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC WORKS; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; CONTRACTS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); WOMEN MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (91%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); APPEALS (87%); ETHNICITY (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); CONTRACT AWARDS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (78%); WOMEN (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); PLUMBING & HVAC CONTRACTORS (72%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (68%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (64%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) DAVID N DINKINS (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



383 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-15
 
OIL FUELS SIBERIAN CAPITALISM
 Oil may ooze in parts of Tyumen Province, but the wealth has not been pumped back into Russia. In a capitalistic game with few rules, entrepreneurs are trying to model Western-style oil conglomerates from the old state-run operations. A1
 
AIRLIFT BRINGS HINTS OF MORE AID
 Planeloads of food and medical aid began arriving in the Commonwealth of Independent States, accompanied by hints that the U.S. may take part in a longer-term, multibillion-dollar stabilization fund for the Russian economy. A14
Party was investing in capitalist ventures before the coup. A15
Finns travel back in time to Karelia, now part of Russia. A4
 
WHAT WENT WRONG IN ZURICH?
 Iron fences now bar Zurich's experimental open drug market in a public park, but the closing leaves many questions unresolved. A10
 
CUTTERS RESCUE, THEN RETURN
 The Coast Guard cutter Mohawk is carrying rescued Haitian boat people to Cuba, then ferrying home others forced back by the U.S. A7
 
THORNBURGH OFFERED U.N. POST
 President Bush wants former Attorney General Dick Thornburgh to be the American to fill a new top post at the United Nations overseeing budget and administration, officials say. A5
 
THWARTING MARCH ON KASHMIR
Pakistani soldiers set off landslides, dismantled bridges and erected barricades today to stop Muslim militants from marching into the Indian-controlled area of Kashmir. A12
 
FIRE AND BLOOD IN VENEZUELA
 Coup plotters in Venezuela were inspired by 19th-century military writings and by Thomas Jefferson's statement, "the tree of liberty should be irrigated from time to time with the blood of patriots and tyrants," documents say. A6
 Argentina officially opens its files on Nazis. A8
 
POLICE AMBUSHED IN ALGIERS
 Islamic fundamentalists killed eight police officers today, six of them in an ambush in the Casbah, in the heaviest assaults since the military took power a month ago. A13
 
National A16-23
 
SHAKE-UP AT MAKER OF IMPLANTS
 Hours after Dow Corning made public internal company documents suggesting that some officials had been informed that its breast implants might be hazardous, the company replaced its chief executive. A1
 
SPECULATIONS ON DOW CORNING
 The naming of a new chief executive at Dow Corning may not be the last leadership change in the company as it struggles to deal with the issue of breast implants. A18
 
THE POST-SUNUNU WHITE HOUSE
 Two months after he replaced John Sununu as chief of staff, Samuel Skinner is given some good marks, but Administration officials and Republican advisers say the problems Mr. Sununu left behind continue to plague the White House. A1
 
CHANGES IN FOOD LABELING
 The Government offered revisions of its proposals for stricter food labeling, prompting criticism that it was making the labels more confusing rather than simplifying them. A16
 
UNCERTAINTY IN NEW HAMPSHIRE
 New Hampshire's voters, proud of their independence and ability to surprise, next week may gladden the hearts of senior Democrats who hope for an early end to the 1992 campaign, but it doesn't appear likely. Political Week. A22
 
CLINTON ON OFFENSIVE
 Calling himself the victim of a "Republican attack machine," Governor Clinton went on the political offensive and promised to "fight like hell" in the last eight days of the primary campaign. A22
 
HARKIN WINS AT HOME
 Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, to no one's surprise, won decisively in his home state's Democratic Presidential caucuses. A23
 Amidst low turnout and less attention, Iowans speak. A23
 
BUSH AND HIS FOE
 In the battle for Republican voters in New Hampshire, President Bush attacked, while his challenger, Pat Buchanan, tried a softer approach. A22
 Lawyers debate extent of Noriega's assistance in the drug war. A16
 The U.S. still leads the world in per capita imprisonment. A16
 
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
MORE CONTRACTS FOR MINORITIES
 Mayor Dinkins announces a plan to award more than 20 percent of the city's contracts to businesses owned by minorities or women, in what he says is an effort to correct decades of discrimination in the city's procurement process. A1
 
UNLIKELY COLLECTORS
 They are an ordinary couple, who live in a one-bedroom rent-controlled apartment in Manhattan. He is a retired postal clerk; she is a retired librarian. But Herbert and Dorothy Vogel have dazzled the art world with their collection of contemporary art. A1
 
ARREST IN WOMAN'S KILLING
 A 23-year-old black man was charged in the slaying of a Hasidic woman in Crown Heights that pushed the troubled neighborhood to the brink of another racial confrontation. A1
 
Neediest Cases B6
 
Business Digest, D1
 
Science Times C1-10
 
Protein as origami, with folding "chaperones." C1
Of love in space, with NASA uneasily exploring the implications. C1
 
Sports B10-17
 
TYSON GUILTY OF RAPE
 Mike Tyson, one of the most recognizable figures in sports, was found guilty of raping an 18-year-old beauty-pageant contestant last July in Indianapolis. The 25-year-old former heavyweight boxing champion will be sentenced on March 6. A1
Boxing: How Tyson's conviction changes the picture. B11
 
LAST STAND ON ICE
 The name isn't the only thing that has changed about the hockey team from what was once the Soviet Union. At the Winter Olympics, the team that once ruled the world's ice is making what could be its last stand. A1
 Olympics: Blair repeats in speed-skating 500. B11
 
Fashion Page B9
 
Obituaries B8
Alex Haley, Pulitzer prize winning author of "Roots."
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
Some blunt words on ballet, from Erick Hawkins. C11
Theater: "George Washington Dances." C16
Music: Jessye Norman. C11
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A24-25
Editorials A24
Side with Haitian refugees.
Not so fast, Mr. Fernandez.
Bush's New York "victory."
Topics: Miami terrorism.
 
Letters A24
A. M. Rosenthal: Letter to two men. A25
Patrick J. Leahy: Loan guarantees for Israel -- it's their choice. A25
Zeev B. Begin: Stop the coercion of Israel. A25
George M. Woodwell and Kilaparti Ramakrishna: Forest scapegoats. A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); INDIA (73%); 

STATE: JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (73%); 

COMPANY: DOW CORNING CORP (52%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (57%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (57%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); INDIA (73%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COUPS (89%); FOOD LABELING (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (87%); EXECUTIVES (87%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); RELIGION (70%); LANDSLIDES (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); FUNDAMENTALISM (65%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (53%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (52%); 

PERSON: JOHN SUNUNU (75%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



384 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Problems at White House Persist 2 Months Into New Chief's Tenure

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 10

 BODY:
Two months after John H. Sununu's removal, Administration officials and Republican advisers say the organizational and political problems that the former chief of staff left behind still plague the White House.
The new chief of staff, Samuel K. Skinner, has tried to make his mark by smoothing relations between the White House and the campaign and by undertaking a much-advertised reorganization of the White House staff. 
 The reorganization, like the chief of staff himself, is too fresh to be judged fully. But Mr. Skinner's influence has been evident in Mr. Bush's sudden willingness to recognize the reality of the current recession and to compromise with Congress where Mr. Sununu had been unbending, as on a 13-week extension of unemployment benefits and on restrictions on chemicals that damage the atmospheric ozone layer.
 
'Pretty Substantial Team'
 Mr. Skinner said he had appointed a "pretty substantial team." Since he has been in the job he has helped President Bush produce an economic growth plan and a proposal for health care changes that Republicans were demanding of the White House for months.
But the economic plan has received as much criticism as praise, with critics saying it reflects the continued influence of Richard G. Darman, the budget director, rather than any new direction.
A number of Administration officials and Republicans say President Bush is still hobbled by disjointed communications, poorly planned campaign trips, squabbling over domestic policy and rivalries among policy makers.
Mr. Skinner is known to be frustrated by what he regards as the marginal competence of some holdovers from the Sununu period, but feels that he cannot clean house too abruptly for reasons of public relations and morale.
The overall picture that emerges is that of a rocky first month of an election year, with Republican strategists and some Administration officials giving Mr. Skinner's performance mediocre grades but hoping that the President, Mr. Skinner and the campaign team can restore the political edge and efficiency of Mr. Bush's 1988 operation.
The centerpiece of the White House reorganization is the appointment of Clayton K. Yeutter, the former Agriculture Secretary, to a new post charged with centralizing what had been a diffuse policy-making apparatus. But even before Mr. Yeutter takes office, Mr. Skinner has made clear that his job will be as a "broker" of ideas, not as the architect of policy.
And many Republicans questioned whether the appointment of Mr. Yeutter gave Mr. Bush much political benefit externally or extra policy muscle internally. Similarly, many of Mr. Bush's aides and advisers questioned the appointment of Andrew H. Card Jr., a White House aide, as Transportation Secretary in an election year when Mr. Bush might have benefited from choosing a woman, a member of a minority or someone who also came from outside the department but who represented some useful political constituency.
On the political side, Mr. Skinner has formed a potentially powerful partnership with Mr. Bush's campaign chairman, Robert M. Teeter, which both men are counting on to give them influence over policy in the campaign. The two men have put together a more aggressive schedule for Mr. Bush in the week remaining before the New Hampshire primary. The President plans to announce his candidacy formally on Wednesday at two events, one in Washington and the other in New Hampshire. He will spend the entire weekend in New Hampshire instead of just Saturday, as originally planned.
Disappointed officials and party strategists called the White House reorganization a series of compromises and half-measures that reflected Mr. Bush's basic conviction that there was nothing wrong with his staff or his policies, that the economy would soon right itself and that he would be re-elected in November.
"The President is not panicked enough to think things really have to change," one official said.
Officials and party strategists said Mr. Skinner had also not challenged the dominance of Mr. Darman and Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady.
Nor have Mr. Skinner's changes filled what a senior Republican called a "vacuum" in the White House: No one has emerged to fill James A. Baker 3d's role of previous campaigns -- giving Mr. Bush unvarnished counsel and carrying the weight, as one strategist put it, "to make him stick to the script when he has to."
 
On the Campaign Trail
 This absence of direction seems evident in Mr. Bush's performance on the campaign trail, where he has stumbled through several erratic speeches with little in the way of a coherent political message. The President, never a master ad-libber, has ad-libbed his way through small-bore appearances -- looking out of touch as he marveled at electronic scanners at a mock supermarket or, as he did in New Hampshire last month, repeating his stage directions ("Message: I care").
In Washington, Cabinet members continue to question major policy decisions, sometimes in public. Housing Secretary Jack F. Kemp Jr. calledsome of the President's budget proposals "gimmicks" and was then forced to apologize.
Last week, Mr. Darman openly challenged Mr. Yeutter. "I work for the President," Mr. Darman snapped when asked if Mr. Yeutter would have authority over him.
John P. Sears, a former campaign manager for President Ronald Reagan, said: "They don't have any politicians in the place. Politicians used to be those guys who didn't run for office and helped those who did. There was another category of people that used to be called candidates, who ran for office. That's what they've got, candidates and no politicians."
Mr. Skinner, who is concerned enough about his image to call a reporter back the day after an interview to offer names of lawmakers who would say he is doing a good job, tersely dismissed criticism of his performance as "carping."
He said his new team would mend President Bush's ailing domestic policy apparatus. "The President gave me the latitude to backfill in some key positions," he said, "and we believe with the talent that's here we've put together a team that will do a great job for him. The President would not have made a change like this if he didn't think there was a problem."
Administration officials credit Mr. Skinner with ending a reign of fear under Mr. Sununu, permitting more voices to be heard in Mr. Bush's councils and stopping short of a clean sweep through the White House staff.
But officials said that the openness often produced a cacophony, not new ideas, and that Mr. Skinner was still groping for control under intense pressure from the unfolding campaign.
Officials also said it was not compassion that prevented wholesale dismissals at the White House but the pressures of the budget and the campaign, coupled with a reluctance by Mr. Skinner to take on Mr. Darman and Mr. Brady.
In addition to Mr. Yeutter, who was named a counselor to the President for domestic affairs, Mr. Skinner, acting with Mr. Bush's approval, named Henson Moore, the Deputy Secretary of Energy, as the deputy chief of staff, and Sherrie Rollins as director of public liaison. He added the job of coordinating all White House communications to the portfolio of Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman.
 
'Fresh New Advice'
 "When you have two former Cabinet officers with records of their own in top staff jobs," Mr. Skinner said, "plus one of the strongest deputies in the Cabinet, who is a former Congressman, you're going to bring into the process some fresh new advice and counsel."
But Bush advisers and aides said moving Mr. Yeutter to the White House from chairman of the Republican National Committee was primarily intended to make a space at the top of the party for Richard N. Bond, a longtime Bush aide considered a more able political tactician and spokesman.
Many Administration officials and Bush advisers doubt Mr. Yeutter will be able to exert his will over Mr. Darman.
Last week, at a breakfast with reporters, Mr. Darman offered this characteristically complex locution when asked if Mr. Skinner's reorganization would diminish his authority:
"I can't think of an answer to that question that would not cause me a problem," he said. "If I were to say that I thought my influence would increase, you would write that Darman is characteristically arrogant and who knows what else. If I were to say that I thought my influence would decrease, you would say, Darman's, well, diminished. If I were to say about the same, it would make a whole lot of people unhappy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SUNUNU, JOHN H; SKINNER, SAMUEL K; DARMAN, RICHARD G (BUDGET DIR) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN SUNUNU (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



385 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: As Food Airlift Starts, Baker Hints U.S. Might Agree to Role in a Ruble Fund

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Feb. 10

 BODY:
An international airlift with food and medical aid for the former Soviet Union got under way today, with the aim of providing critical short-term help as well as hope for the newly independent countries struggling through the winter, the organizers said.
Shortly before the airlift, which is being called Operation Provide Hope, began in a hailstorm at Rhein-Main Air Base outside Frankfurt, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, who attended the opening, hinted for the first time that Washington might be prepared to take part in a longer-term, multibillion-dollar stabilization fund for the Russian economy. 
 This would be on the condition that it was tied to an economic reform program worked out with the International Monetary Fund.
Mr. Baker made his remarks, on his flight from Washington to Germany, perhaps partly in response to complaints by Boris N. Yeltsin after the Russian President's visit to Washington 10 days ago. Mr. Yeltsin said some Western nations were not doing enough to support his economic reforms.
 
Diverting Attention
 Today's airlift, initially organized by the United States at a 47-nation aid conference in Washington last month, seemed both a gesture to provide some substantial relief in an emergency, as well as a publicity maneuver intended to overshadow how slow and relatively limited the overall American aid contribution has been.
For the next 10 to 14 days, American C-141 and C-5A cargo planes, which began lumbering off today from Rhein-Main in Germany and from two air bases in Turkey, will ferry roughly $60 million worth of food, medicine and medical equipment left over from the Persian Gulf war to 23 sites in the new Commonwealth of Independent States. These range from St. Petersburg in the north, to Armenia in the south, to Kazakhstan in the east.
The food includes tons of canned lasagna, apple pie filling, dehydrated pork chops and other military rations.
Planes from Germany, France, Italy and Japan also flew in aid today, The Associated Press reported.
American teams, flown in earlier, will meet the shipments on arrival and try to make sure that they get to the orphanages, hospitals and other relief centers for which they are intended.
 
Flights Are Ultimately Costly
 Officials emphasized that the airlift was largely symbolic, acknowledging that it would only begin to address the problem of shortages in the independent republics.
As Richard L. Armitage, the American coordinator for the operation explained, one huge C-5A packed with food carries only enough to support an active Moscow soup kitchen through two dinners. The entire American food contribution amounts to 16 million meals, enough to feed all of Moscow for two nights or so.
Some of the flights are carrying Agriculture Department butter and powdered milk that was supposed to have gone by ship weeks ago, but because of logistical trouble was piled up at American docks. Ultimately, Mr. Armitage said, the use of planes is neither efficient nor economical in providing bulk assistance, and a better use of ships and railroads must be found.
Last fall, Congress gave the Administration $100 million to transport such aid, and this is the first use being made of it.
"Our objective," said Mr. Baker, who stopped in Frankfurt to be photographed beginning the airlift that he had initiated, "was not only to help stem a rising tide of human misery, but to send a message of hope and support in hard times.
"We know that 54 American flights will not stock all the emergency pharmacies of Ukraine, Uzbekistan or Azerbaijan," he continued. "But these flights will provide emergency food and medical supplies. And above all, they will carry a dramatic message of hope to the peoples of the new independent states."
While the American contribution consists of roughly 2,000 tons of bulk food and medicine, the European Community has been giving 400 tons of food a day, and in this airlift Belgium is providing an amount that is almost half the American total.
The airlift and a briefing for reporters traveling with Mr. Baker reflected the double message that the Bush Administration is sending about assistance to the countries of the former Soviet Union.
 
Leadership vs. Politics
 On one level, Washington believes that if it is to maintain leadership of the Western alliance, it must be seen as taking the lead in the Russian aid effort. In a line that will probably not be well received in Europe, Mr. Baker, in his speech at Rhein-Main, thanked "the other members of the international community who have decided to join the United States in this effort."
But on another level, in this election year, President Bush and Secretary Baker do not want to be in the position of asking the American people for any significant amount of new revenue to help the former Soviet Union. This airlift of leftover gulf war supplies seems intended to answer that problem.
The Administration does appear to be taking the first tentative steps toward considering establishment of a long-term currency-stabilization fund, something the Russians have been seeking for some time.
This is a pool of cash that would stabilize the ruble by assuring both Russians and foreigners that the currency could be exchanged at a fixed rate, because it would be backed by a multibillion-dollar fund. Mr. Yeltsin has requested a support fund for the ruble of $5 to $6 billion, and a parallel fund for critical imports.
After months of declaring that it was premature even to discuss the conditions under which the United States might take part in a ruble fund, Mr. Baker has very cautiously started to lay the groundwork, in public, for an American contribution.
In the most tentative words possible, he told reporters today that "it may well be that there might be some participation by nations either as a group or bilaterally in support" of a Russian stabilization program that was approved by the International Monetary Fund. This would first require full Russian membership in the I.M.F., which is expected late in April, and a "credible economic reform program."
He acknowledged that countries might have to contribute to a Russian fund "over and above" their regular payments to the International Monetary Fund. Such an American special payment might come to at least $2 billion.
Mr. Baker insisted that the Administration had taken no concrete steps to establish a fund, but that it was now being discussed more seriously.
Reporters traveling with the Secretary of State were told that if the stabilization program is effective, as has been the case in Poland, the money in the fund is "never used," because the fund's existence provides the assurances required to successfully stabilize the currency.
The underlying message was that it would not cost the American taxpayer anything. Reporters were also told the United States would not support a parallel fund that provided cash to enable the Russians to import consumer goods. That would be difficult to explain in an election year.
 
Bottom Lines
 In total, the United States has pledged about $5.75 billion in aid to the former Soviet states, including about $3.75 billion in credits for food, of which $3.1 billion have already been used. Operation Provide Hope includes $44 million for food, $34 million in medical-related aid, and transportation costs just under $10 million.
Since 1990, the European Community has offered roughly $80 billion in assistance, mostly from Germany. The Japanese have pledged $3 billion and Saudi Arabia, $1.5 billion; many other nations are contributing, too.
Mr. Baker leaves Frankfurt tonight, and his itinerary will take him to seven former Soviet republics: Moldova, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Russia.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
First Shipment Arrives
MOSCOW, Feb. 10 (AP) -- American soldiers handed over surplus food and medicine to Russian troops today as the first wave of planes arrived at Sheremetyevo Airport, near Moscow.
"It's a little shameful that my country has come to this," said Pvt. Andrei Chernyi, a 19-year-old recruit. "But what can you do? That's life."
 To prevent the aid from ending up on the black market, Salvation Army workers rode the food trucks from the airport to a military warehouse, which will be guarded 24 hours a day.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supplies being unloaded yesterday in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, as an international airlift of food and medical aid for the former Soviet Union began. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); ARMENIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); JAPAN (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); FRANCE (57%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); ARMENIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); JAPAN (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); FRANCE (57%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIRLIFTS; FOOD INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); HOSPITALS (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); AIR FREIGHT (69%); DESERT STORM (68%); POLITICS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (60%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



386 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Dow Corning replaced its chief executive within hours after making public more internal documents suggesting it knew that its silicone gel breast implants might be hazardous. [Page A1.] Business consultants supported Dow's change of leadership. [A18.] 
 Twenty percent of New York City's contracts will go to businesses owned by minorities or women under a new policy [A1.]
United Airlines cut its capital spending by $6.7 billion over the next three years and postponed the delivery of new aircraft. Poor traffic and heavy fare discounting forced the pullback. [D1.]
Salomon Brothers juggled senior executives, retooling the investment banking section and promoting executives from London and Tokyo to the executive committee. [D1.]
Time Warner's latest quarterly results swung to a profit for the first time since it took on $11 billion in debt when Time Inc. acquired Warner Communications in January 1990. [D1.]
Northern Telecom and Motorola plan to market equipment jointly to large operators of cellular telephone systems. [D1.]
Mutual Benefit Life plans to sell a partial interest in its profitable corporate life insurance business to Hartford Life. [D4.]
Lyondell Petrochemical said it found a way to recycle used motor oil and other lubricants into gasoline and heating oil. [D4.]
The executives who started Tri-Star Pictures and took over Columbia will start a new film distribution company. [D7.]
The New York Times Company reported a sharp rise in fourth-quarter earnings but said full-year profits were down. [D17.]
Consolidated Edison reached an agreement with the staff of the New York Public Service Commission that could bring a 19.8 percent rate increase over the next three years. [B1.]
 
The Economy
Few students go to Fort Lauderdale for spring break anymore, and that is just fine with local officials and most business owners, who are now aiming at families and foreign vacationers. [D1.]
Massachusetts began to offer fixed-rate mortgages that low-to-middle-income residents can more easily qualify to receive. [D4.]
 
International
Raduzhny, Russia, is wealthy as measured by oil coming out of the ground. But the downtown looks like a huge rundown housing project, with row after row of concrete apartments. [A1.]
Nintendo revised the statements of its president that the company hoped to move its headquarters to the U.S. [D2.]
The European edition of The Times of London featured a different logo and a new European arts page. [D17.]
 
 Markets
The Dow gained 19.68 points, but the American and Nasdaq composite indexes fell slightly. [D8.]
Prices of Treasury issues were mixed, as dealers prepared for three days of quarterly refunding auctions. [D15.]
The dollar rose and gold prices fell marginally overseas before rebounding slightly in the U.S. [D16.]
Cattle futures rose sharply after the Government reported a lower-than-expected tally of the United States cattle herd. [D16.]
 
Today's Columns
Shares of MGI Pharma lost more than half their value after the company halted clinical trials of its most important drug, which is used in chemotherapy. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
U.S. companies are reluctant to invest in Russia's oil fields, even as they risk millions elsewhere in the world on new wells. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [D2.]
The Winter Olympics are in full swing, but many of America's largest advertisers and their agencies are sitting this one out. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (66%); MSI (NYSE) (56%); ED (NYSE) (54%); 7974 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (66%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (54%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: TIME INC (69%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (66%); DOW CORNING CORP (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (54%); NINTENDO CO LTD (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); STOCK INDEXES (86%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (79%); AUCTIONS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); AIRLINES (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); HEATING OIL (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (73%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); AIRCRAFT MFG (72%); US DOLLAR (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (68%); LIFE INSURANCE (67%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (67%); FUTURES (66%); PETROCHEMICALS (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



387 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Thornburgh Is Seen as Likely to Take a U.N. Job

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Feb. 10

 BODY:
President Bush wants former Attorney General Dick Thornburgh to take a new top post at United Nations overseeing the organization's budget and administration, United Nations and American officials say.
The United Nations Secretary General, Boutros Ghali, asked Mr. Bush to find an American to fill this job when he attended the summit meeting of the Security Council here last month and the President then offered the job to Mr. Thornburgh, the officials said. 
 Although Mr. Thornburgh could not be reached for comment today, aides close to him said that he was likely to accept the position but that he wanted first to meet Mr. Ghali to discuss plans for the United Nations and establish a good working relationship.
 
One of 8 New Positions
 The new post, Under Secretary General for Administration and Management, involves overall responsibility for budget and personnel matters and is one of eight deputy positions created by Mr. Ghali in the restructuring of the Secretariat announced on Friday.
The Bush Administration has strongly supported the reorganization, which consolidated a number of smaller departments into eight major divisions, each headed by an Under Secretary General reporting directly to the Secretary General.
The United States had also made clear that it wanted an American to take the top financial and management post since Washington is the single largest contributor to the United Nations, paying 25 percent of its $1.2 billion annual budget, and is now committed to holding spending steady in real terms after allowance for inflation.
If Mr. Thornburgh accepts the job, he will become one of only two outsiders in the second rung of the United Nations hierarchy. The other is Vladimir F. Petrovsky, a former First Deputy Foreign Minister of the defunct Soviet Union, who will become one of two new Under Secretaries General for Political Affairs responsible for mediating in conflicts around the world.
 
In Private Law Practice
 After a somewhat fractious three-year stewardship of the Justice Department, Mr. Thornburgh, who is 60 years old, resigned as Attorney General in August to contest the Senate seat vacated by the death of Senator John Heinz 3d.
Although initially favored to recapture the seat for the Republicans, Mr. Thornburgh was unexpectedly defeated by Harris Wofford, a former Labor Secretary for the state of Pennsylvania, where Mr. Thornburgh served twice as Governor. Since then Mr. Thornburgh has resumed private law practice in Pittsburgh and Washington. But in December Mr. Thornburgh was reported meeting with Mr. Bush and the White House chief of staff, Samuel K. Skinner, to discuss his hopes of returning to public life.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES BUDGETS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; THORNBURGH, DICK; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GHALI, BOUTROS (SEC GEN) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



388 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Fiery Nationalism Drove Venezuelan Plotters

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Feb. 10

 BODY:
A violently nationalist ideology inspired army officers who mounted an unsuccessful coup last week and came close to killing the President of Venezuela, the second-largest net supplier of oil to the United States after Saudi Arabia.
According to documents made available here, the officers drew on writings by 19th-century Venezuelan military leaders to advocate redeeming the "lost" 20th century by wiping away "the so-called democratic experiment." 
 A "national salvation government" also would have jettisoned orthodox free-market economic policies that currently prevail in Venezuela, which is endowed with the largest oil reserves in South America.
The price of these "deep changes" would be fire and blood, the plotters warned. A 12-page manifesto opened with a quote attributed to Thomas Jefferson that "the tree of liberty should be irrigated from time to time with the blood of patriots and tyrants."
Pamphlets by the officers' group, "Los Bolivarianos," -- named after Simon Bolivar, the liberator of Venezuela from Spanish rule -- proposed hanging civilian politicians in public squares or executing them by firing squads in sports stadiums, according to a recently retired Commander in Chief of the Army, Carlos Julio Penaloza Zambrano.
"The level of hate especially caught my attention," General Penaloza said last week in a television interview before censorship ended public discussion here of the movement. "They were convinced that the only way to wash the honor of the humiliated fatherland was through a ritual bath using the blood of corrupt men who had put our nation on its knees. Chavez Frias was our Saddam Hussein."
Army Lieut. Col. Hugo Chavez Frias, the coup's mastermind, told army interrogators last week that his movement's intention was to select "an honor tribunal" that would try President Carlos Andres Perez and have him executed by a firing squad.
The 69-year-old President, who reportedly asked for a machine gun to defend himself during last Tuesday's predawn palace attack, has maintained that the plotters intended to kill him in the palace. His wife, Blanca Rodriguez de Perez, says the attackers wanted to wipe out the family.
She said the rebels continued to fire machine guns and mortars at the presidential residence for hours after the President had appeared live on national television from a studio across town.
Twelve army battalions in four major cities -- roughly 10 percent of the army -- participated in the revolt.
Interrogations of the 176 army officers detained have revealed an ultranationalist streak as the primary cause for the uprising. Leading the list were border issues: statements by President Perez that Colombia has "small rights" over the Gulf of Venezuela, the invasion of Venezuela's Amazon by Brazilian gold miners and the donation by Mr. Perez of police equipment to Guyana, a neighboring country with a large territorial dispute with Venezuela.
The mutinous officers, most in their 20's and 30's, also complained of unpunished cases of corruption involving military and political leaders, of privatization of state companies and of the withdrawal of subsidies for food and medicines.
In addition to denouncing economic "shock policies" implemented by "savage hands," the young officers' manifesto proposed that Venezuela adopt an obscure new ideology -- the "EBR System."
Apparently drawn up by Colonel Chavez and by colleagues who served with him as history instructors at Venezuela's military academy, the system's initials stand for three prominent 19th-century Venezuelans -- Ezequiel Zamora, a populist general; Bolivar, a general who liberated most of the Andes from Spanish colonial rule, and Simon Rodriguez, a teacher of Bolivar in late 18th-century Caracas.
The manifesto called for the creation of a vaguely defined "different political model" that would break with imported models and that would provide for "individual and collective human necessities."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); GUYANA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VENEZUELA VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); GUYANA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES COUPS (91%); ARMIES (91%); ASSASSINATION (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (66%); CENSORSHIP (65%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; PEREZ, CARLOS ANDRES (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



389 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
DINKINS PUSHES MINORITY CONTRACTS
Asserting that the time had come to correct decades of rampant discrimination in the city's procurement process, Mayor Dinkins announced a sweeping policy initiative to award more than 20 percent of the city's contracts to businesses owned by minorities and women. A1.
 
ARREST IN CROWN HEIGHTS KILLING
A 23-year-old unemployed handyman who the police said might have offered to do odd jobs so he could case houses he wanted to burglarize was charged yesterday in the stabbing death of a Hasidic woman in Crown Heights. The killing had pushed the troubled Brooklyn neighborhood to the brink of another racial confrontation. A1.
 
LIFE AND ART
The National Gallery of Art has liberated Herbert and Dorothy Vogel's one-bedroom Manhattan apartment from their collection of 2,500 sculptures, drawings and paintings. But the retired postal clerk and the retired librarian are still doing what they have done for 30 years -- devoting their lives to contemporary art. A1.
 
50 HOMELESS AFTER GAS BLAST
A natural gas explosion rocked and heavily damaged a problem-plagued Harlem apartment building, touching off a raging fire that drove hundreds of tenants into the cold, injured 23 people, one critically, and left more than 50 people homeless. B3.
 
A SEA OF ILLEGAL GUNS
The only thing unusual about the gun that the police say killed Ruth Mitchell in Coney Island on Saturday is that it was a rifle in a sea of illegal handguns. The rest of its story is told with increasing frequency these days as drugs and guns continue to ravage poor and working-class neighborhoods. B3.
 
2 woman found slain in Brooklyn apartment. B2.
Fernandez joins the battle for M.A.C. funds. B3.
Woman gets 7 1/2 to 15 years for fatal beating of son. B3.
Band shell in Central Park gets reprieve. B4.
 
REGION
 
TWO VIEWS OF TEANECK CASE
The jury in the manslaughter trial of a white Teaneck police officer accused of killing a black teen-ager heard sharply contradictory closing arguments about the events surrounding the shooting and the officer's motives for firing. The defense lawyer contended that the officer, Gary Spath, was threatened by the 16-year-old youth, Phillip Pannell, who had reached into a pocket containing a handgun. But the prosecutor argued that Mr. Pannell was attempting to surrender when he was shot and that Officer Spath and his partner had concocted a story to justify the shooting. B6.
 
MONEY AND MELODRAMA
This time, the volunteer firefighters and laid-off probation officers starred in the Nassau County budget melodrama. The firefighters, 1,000 strong, paraded past the County Executive Building in more than 100 polished red and lemon fire trucks, blaring horns and sirens, to protest county cuts in training programs, inspectors, and investigators. Inside, the probation officers sat in glum silence, as an officer due to be laid off after eight years on the job tried to turn in his gold shield in protest. B6.
 
Our Towns B6
Neediest Cases B6

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (56%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (56%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS PAINTING (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PROBATION (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (87%); FIREARMS (86%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (83%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); LIBRARIANS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); HOMELESSNESS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); MANSLAUGHTER (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); LAWYERS (72%); BURGLARY (71%); ADOLESCENTS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (67%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (67%); JURY TRIALS (66%); BUDGETS (62%); VOLUNTEERS (60%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (57%); RELIGION (55%); 

PERSON: PHILLIP PANNELL (69%); GARY SPATH (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



390 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: Fort Lauderdale Rides New Wave

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.

 BODY:
Next month, hundreds of thousands of college students will besiege sandy shores and snowy slopes around the country to celebrate the rites of spring. But just a handful will head for this beach resort, which for 35 years was the spring-break capital of the world.
That is just fine with local officials and most business owners, who say they could not be happier, even though it means the loss of $140 million generated by spring break. 
 "You can get so addicted to that kind of money that you never ask at what cost," said Nicki E. Grossman, a commissioner of Broward County, which includes Fort Lauderdale.
 
Community's Frayed Nerves
 But the city was finally forced to ask that question when a record 350,000 young people streamed in in 1985. They disrupted traffic and overburdened the legal system, with mostly petty crimes, to such a degree that newspapers and television stations around the country took unfavorable notice. Needless to say, the situation also frayed this community's collective nerves.
"Fort Lauderdale had gridlock, beachlock and kidlock," said Richard D. Weaver, president of the Greater Fort Lauderdale Convention and Visitors Bureau.
When the six-week blitz ended in April, the police chief gave his officers T-shirts declaring, "We Survived Spring Break." Only one-third of the crowd was college students, he said, the rest being "everything from high school students to bikers."
"That's when we decided we couldn't afford it anymore," said Ms. Grossman, who is also chairman of the Broward County Tourism Development Council. "We pulled back the welcome mat on spring break, and since then we have gone after families and European visitors."
That decision proved costly to many hotels and shops that catered to the college crowd, but the gamble appears to be paying off.
Each week, 195 flights from Stockholm, Copenhagen, Amsterdam and Frankfurt land at the Fort Lauderdale/Hollywood International Airport, loaded with tourists who find it cheaper to vacation here than in Europe. Foreigners now account for nearly 20 percent of Greater Fort Lauderdale's visitors, up from about 10 percent in 1985. Moreover, many of the visitors from overseas, as opposed to those who come from Canada and Mexico, vacation here in the summer, when most Americans seek a more temperate clime.
Last year, some 4.9 million visitors to the area spent $3.2 billion, compared with 3.3 million visitors in 1985 who spent $2.2 billion. That $1 billion difference narrows when the 1985 amount is adjusted to equal 1991 dollars, but even so, Fort Lauderdale is clearly ahead of where it was then. During that same period, spring-break visitors dwindled to 15,000, from 350,000.
 
New Convention Center
 Visitor and tourist revenues could rise significantly if the city's new $50 million convention center comes anywhere near to meeting expectations. The three-story, glass-fronted building is within Port Everglades, through which 2.2 million cruise ship passengers passed last year.
The convention and meeting business earned Fort Lauderdale about $212 million in 1990. But feasibility and economic impact studies conducted for Broward County in 1988 projected that the center, with 150,000 square feet of exhibition space, will eventually bring in an additional $104.3 million in annual revenues.
"When we opened last September, we had about 350 conventions booked through the year 2000," Mr. Weaver said. "Through September 1992 we will have had 12 citywide conventions and 43 short-term events. Down the road, we're looking to have about 30 citywide conventions a year."
The city is working to convince even more conventioneers and tourists that Fort Lauderdale is no longer synonymous with spring break. The city recently opened sales offices in Washington, London, Toronto and Stockholm, and it plans one in Frankfurt. In the last year, Fort Lauderdale has paid the way for 2,500 British travel agents and tour operators to come see for themselves that Fort Lauderdale no longer resembles the setting of the Glendon Swarthout novel "Where the Boys Are."
The book was made into a 1960 motion picture with Connie Francis, George Hamilton and Yvette Mimieux, giving Fort Lauderdale even wider exposure.
Mr. Swarthout and his wife, Kate, visited Fort Lauderdale last December, for a 50th wedding anniversary cruise to San Francisco via the Panama Canal. "I hadn't been there since the mid-1960's," said Mr. Swarthout, who lives in Arizona. "It seemed a lot more sedate. The bubbles have gone out of it."
That judgment seems unlikely to disturb the city's leaders, who made a strong effort to distance Fort Lauderdale from spring break. They ended their ads in college newspapers inviting students. They erected a five-foot high wall along Highway A1A, the coastal thoroughfare, partly to control traffic but also, some say, to serve as both a physical and psychological barrier. And they directed the police to enforce an ordinance that prohibited beer drinking on streets and beaches.
In 1986, 750 visitors during student break were charged with offenses largely related to drinking, and the next year about 2,000 were arrested. That tough new attitude gave rise to the slogan, "Come on vacation, leave on probation."
In 1991 and 1992, the city is spending $20 million to revitalize the beachfront's roads and sidewalks.
Not everyone is overjoyed at the change. "I did 50 percent of my annual gross income in that six-week period," said Roger Handevidt, the owner of the Orton Terrace, a 15-unit hotel three blocks from the beach. "Today you probably have more foreclosures than at anytime in the 12 years I've been here."
While Mr. Handevidt found the students who stayed at his hotel "rowdy, but not necessarily destructive," he acknowledged that some hotels suffered from student vandalism. He also said the number of women students began declining sharply in the mid-1980's as the number of drunken male teen-agers increased.
 
Rolling With the Changes
 At the Elbo Room, a popular beachfront bar that was featured in the movie "Where the Boys Are," business has also slipped since the old days. "There's been a gradual dwindling since 1985," said John Foose, its manager. "But we've kind of rolled with the changes -- from a wild and crazy bar to one that's kind of tame, with a lot of European customers."
The students who still come here for spring break, city officials say, tend to be couples eager to avoid their less-inhibited peers.
At the Surf Shop, a T-shirt shop facing the beach, Benjamin McNiff, an employee, said the transformation had been relatively painless. In the past, he said, "the students would rather spend 7 to 10 bucks on beer than on T-shirts." He continued: "Or else 12 would come in and 10 would rip you off. Now, families spend $50 to $100."
Peter and Dagmar Neufeldt, who own the Banyan Marina Apartments, about a mile from the beach, also like the city's about-face.
"We wouldn't have allowed kids here," Mr. Neufeldt said. "They'd have ruined it." While there is a widespread perception that students spent money only on beer and hamburgers, a survey by the Broward County Tourist Development Council found that in 1985, the average visitor stayed an average of 7.4 days and spent an average of $54.05 a day. Today, the average visitor stays 9.2 days and spends $71.41 a day.
 
Gain for Daytona Beach
 Many students now spend spring break in places like the Gulf Coast of Texas; the Caribbean; Cancun, Mexico, and Baja California, as well as skiing meccas like Aspen and Vail, Colo. But the new capital of spring break is Daytona Beach, Fla., more than 200 miles north of Fort Lauderdale.
"When Fort Lauderdale lowered the boom on spring break, we realized what a tremendous asset it could be to have the future leaders of America at our door," said Suzanne Smith, a vice president with the Daytona Beach Chamber of Commerce.
Last year, some 400,000 students went to Daytona Beach for spring break.

GRAPHIC: Photos: After a record number of young visitors distrupted Fort Lauderdale, Fla., during spring break in 1985, city authorities decided to pull in the welcome mat for students and focus tourism marketing efforts more on families and foreigners. Route A1A, the city's main beachfront street, and the beach were clogged with young people in mid-March 1985. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times) (pg. D1); Business has slipped at the Elbo Room, the popular Fort Lauderdale bar featured in the 1960 movie "Where the Boys Are." (Photograph by Susan Greenwood for The New York Times) (pg. D5)
 
Graphs: "Where Fewer Boys Are" shows the number of visitors to Fort Lauderdale during spring break from '85-'91; and the amount of dollars spent by visitors from '85-'91. (Source: Greater Fort Lauderdale Convention and Visitors Bureau) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (72%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (99%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (99%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FORT LAUDERDALE (FLA) UNITED STATES (99%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (72%); FLORIDA, USA (99%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (99%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BEACHES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (89%); TOURISM (88%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (87%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); RESORTS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); MISDEMEANORS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); AIRPORTS (62%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



391 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: United Air Cuts Back Spending

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
In the face of persistent recession, United Airlines took a big step back from an ambitious expansion strategy yesterday, announcing that it was cutting its capital spending by $6.7 billion over the next three years and postponing the delivery of new aircraft.
The airline, one of the nation's strongest, had sought to keep its expansion drive going in spite of hard times, but continuing poor traffic and heavy fare discounting forced it to pull back. 
 Both business and leisure travel have been low, showing only a small recovery from the disastrous levels of last year, when fear of terrorists during the Persian Gulf war caused many companies to eliminate international travel altogether and other travelers to stay close to home.
 
 
Delaying Boeing Orders
 The airline said it was putting off the delivery of 44 Boeing 737's and 60 Boeing 757's. The news pushed the stock of the Boeing Company down $1.375, to $48, in trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The UAL Corporation, United's parent company, slipped 87.5 cents, to $144.25.
The move by United could force Boeing to make further cutbacks in its production schedules. The Seattle-based airplane maker's huge backlog of orders has enabled it to ride out the recession largely unscathed so far, but it recently announced that it was cutting back on its 737 plane production to 14 a month, from 21.
Both Stephen M. Wolf, UAL's chairman, and Robert L. Crandall, the chairman of American Airlines, had been strong believers in firm expansion plans during downturns on the theory that they put a company in a good position to gain market share in a recovery.
 
Some Didn't Make It
 But the last year has been a brutal one for the industry. American has already announced a big capital spending cutback. Two carriers, Pan Am and Midway, have been forced to liquidate while two others, T.W.A. and America West, have filed for bankruptcy protection from creditors.
T.W.A.'s creditors agreed to reduce the carrier's debt and the airline has a strong cash position, giving it a good chance to emerge from bankruptcy.
"Finally, airlines have gotten religion about living within their means," said Rose Ann Tortora, an airline analyst for County NatWest. "They are going to pay a little more of their own way." During the 1980's, the airline industry borrowed billions to pay for huge new airplane orders.
Tassos Phillippakos, an aerospace analyst for Moody's Investors Service, said that United's move would force Boeing to make further production cutbacks and could lead to layoffs.
He added, however, that the level of new orders was still high and that compared with the 1980's the delivery rate was still higher, even with the stretch-out of new deliveries.
T. Craig Martin, a spokesman for the Boeing Commercial Airplane Group, said that no United order or options "have been canceled." He said that both United and Boeing had agreed to have orders and options put off to later years.
 
Held on for a While
 Mr. Wolf, chairman of UAL, had sought to keep United on its aggressive expansion for a time even after American pulled back last year by cutting capital expansion by $8 billion and stretching out the delivery of many of its new aircraft.
He held firm for a while. At the end of January, however, United reported a loss of $252.6 million for the fourth quarter, compared with a loss of $123.5 million in the fourth quarter last year.
The cut yesterday, which will bring a drop in capital spending by about 35 percent, to $12.2 billion, brought United's pullback close to the size of American's.
United said it would take delivery of 156 airplanes during 1993 to 1995, 122 less than originally planned. It added that it would take delivery of the 66 aircraft it was committed to in 1992.
It will also continue to take delivery of wide-bodied aircraft, since it has acquired major new routes to Europe and Latin America.
Ms. Tortora said that the strategy in putting off delivery of planes would allow the airline to lease new planes for low payments. Leasing companies are taking delivery of about 250 new airplanes a year, she said, and only about 30 percent of these have been leased.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (94%); BAB (BRU) (94%); BA (NYSE) (94%); UAL (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (94%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIRLINES INC; BOEING CO BOEING CO (94%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (61%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES INC; BOEING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; 737 AIRPLANE; 757 AIRPLANE; CAPITAL INVESTMENT AIRLINES (92%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); NEW ORDERS (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (85%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); LEISURE TRAVEL (70%); DESERT STORM (70%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (68%); RELIGION (64%); TERRORISM (55%); MARKET SHARE (50%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS STEPHEN M WOLF (54%); ROBERT L CRANDALL (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



392 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Secession Fever Strikes Queens

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

 BODY:
They just want an even break, they say in Queens -- cleaner streets, a little respect, the old fire brigade back, that idyllic time when "the city" with all its pleasures and problems meant Manhattan, across the river, and Queens was a semisuburban refuge a short subway ride away.
So when three Queens lawmakers introduced legislation in Albany last week proposing that Queens follow the path of Staten Island and consider secession from New York City, they touched a chord among residents suspicious that their borough gets second-class treatment. 
 "We're not getting much here from the city so we might as well be our own city," said Phil Melito of Richmond Hill, who grumps that he and his wife, Joan, have lived in Queens "40 years, so we've seen a lot of changes -- for the worse."
With a sovereign Queens, he says, "We could have a cleaner city. It looks pretty bad the way it is now."
Never mind that the secession bill has virtually no chance of passage.
Never mind that Queens actually has more political power these days than any time in recent memory -- in the persons of the new Assembly Speaker, Saul Weprin, and the City Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone. Gov. Mario M. Cuomo is a son of Queens, too.
And never mind that no one -- neither the bill's sponsors nor city planners -- can say if Queens is really getting its fair share of city services, or even if it has the wherewithal to go it alone.
In proposing secession, the three lawmakers -- Assemblyman Anthony S. Seminerio, a Democrat, and Republican Senators Serphin R. Maltese and Frank Padavan -- are drawing on a sense of being put upon that has become a virtual mode of politics and language of resentment in the boroughs outside Manhattan.
Queens, a borough of nearly two million people, has been nursing a special grudge against City Hall and Manhattan politicians at least since the blizzard of 1969, when Mayor John V. Lindsay left the suburban-style neighborhoods of northeastern Queens sitting for days under a blanket of snow.
Now, the recession, the city's budget crisis and a fear of new assaults on the quality of life have only deepened a feeling of powerlessness among the hard-pressed, middle- and working-class communities that are already struggling to maintain their neighborhood identities during a period of new immigration and racial transition.
The secession drive comes at a time when a proposal to eliminate a fire battalion in Brooklyn, or to transfer a favorite assistant principal from Queens to Manhattan, can feel like the death blow to a neighborhood, a time when the Mayor's proposal to scatter 24 homeless shelters around the city -- including up to 11 in Queens -- can fuel rebellion.
 
Empathy in Brooklyn
 "I think it's come up again because of the mayor's homeless plan," Borough President Claire Shulman of Queens said. "It kind of exacerbated again the talk of secession."
Feeling pushed to the wall, some Queens activists think their borough might just be better off on its own.
"We can't say to the South Bronx we want to take half your medical services and half your poverty programs," said Arlene R. Pedone, president of the Richmond Hill Block Association. "They need it. But because the pie was cut, it's the have-nots fighting the have-nots. If you have your own city -- if you start from the beginning to build your services and see what your population needs -- there is less fighting for the small piece of the pie."
Borough President Howard Golden of Brooklyn says: "I'm not one of those who says Manhattan shouldn't be part of the union. But to call us 'outer boroughs' is a disgrace."
Assemblyman Seminerio speaks the same language. "They treat us just like we're an outer borough. We're nonexistent," he said several days after introducing the secession measure, which would allow Queens residents to vote on whether to create a charter commission to draw up plans for a separate city.
"My people in Queens, and I believe all the people in Queens, are intelligent enough to vote on whether they want it or not," he said. So, for that matter, could Brooklyn, as far as he's concerned. Or even Manhattan. "So we'll have five cities. What's the big deal?" he asked.
Other Queens leaders are more cautious about whether the borough has the tax base to offer the current level of services without raising taxes.
"Could we go it alone? I don't know the answer," said Borough President Shulman, who said she was ambivalent about the bill. "We'd have to investigate very carefully. The last thing in the world you'd want to do is raise taxes to where it becomes a burden to the individual citizen."
According to figures compiled by the city Department of Finance, Queens in the 1991-92 fiscal year accounted for 16 percent of the city's property taxes.
But she added, "As a government person who has to deliver services on a local level, it's an attractive concept."
Speaker Weprin, who is from Hollis, is leaning against the bill. His spokesman, Steven A. Greenberg, said the Assemblyman is concerned about the borough's ability to go it alone. "He's not sure of any benefits to the borough of Queens from these actions."
The Queens secession bill has been introduced at a time when the political clout of the borough has never been stronger.
 
The Unisphere as Mecca
 "What's precipitated it is not a lack of power but a lack of finances," said City Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone, Democrat of Astoria, who said he opposed the move. "It would be terrible. You might as well forget the city of New York."
Governor Cuomo, a native son of Holliswood, has predicted that the measure will never get to his desk.
But for a few moments this week, the idea of secession, of becoming a city that would dwarf a place like Detroit, caught people's whimsy.
"Maybe it would bring more business to Queens if we were separate," said Diane F. Engberg, a 43-year-old Richmond Hills housewife, bundled in coat and scarf as she dashed across Jamaica Avenue. "We have Flushing Meadows and the Unisphere," she said, warming to the idea that Queens could even be a tourists' mecca.
Alma Young of Laurelton saw secession as a way to stop immigration from Manhattan. If Queens were to separate, she said, "I hope it would stay the way it is: semi-city, semi-country."
If Queens were no longer part of the Big Apple, then what would it be? "The little apple?" ventured the Queens Borough President.
Ann Ferrara, a guest service agent at the Sheraton La Guardia East, and perhaps not entirely objective since she has moved from Queens to Brooklyn, called the whole idea absurd.
"Why bother?" she said. "There are too many other things to be concerned with. There's just no need for it at all. It's like saying we're going to paint all the buildings blue."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; QUEENS (NYC); NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SECESSION; PUBLIC OPINION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BLACKS (IN US); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (72%); SUBURBS (70%); BUDGETS (66%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



393 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Con Ed Nears Rate Increase In 3-Year Plan

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
After nine years of electricity price freezes and even a cut, Consolidated Edison and the staff of the New York Public Service Commission have reached an agreement that would, if approved by the commission, give the utility a 19.8 percent rate increase over the next three years.
But the Consumer Protection Board, which by law represents consumer interests before the Public Service Commission, argues that three-year deals are inherently unfair to customers, and that for several reasons, the increase should be smaller. 
 After an administrative law judge holds public hearings on the agreement, he will submit a recommendation to the seven-member commission.
Under the agreement, according to Con Ed, the first-year increase would raise the monthly bill of a typical residential customer to $41.02 from $38.82. A Con Ed spokesman pointed out that the figure would still be lower than in 1983, when, with fuel adjustment clauses, it was $42.28. At the end of the three-year period, the price would be $48.10. Residential customers consume about one-third of the power; most of the rest of the use is commercial.
 
Previous Backing From Board
 The Consumer Protection Board had enthusiastically backed the three multiyear agreements that have governed rates since 1983, but Richard M. Kessel, executive director of the board, said yesterday that "when they were freezing rates, there was nothing to object to."
Mr. Kessel also said yesterday that rates may be rising so steeply because Con Edison has spent so much money trying to save energy, and that its conservation and efficiency program should be re-evaluated to insure that it is cost-effective. For years, consumer advocates have been urging the company to do more.
Dan Walden, a spokesman for Con Edison, said the company needed an increase "because the underlying economics of the industry have changed." Con Ed began the 1980's with a huge amount of surplus-generating capacity because in the 70's it overestimated the growth of demand, and built too many generating stations.
As growing demand erodes the surplus, he said, the utility could spread its rising costs across more and more kilowatt hours sold. But now, he said, the company cannot continue to sell more kilowatt hours without buying them from somewhere. To keep customers supplied, it is buying more power from independent producers. These costs are the biggest part of the increase request, Mr. Walden said.
In an agreement dated Jan. 24, the company and the commission's staff called for an increase of $225 million to take effect on April 1, followed by $400 million the next April 1 and $300 million the April 1 after that. The increases would be 4.8 percent, 8 percent at 5.5 percent, for a compound total of 19.8 percent.
New York, like other states, has moved toward setting rates every three years instead of annually. The Public Service Commission recently granted a three-year package to the Brooklyn Union Gas Company, and is considering a three-year package for the Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation.
 
Settlement Clauses
 At the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners, a Washington-based organization made up of public service commission members from around the country, Michael Foley, an electric utility expert, said multiyear agreements were generally viewed as "a good bargain for all concerned" because regulators could scrutinize each request more closely, customers could predict their rates, and utilities could predict their revenue.
The traditional system in New York is for a company to submit a rate request every year, and lawyers for the company and the state then spend 11 months in hearings and negotiations.
Peter A. Bradford, the chairman of the commission, said that he could not talk about the Con Ed case, but that the commission would not be able to handle all cases well if each of the seven major electric companies, the gas companies and the telephone companies asked for a rate increase every year. He added that the multiyear agreements had clauses to reopen the cases "if anything has gotten significantly out of line with the assumptions made at the time of the settlement."
But Mr. Kessel is arguing that in a recession, it makes no sense to announce a billion-dollar electricity price increase because it "sends the wrong signal" to businesses and consumers. "If the Mayor proposed a billion-dollar tax increase, people would freak," he said in an interview.
But reaching such an agreement during a recession involves a bet that could go sour for either side, he acknowledged, with the utility agreeing on a rate of return on equity that could seem paltry by the standards that might apply during an economic boom, if such a boom is realized during the term of the agreement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NY INC; CONSUMER PROTECTION BOARD (NYS); PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (NYS) CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NY INC; CONSUMER PROTECTION BOARD (NYS); PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (NYS) NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; RATES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); UTILITY RATES (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ELECTRICITY GENERATING CAPACITY (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); LITIGATION (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); JUDGES (70%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



394 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Holiday Tomorrow

 BODY:
Tomorrow is Lincoln's Birthday. Here are holiday schedules.
 
NEW YORK
 
GOVERNMENT OFFICES: Federal and state open, city closed.
POST OFFICES: Regular service.
BANKS: Option to close.
PARKING: Alternate-side rules suspended.
SANITATION: No pickups, street cleaning or recycling.
SCHOOLS: Open.
FINANCIAL MARKETS: Open.
TRANSPORTATION: Buses, subways, Long Island Rail Road and Metro-North on regular schedules.
 
NEW JERSEY
 
GOVERNMENT OFFICES: Federal open, state closed, local option to close.
POST OFFICES: Regular service.
BANKS: Option to close.
SCHOOLS: Local option.
TRANSPORTATION: N.J. Transit on regular schedules.
 
CONNECTICUT
 
GOVERNMENT OFFICES: Federal open, state closed except for unemployment offices, local option to close.
POST OFFICES: Regular service.
BANKS: Closed.
SCHOOLS: Closed.
TRANSPORTATION: New Haven Line on regular schedule.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (57%); NJ TRANSIT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS AND SPECIAL OCCASIONS HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (87%); 

PERSON: LINCOLN, ABRAHAM (1809-65)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



395 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Times Has Gain in Quarter But Profit Drop for the Year

 BODY:
The New York Times Company reported a sharp rise in fourth-quarter earnings yesterday but said that for all of 1991 its profits were down, as the recession continued to cut into advertising revenue.
The results included various one-time adjustments, including costs linked to a staff reduction and interest expenses on a new printing plant, without which earnings would have risen for the year. 
 Analysts said the numbers masked some improving trends. "The earnings were pretty much in line with expectations," said Kevin R. Gruneich, an investment analyst with the First Boston Corporation. "The guts of the numbers actually look quite good. The fact that operating earnings increased while revenues remained the same shows the impact of cost controls."
 
Results for the Quarter
 The company reported fourth-quarter earnings of $34.6 million, or 45 cents a share, on revenues of $452.5 million, more than doubling from the $12.2 million, or 16 cents a share, on revenues of $456 million in the period a year earlier.
For the year, the company said it earned $47 million, or 61 cents a share, on revenues of $1.7 billion, down 27.5 percent from the $64.8 million, or 85 cents a share, on revenues of $1.78 billion in 1990.
"We are particularly pleased to see some improving trends," said Michael A. Kupinski, an analyst with A. G. Edwards in St. Louis. Mr. Kupinski noted an improvement in the performance of the magazine group and said the declines in classified advertising were less than he had first estimated.
The company's results were affected by several one-time adjustments: a 13-cents-a-share gain from a reversal of an accounting provision relating to Federal taxes, a 15-cents-a-share charge to cover severance costs under a voluntary staff reduction, a 20-cents-a-share charge related to magazine acquisitions and a 14-cents-a-share charge for a change relating to interest expenses at The New York Times's Edison, N.J., printing plant.
Without these adjustments, 1991 earnings would have been 97 cents a share and quarterly earnings 41 cents, the company said.
 
Ad Linage Drops
 For the year, advertising linage at The New York Times was 78.6 million lines, a 15.5 percent decline from the year earlier. For the fourth quarter, advertising linage dropped by 8.8 percent, to 22.1 million lines. The company said that help wanted and real estate advertising were hurt the most.
Operating earnings for the year for the newspaper group, which comprises The New York Times, 32 regional newspapers and a half interest in The International Herald Tribune, were $113.6 million, excluding the $20 million pretax charge for severance costs, on revenues of $1.27 billion. This compared with 1990 operating earnings of $140.3 million on revenues of $1.36 billion.
In the fourth quarter, the newspaper group had operating profits of $49.2 million on revenues of $345.7 million, compared with operating profits of $32.1 million on revenues of $350.1 million in the 1990 quarter. The quarter's improvement resulted from higher circulation revenues, lower newsprint costs and lower expenses, the company said.
The company said it was unclear whether there would be additional charges against earnings in 1992 connected with the planned opening of the Edison plant. An agreement in principle has been reached with the union representing The Times's drivers, and arbitration with the mailers' union continues, the company said.
If the contracts are settled by binding arbitration rather than negotiation, the company said, using the remainder of a 1989 reserve of about $25 million "will not be required."
Magazine group operating profit was $1.4 million for the quarter. For the year, the group had an operating loss of $492,000. The fourth-quarter operating profit for the broadcasting/ information services group was $4.8 million, compared with $4.7 million a year earlier.
On the American Stock Exchange, the company's shares rose 25 cents, to $28.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (98%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES NEW YORK TIMES CO (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (60%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL A KUPINSKI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



396 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond and Note Prices Are Mixed

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds were mixed in slow trading yesterday, as dealers continued preparations for three days of quarterly refunding auctions, beginning with the sale today of $15 billion of new three-year Treasury notes.
Traders said there was light selling by dealers of 10-year and 30-year securities to make way for the $21 billion worth of new long-term notes and bonds to be sold later in the week. 
 Expectations remained high that the Federal Reserve Board will soon ease monetary policy again and were reflected at yesterday's auction of new three- and six-month Treasury bills, which were sold at the lowest rates in nearly 20 years.
 
'Concerned About Confidence'
 Nevertheless, in its Open Market operations yesterday, the Fed sent another clear signal to market participants that it had not decided to lower its target on the overnight rate for bank loans in the Federal funds market below its current level of 4 percent.
"The Fed made it very clear," one government securities trader said. "Based on our reading of the minutes from the last Open Market Committee meeting, our sense is that they are extremely concerned about confidence and will be watching the consumer confidence number closely when it comes out on Thursday."
The minutes from the committee's December meeting showed that most of the Fed governors favored a move away from the gradualist approach the central bank had been employing in favor of something more drastic. The minutes show that policy makers were hoping the big rate cuts they announced on Dec. 20 would have a positive impact on consumer confidence.
To date, the lift the Fed was hoping for has not arrived.
The chances of another reduction in short-term rates were seen as greater after the Labor Department issued a grim report on Friday on employment conditions in January.
The report showed declines in overall payroll employment, the length of the average workweek and the amount of average hourly earnings. Analysts said it was only the third time since 1947 that all three measures fell in a single month.
"These numbers are not going to do much to help consumer confidence," said Paul W. Boltz, chief financial economist at T. Rowe Price Associates in Baltimore.
Mr. Boltz said the report caused him to lower his estimates for overall economic growth in the first half of the year to an anemic seven-tenths of 1 percent from 1.5 percent. The odds that output will actually decline in the first quarter are "about 50-50," he said.
 
Short-Term Rates Drop
 At yesterday's bill auctions, the three-month bills were sold at an average discount rate of 3.72 percent, down from an average rate of 3.86 percent at last week's sale. It was the lowest rate since the auction on May 15, 1972, when the rate was 3.699 percent.
Bids on the six-month bills produced an average discount rate of 3.80 percent, compared with 3.93 percent at the auction a week ago. The rate was the lowest on a six-month bill since they averaged 3.796 percent at the auction on March 6, 1972.
Analysts and traders said demand for the bills was good, but they added that the auction was no preview for how the refunding issues would be received. An easing of monetary policy by the Fed would have limited impact on securities with maturities of more than two years, they said.
In when-issued trading late yesterday, the three-year notes to be sold today were offered at a price to yield 5.43 percent. The 10-year notes to be sold tomorrow were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 7.20 percent. And the 30-year bonds that will be auctioned on Thursday were trading at a price to yield 7.79 percent.
"The overall bullish fundamental outlook, underscored by the weak employment report, makes the bond look cheap at yields higher than 7.75 percent," analysts at MMS International, an economic information and service company, said in their daily market commentary.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered at a price of 102 1/2 late yesterday, down 10/32 , to yield 7.78 percent, compared with 7.75 percent late on Friday.
Among outstanding Treasury note issues, the 6 3/8 percent seven-year notes were offered at 9729/32 , up 2/32 , to yield 6.75 percent. And the 4 7/8 percent two-year notes were offered at 9930/32 , unchanged on the day, to yield 4.90 percent.
 
Corporate Issues
 New issuers in the investment-grade corporate bond market included KFW International Finance Inc., which offered $200 million worth of securities through an underwriting group led by Morgan Stanley & Company.
The 7 5/8 percent notes, which mature on Feb. 10, 2004, were priced at $99.34 to yield 7.71 percent, 50 basis points, or half a percentage point, above the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 7.50 percent 10-year notes at the time of pricing.
The issue was rated triple-A by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
Shearson Lehman Holdings offered $200 million of seven-year securities through an underwriting group led by Lehman Brothers.
The 8 3/8 percent notes mature on Feb. 15, 1999 and were priced at $99.091 to yield 8.55 percent, 1.75 percentage points more than the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 6 3/8 percent seven-year notes at the time of pricing.
The issue was rated A-3 by Moody's and A by S.& P.
Activity in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds was slow, traders said, and prices of most issues were unchanged.
Participants in the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds told much the same story. In advance of a large volume of new issues expected to be priced this week, traders said, investors were reluctant to establish new positions.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	99.060	98.079	Discounted Rate	3.72%	3.80%	Coupon Yield	3.82%	3.94%	High Price	99.062	98.089	Discounted Rate	3.71%	3.78%	Coupon Yield	3.81%	3.92%	Low Price	99.057	98.079	Discounted Rate	3.73%	3.80%	Coupon Yield	3.83%	3.94%	Accepted at low price	24%	41%	Total applied for	$32,180,780	$31,344,175	Accepted	$10,400,955	$10,459,815	N.Y. applied for	$27,881,530	$28,272,910	N.Y. accepted	$8,291,980	$9,202,810	Noncompetitive	$1,777,250	$1,276,475	
 
Both issues are dated Feb. 13, 1992. The three-month bills mature on May 14; the six-month bills on Aug. 13.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Monthy Treasury Bills" shows the average discounted rate in percent at weekly auction from Oct. '91-Feb. '92. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TROW (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: T ROWE PRICE GROUP INC (52%); PRICES OF TREASURY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRICES OF TREASURY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); DEBT NOTES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



397 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Problems for Yen and Mark Help the Dollar to Advance

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar rose yesterday, strengthened by political uncertainty in Japan, economic problems in Germany and the failure of the Federal Reserve to ease interest rates in the United States.
Gold prices fell marginally in Asia and Europe before rebounding slightly in the United States. At the Commodity Exchange in New York, bullion for current delivery fetched $355.90, up 90 cents. The Republic National Bank in New York quoted gold at $355.40 as of 4 P.M. Eastern time, up 90 cents from Friday. 
 Foreign exchange dealers said the dollar drew some early vitality from Japan, where the governing Liberal Democratic Party lost a local election over the weekend that raised more clouds over Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa's administration. As a result, there were few buyers for yen-denominated investments.
Later in European trading, currency dealers said the dollar drew further strength from a growing belief that Germany's economic problems were intensifying and would require lower interest rates there for a revival, which would depress the value of the mark.
"People are focusing on the German reality," said Andrew Hodge, vice president of corporate treasury services at the New York branch of Bank Brussels Lambert.
The dollar gained further when the Federal Reserve, the United States' central bank, did not reduce short-term interest rates despite widespread predictions of such a move to stimulate the anemic American economy. Fed action was expected in view of unexpectedly weak employment data for January, reported Friday. Lower rates would make dollar-denominated investments worth less.
In Tokyo, the dollar fell 0.17 yen, to 125.35 yen, although that was higher than its New York finish on Friday of 125.30 yen. Later, in London the dollar was quoted at 125.65 yen. In New York the dollar ended higher, at 126.70 yen.
In London the British pound fell to $1.8280, from $1.8370 late Friday. In New York, the pound fetched $1.8190, cheaper than its $1.8370 value late on Friday.
Other late-dollar rates in New York, compared with levels late on Friday, included: 1.5770 marks, up from 1.5595; 1.4085 Swiss francs, up from 1.3910; 1.1776 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1781; 5.3775 French francs, up from 5.3150, and 1,187.50 Italian lire, up from 1,174.25.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (57%); HSB (PAR) (57%); HBC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); ASIA (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); BELGIUM (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (57%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (57%); ING BELGIUM SA/NV (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); ASIA (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); BELGIUM (73%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES; GOLD CURRENCIES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); BRITISH POUND (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); BANK BRANCHES (71%); 

PERSON: KIICHI MIYAZAWA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



398 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Some Decide To Pass Up Olympics

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THE Winter Olympics are in full swing, but many of America's largest advertisers and their agencies are sitting this one out.
While some mega-marketers are spending tens of millions of dollars to link themselves in consumers' minds to the 1992 Games in Albertville, France, companies like General Motors, Mastercard and Coors, which in the past were eager sponsors, are shunning the quadrennial spectacle. 
 "Let's take the Super Bowl and the N.B.A. All-Star Game and compare them for the next two weeks to the Olympics," Marty Blackman, the president of Blackman & Raber, a New York sports and entertainment marketing and consulting company, said yesterday.
"What competition there will equal the attention these two other events have grabbed in the United States?" he asked. "Nothing."
The primary sign that the Olympics have lost some luster was the agonizingly slow sales pace for commercial time compared with previous Olympics; CBS did not sell out its 116 hours of coverage until Friday.
But the main reason is that viewers have so many other options now. That is in stark contrast to the 1960's and 1970's, when the alternatives to watching the Olympics were reruns on two other networks and a grainy print of "Mighty Joe Young" on an independent station.
Now, viewers have a plethora of alternatives as they flip from channel to channel: cable networks like CNN, ESPN and TBS; beefed-up independent stations, and broadcast networks that rather than taking a dive offer substantial fare against the Olympics in what the television industry calls counter-programming.
For most clients, said Fred Wray, the senior vice president and media director at Foote, Cone & Belding in Chicago, "it's smarter to concentrate our efforts on other prime-time programming."
And viewers can play network programmers at home, using their VCR's and laser disk players in lieu of watching the Olympics.
All that is not to say the Olympics have lost their status as a powerful transmitter of sponsored messages. Overnight ratings in 25 leading markets on Sunday from 8 to 11 P.M., Eastern time, showed that CBS's coverage of figure skating, downhill skiing and other events drew a strong 25.0 rating and a 34 share. Each rating point represents 431,151 households, and the share is the percentage of homes with televisions in use.
That was welcome news to CBS, which spent $243 million for rights to telecast the Games and had promised advertisers an average 17 rating though Feb. 23.
The CBS showing compared with a 19.4 rating- 27 share for NBC, 12.0 rating-17 share for ABC and 9.5 rating-13 share for Fox.
CBS also released special early national ratings, which showed a 23.4 rating and a 33 share on Sunday, 19 percent above the first Sunday rating registered when ABC broadcast the 1988 Winter Olympics from Calgary, Alberta. But comparable figures for the other networks were not available. For those data, each rating point represented 921,000 homes.
And a lengthy list of more than 60 advertisers have signed to sponsor the Games, from Anheuser-Busch, Coca-Cola and Ford Motor to McDonald's, Merrill Lynch and Toyota.
Coca-Cola has agreed to become the first global sponsor of the 1994 Winter Olympics in Norway and the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta.
Even so, there are other reasons for the Olympic torch not to burn as brightly as in previous years. The most significant dampener has been the recession.
"A matter of resources" was the reason that General Motors decided to bypass the Winter Olympics, a spokesman in Detroit said, although its domestic competitors, Ford and Chrysler, are participating. Instead, he added, the auto maker will take part in the Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain.
Two other marketing giants, Burger Kingand Pepsi-Cola, are saving money by forgoing the elaborate national Olympics ad schedules of their rivals, McDonald's and Coca-Cola. Rather, both are buying commercial time on local stations' telecasts of the Games. And Mr. Wray of Foote, Cone cited what he called "the severe premium you pay" to be associated with the Olympics.
To George Schweitzer, the senior vice president of CBS marketing and communications, "the value of the Olympics as an event has not diminished." "But," he added, "the economy around it had."
So in selling commercial time, he continued, "what we ran into was an economy that forced choices between the Olympics and other things. This year, it's the Olympics instead of something else, whereas it used to be additive."
Also looming as a killjoy to American Olympics fever is the end of Communism. The collapse of the Soviet Union and its bloc of Eastern satellites has eliminated the Us-Versus-Them appeal of the games to millions of Americans.
Mr. Schweitzer said that CBS was hoping the absence of an "Evil Empire" would mean more medals for American athletes, citing the 1984 Summer Olympics in which Americans romped during a Soviet boycott.
"Research shows that the more chance Americans have to win medals," he added, "the higher the ratings."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Olympic TV Ads: Who's In and Out"
 
While many big-name U.S. marketers are investing millions in the Winter Games, others are on the sidelines.
 
Participating: Coca-Cola
Sitting this one out: Pepsi-Cola
 
Participating: Ford, Chrysler
Sitting this one out: General Motors
 
Participating: McDonald's
Sitting this one out: Burger King, Wendy's
 
Participating: Miller, Anheuser-Busch
Sitting this one out: Coors
 
Participating: American Express, Visa
Sitting this one out: Mastercard
 
Participating: Thrifty Rent-A-Car
Sitting this one out: Hertz, Avis
 
(Source: Company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); DRAFTFCB INC (53%); TAPSA AGENCIA DE PUBLICIDAD SL (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1992); ADVERTISING; WINTER GAMES (OLYMPICS) OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); SKIING (78%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); SPORTS (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (74%); ICE SKATING (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (69%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



399 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Massachusetts Program to Aid Middle-Class Home Buyers

 BODY:
In a home-mortgage program that a state official said would benefit "the forgotten middle class" and serve as a national model, Massachusetts began to offer fixed-rate mortgages last week that low-to-middle-income residents can more easily qualify to receive.
The Middle Class American Dream program, introduced by the Massachusetts official, State Treasurer Joseph D. Malone, is the first of its kind in the nation, although Connecticut and Pennsylvania have narrower programs. 
 In Massachusetts, mortgages are being made available through the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae. A group of 29 approved banks and mortgage companies is offering the mortgages to the public, and a state teachers and employees pension fund is providing $125 million to purchase securities from Fannie Mae that are backed by the mortgages. The state pension fund will earn income from its investment through Fannie Mae.
Mortgage applicants are being processed on a first-come, first-served basis, and Mr. Malone said he expected about 1,000 loans to be granted in the first phase.
 
 
Lower Down Payments
 The program provides relaxed home-mortgage qualification rules to state residents with a gross income of 135 percent, or less, of the median household income in the proposed purchase location; the income ceiling is $68,000. Under the guidelines, the down-payment requirement drops to 5 percent of the purchase price, from as much as 20 percent. State teachers and employees may be eligible to make a down payment of as little as 3 percent.
In addition, the normal requirement that payments on mortgage principal and interest not exceed 28 percent of gross household income is eased to 33 percent. Applicants are not required to provide two months of principal and interest in an escrow account, as is usually mandated. Borrowers will pay 1 1/4 points instead of the traditional 2 points when closing on the mortgage. (Each point equals a fee of 1 percent of the loan amount.)
Closing costs, like legal fees, are reduced. The interest rate is based on current market rates at the time of commitment.
Under the program's guidelines, borrowers must receive home buyer counseling from the bank or mortgage company and the home must be in Massachusetts. Borrowers need not be first-time home buyers and there is no maximum purchase-price limitation.
 Mr. Malone said the Connecticut and Pennsylvania programs were not aimed at the middle class as much as this one. In Massachusetts, first-time home buyers with incomes below $35,700 may be eligible for a tax credit, called a mortgage credit certificate, being offered by the state's Housing Finance Agency.
The response to the program has been overwhelming, Mr. Malone said. An "800" number at Fannie Mae offices given out last Tuesday brought in 17,000 phone calls, knocking out Fannie Mae's phone system and requiring that new lines be added.
"When you couple President Bush's proposal for a $5,000 tax credit with this program, it presents a great opportunity for the prospective home buyer," Mr. Malone said.
He added that the state intended to sell the mortgages in the lucrative secondary market for Fannie Mae loans, replenish the money in the program and offer another opportunity to those who could not obtain loans during the initial round.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS UNITED STATES (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); PROPERTY ESCROW (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INCOME TAX (70%); TAX LAW (65%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH D MALONE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992



400 of 1055 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Business Loan Demand Is Off

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 10

 BODY:
Demand for business loans weakened in the last three months, a Government survey said today, though residential mortgage demand grew sharply as interest rates fell to their lowest levels in nearly 20 years.
At the same time, the survey by the Federal Reserve of 60 big domestic and 18 foreign banks showed that virtually none had changed their credit standards for approving business loans since the last poll in October. 
 Many economists and businesses say tougher Government regulations have caused banks to tighten loan standards, leading to a credit shortage that has aggravated the economy's problems.
Not only did business loan applications decline, but demand for consumer installment loans also continued to weaken, though banks were showing more willingness to provide consumer credit, the survey said.
Government and private economists cite the huge buildup of debt in the 1980's as a big contributor to the continuing economic slump.
The banks that noted weaker business loan demand often cited decreases in monetary needs for inventory rebuilding and for investment in new plants and equipment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); CONSUMER LENDING (88%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1992

 
