

201 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Incumbent Snubbed by Her Party

SERIES: NEW YORK PRIMARY: 37th Assembly District

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
As she strode about the tables at the Sunnyside Senior Center in Queens on a recent morning, Assemblywoman Catherine T. Nolan was greeted by the crowd, mostly women, as though she were their favorite daughter. They asked about her 2-year-old son, they admired her necklace and they cheered lustily as she asked for their continued support.
But when Ms. Nolan was asked by one smiling woman how she was doing, the assemblywoman's own smile vanished briefly. "To tell you the truth," she answered, "I'm a little bit nervous." 
 Ms. Nolan, the eight-term incumbent assemblywoman, the chairwoman of the Assembly's Committee on Labor, and a veteran Queens politician, is facing a political challenge in Tuesday's primary in the 37th Assembly District.
Her opponent is Patrick T. O'Malley, 33, a former Queens prosecutor who placed his private law practice aside to undertake his first foray into elective politics. But Mr. O'Malley is no ordinary political neophyte. He is the brother of Martin O'Malley, the mayor of Baltimore, and he has raised a sufficient amount of money to cause Queens Democratic leaders, Ms. Nolan foremost among them, to take his candidacy seriously.
Apart from the $70,000 he has raised, Mr. O'Malley was endorsed this week in a joint appearance by a past mayor of New York City, Edward I. Koch, and the current mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani. Ms. Nolan has long had a tenuous relationship with the Democratic Party organization in Queens, which took the unusual step of declining to endorse the incumbent in this Assembly race.
Ms. Nolan, 42, has had little in the way of well-financed, competitive races since she was elected to the Assembly in 1984. "I have to take this race very seriously," she said. "I have to stress my record with regard to education, and programs that have really helped people in this community."
Mr. O'Malley, in discussing the race, said he decided to run because of what he described as the lackluster job Ms. Nolan had done in representing the district. His major complaint was that Ms. Nolan is so out of touch with her constituents that she voted in favor of repealing New York City's commuter tax for state residents who work in the city -- a position that has also made her the target of attacks by the mayor. The tax was abolished for in-state residents effective last July and for out-of-state commuters earlier this year.
Mr. O'Malley said that this deprives the city of the tax revenue from commuters who work in New York City. "That is a move that has robbed the city of $500 million each year," Mr. O'Malley said. "That's not the vote of someone who cared about this city and this community."
Ms. Nolan explained her vote on the commuter tax as being based on her view of the regional nature of the New York area economy. She further said that by voting to reduce taxes for suburban residents, legislators from New York City could call upon their suburban colleagues for cooperation. "I don't think the repeal of the commuter tax will have long-term negative consequences," Ms. Nolan said. "We have to look at ourselves as being in a regional economy."
Ms. Nolan was quick to point out other aspects of her record. A vocal abortion rights advocate, Ms. Nolan mentioned, for example, how she secured financing for several programs, including the first occupational safety and health clinic in Queens, and how she sponsored legislation to increase the minimum wage.
Ms. Nolan described her opponent as someone "who seems perfectly nice," but as a political newcomer who was prompted to run in part by the invitation of the Queens Democratic organization. Last year, Ms. Nolan incurred the wrath of the Queens Democratic Party chairman, former Representative Thomas Manton.
When Mr. Manton resigned from Congress and engineered the selection of his hand-picked successor on the ballot, Ms. Nolan was harshly critical. She broke with other Queens Democratic leaders by refusing to endorse Mr. Manton's successor, Representative Joseph Crowley. Instead, she endorsed City Councilman Walter McCaffrey, who undertook a short-lived challenge to Mr. Crowley earlier this year.
Mr. O'Malley, a member of the Anarac Democratic Club -- of which Mr. Manton is the most prominent member -- insisted that the former congressman had offered no assistance or encouragement to his campaign. "My campaign is not dependent on anyone's support," he said. Mr. Manton echoed that view, saying that he had not endorsed either candidate and that he had offered no assistance to Mr. O'Malley's insurgent race.
Indeed, Mr. O'Malley has put together a team of volunteers and a busy, if crowded campaign headquarters on the second floor of a building on Queens Boulevard. His campaign literature notes his work as a volunteer in teaching English in a village in Peru and his former job as a fifth-grade teacher in the Bronx.
On the issues, Mr. O'Malley discussed the need to obtain more state money for schools in the district. He said he favors "new educational techniques," including vouchers. On abortion rights, Mr. O'Malley said he generally opposes abortion, particularly the late-term procedure that its critics call "partial birth abortion."
The 37th Assembly District is a stretch of western Queens, including Sunnyside, Ridgewood and parts of Woodside and Long Island City. It is a mainly working-class area that still has a large Irish-American population. But the district has in recent years had a growing population of Korean and Hispanic residents.
Ms. Nolan has raised about $150,000 for the race and has years of incumbency and a network of Democratic supporters and field soldiers at her disposal. Nonetheless, she said she is taking nothing for granted.
"I'm having to get out there and work," she said, before leaving the Sunnyside center for another campaign event. "But having a race like this makes you spend time getting your message out. And, actually, that's a good thing."
 
NEW YORK PRIMARY
37th Assembly District
Articles in this series are examining individual primary contests in Congressional and local districts.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Assemblywoman Catherine Nolan, above, at The Sunnyside Senior Center. Patrick O'Malley, right, her challenger in the 37th Assembly District primary. (Photographs by Richard Lee for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: QUEENS DEMOCRATIC PARTY (93%); ASSEMBLY'S COMMITTEE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSEMBLY'S COMMITTEE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MAYORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (78%); WOMEN (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); POLITICS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); 

PERSON: MARTIN O'MALLEY (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2000



202 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN NEW YORK: THE CUBAN LEADER;
Friendly Crowd Provides Castro With a Soapbox

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG and CHRIS HEDGES

 BODY:
President Fidel Castro of Cuba stepped away from the formalities of the United Nations summit meeting and back into his familiar battle fatigues last night to address a crowd of flag-waving supporters who hung on his every blistering criticism of the world's superpowers.
"We shall be entering the 21st century, and that will happen in extremely hard conditions for the world," Mr. Castro said in a hoarse voice to about 2,400 listeners at Riverside Church in the Morningside Heights neighborhood in Manhattan. "The world is undergoing a catastrophic situation. Don't believe the experts who feign optimism and ignore the cruel realities of the developing world." 
 Mr. Castro called the United States' economic sanctions against Cuba a "criminal embargo" and "a violation of human rights."
He arrived shortly after 9 p.m., an hour later than scheduled, and began his speech around 10 p.m. Dressed in his signature olive military uniform, he strode confidently to the lectern, surrounded by guards in dark suits. Cheers and screams rose to the dark heights of the church, and hundreds of arms fervently waved Cuban flags. In some ways, the scene echoed the mass rallies that took place in the streets of Havana during the international struggle over Elian Gonzalez last spring.
In his lengthy lecture, Mr. Castro decried the globalization of economic markets and criticized what he called a lack of effort by wealthy nations to battle disease in poorer countries. He pointed to the doctors that Cuba has sent to developing nations like Angola, and said Cuba is ready to offer inexpensive medical training to 250 Americans each year, as long as they return to the United States to practice in poor areas.
Citing a series of figures that show a decline in living standards in much of the world, he said, "As time passes, the rich nations become richer, and the contribution they make to the huge numbers of poor decreases."
The organizers of the event called it "an evening of solidarity with the Cuban people." Those political sympathies were worn on sleeves, collars and T-shirts, as pins of the Cuban flag and of Che Guevara, the guerrilla leader who became a symbol of the Communist revolution, abounded. Outside the church, dozens of protesters waved placards and shouted anti-Castro slogans.
Most of those who attended the speech, including Representative Jose E. Serrano, Democrat of New York, and Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat of California, denounced United States policies toward Cuba. The United States imposed the economic embargo shortly after Mr. Castro took power in 1959.
"The American people view Cuba very differently from its government," Mr. Serrano told a group of reporters in Spanish. He said he and those present only wanted Cuba to be "treated equally."
"If Cuba discovered oil tomorrow, my country would be its greatest ally," he said. "If Cuba had, and I don't want it to have, military arms that could create terror in the world, we would be allies."
Mr. Castro had visited Harlem and surrounding neighborhoods twice previously since 1960. He was invited by the New York Welcoming Committee for the Cuban Delegation for the Millennium. People wanting to attend were asked to fax requests. Last night, about 2,100 of them sat in the main chamber, while 300 sat in a side room watching on television.
The organization, made up of various grass-roots groups, asked Riverside if they could use the church.
"We hope to show tonight how many people there are who oppose the embargo," said Aleeka Wade, a spokeswoman for the group.
Mr. Castro was in New York this week to attend the United Nations summit. On Wednesday, he stirred the political winds when he shook hands with President Clinton during a luncheon -- the first time that Mr. Castro, 74, had ever locked hands with a sitting American president.
Describing the moment, Mr. Castro said he was walking along a hallway to have an official photograph taken when he saw President Clinton ahead of him shaking the hands of several world leaders. "I couldn't run away," he said. "In two minutes or less, I arrived at the place where he was standing. I stopped for a second, and with great dignity and courtesy we shook hands. He did exactly the same thing. It would have been rude for me to act differently. It all lasted for 20 seconds."
Last night, as she was waiting for Mr. Castro to arrive at Riverside, a supporter named Ellen P. Bernstein reflected on the Communist leader's role in the world even as she sang the Cuban national anthem.
"The U.S. people need to hear that he is not a devil, not the devil he is said to be," she said. "They need to hear he has important ideas for the same goals we all aspire to: world peace and security and the proper treatment of the poor."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Regina Acosta, left, and her sister, Elena Acosta, of New York protested in front of Riverside Church last night against the appearance of President Fidel Castro, who spoke to 2,400 supporters inside the church. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. A4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); RELIGION (70%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (54%); 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (92%); JOSE E SERRANO (50%); MAXINE WATERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2000



203 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: National News Briefs;
Riders Few, Delta to End Portland-Japan Flights

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Sept. 8

 BODY:
Stung by low ridership and high operating costs, Delta Air Lines is discontinuing its last two direct flights from Portland to Japan starting next April, ending 13 years of service. 
 Mac Armstrong, executive vice president of operations for Delta, said on Wednesday that the airline had lost $10 million on the Portland-Japan routes in the last 12 months.
Delta plans to replace its Portland-Japan service with one daily round-trip flight between John F. Kennedy Airport in New York and Tokyo and one daily round-trip flight between Los Angeles and Nagoya, Japan.
Mr. Armstrong said problems with the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which has been accused of detaining and deporting a disproportionately large number of foreign travelers at the Portland airport, were "not an economic factor in our decision."
But he acknowledged that the Portland airport's reputation in Asia, where some call it "Deportland," did play a role in the decision.
"The situation certainly was a factor from a customer-service point of view," Mr. Armstrong said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); ASIA (72%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHUBU JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); ASIA (72%); OREGON, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHUBU JAPAN (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AIRLINES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIR SERVICE (88%); EXECUTIVES (88%); DEPORTATION (86%); IMMIGRATION (86%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (55%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (57%); JOHN F KENNEDY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2000



204 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 4; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2210 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
The Long Road From Whoville to Broadway

BYLINE: By PETER MARKS

 BODY:
FOR the Broadway of right now, the notion seemed irresistible: an original musical out of the pages of Dr. Seuss that would turn Horton the Elephant and the Cat in the Hat into theater animals.
But one look at the characters onstage in Boston and the creators of "Seussical" knew the show had identity problems. Catherine Zuber's costumes for the eagerly anticipated production, based on the work of one of the world's most popular children's writers, were simply too stylized, too whimsical -- too, of all things, Seussian. 
 It was not that Ms. Zuber, a highly regarded designer in her own right, had failed her aesthetic mandate. It was just that the producers, authors and director of the $8.5 million production, a show blessed with some of the best pre-Broadway buzz in years, were worried. If taste-setting early audiences sensed too much fluff and preciousness, would the musical be categorized -- and marginalized -- as kids' stuff?
"We had beautiful costumes individually, but as soon as we put more than half a dozen out there it became such a feast for the eyes that we lost focus on the people and the storytelling," said Gary Gunas, who is producing "Seussical" along with such Broadway and Hollywood powerhouses as SFX Theatrical Group, Barry and Fran Weissler and Universal Studios. "Catherine and the rest of us just sort of stared up there and said, 'O.K., we've gone astray.' "
So, mere days before performances were to begin late last month for the show's Boston tryout, Ms. Zuber and her designs were out. William Ivey Long was brought in to replace her, with the idea of dressing the Seuss characters more realistically. Such substitutions are not unheard of in a show's trial-and-error phase out of town. But the last-minute turmoil was more than a struggle over how Dr. Seuss' exotic creations should look. It reflected the serious artistic and commercial conflicts arising ever more frequently these days as Broadway becomes more preoccupied with the needs of an age group that in the past it rarely catered to -- children -- while holding on for dear life to the adult audience that has sustained it.
Once upon a time, George Bernard Shaw or Thornton Wilder served as the inspiration for a season's major Broadway musical. Today, that role has shifted to the likes of Disney cartoon animators -- and the creator of "Green Eggs and Ham." From the New Amsterdam Theater on 42nd Street, where "The Lion King" reigns as the biggest Broadway hit in years, to the Royal National Theater in London, where "Honk!," a show based on "The Ugly Duckling," snared the Olivier Award for best musical this year, it is the fantasy world of the youngest theatergoers that has captured the imagination of the conceptualizers and bankrollers of lavish entertainments.
The evolution can be traced through shows like "Cats." When it began life on Broadway 18 years ago, it was touted as an innovative grown-up musical. But over the years, the marketing seemed to shift. Where once the show's dominant image was of that lithe dancer framed by a pair of cat's eyes, the television commercials became filled with the images of children having their faces painted to resemble the characters onstage.
"When I was a child in the suburbs of New York, the big event was to go to the theater and see the thing that all the adults were excited about," said Leonard Marcus, a children's book historian and critic. "I went to see 'My Fair Lady' and 'The Music Man' and 'Bye Bye Birdie': that's a reflection of how child-adult relationships were in those days. These days, there's a lot more interest in what the child wants to do. Doing things for the child's sake."
"Seussical," scheduled to open Nov. 9 at the Richard Rodgers Theater, was clearly created with the hope of tapping into the changing demographics of Broadway, a shift mainly brought about by three factors: the culture's obsession with youth, a nostalgia craze among baby boomers with children and an appetite for pricier family entertainment fueled by the robust economy.
But in engaging such known Broadway quantities as the lyricist Lynn Ahrens, the composer Stephen Flaherty and the director Frank Galati, all of "Ragtime" fame, along with the choreographer Kathleen Marshall ("Kiss Me, Kate"), the producers of "Seussical" found themselves faced with a difficult question: could an ambitious show that tells the story of an elephant who hatches an egg and a microscopic boy who lives on a speck of dust and a homely bird who just wants to be loved add up to something that grown-ups would buy tickets to, even if they didn't have children?
Barry Weissler, a co-producer of "Chicago" and "Annie Get Your Gun," joined the production team with his wife after he saw a workshop version last summer in Toronto that witnesses report had many a hard-bitten producing type in tears. Mr. Weissler said the success or failure of "Seussical" at overcoming preconceptions of how adult a show about Seuss could possibly be might be the ultimate test of its theatrical power.
THE magic numbers, say the producers of "Seussical," are 7 and 77. That is the age range they are seeking to attract; indeed, it is the range they believe they have to draw to approach the success of the show that radically changed perceptions of children's musical theater, "The Lion King." With its heart-stopping masks and visual effects, overseen by the avant-garde theater director Julie Taymor, on whom the Walt Disney Company took a chance, "The Lion King" demonstrated that a big, commercial family show could have artistic aspirations: that it could be more than a cartoon with Equity actors cast as dessert plates (Disney's "Beauty and the Beast") or the kind of clunky spectacle doomed to be made sport of by critics (Frank Wildhorn's "Jekyll and Hyde").
The powers behind "Seussical" believe that some of its strengths -- a melodic Ahrens-Flaherty score; an emotional narrative; a potential star in Kevin Chamberlin (a Tony nominee last season for his role in "Dirty Blonde"), who plays the hapless Horton -- make it a worthy example of old-style Broadway values, and thus perhaps an even likelier candidate than "The Lion King" for crossover appeal. Though Ms. Taymor's production received generally glowing notices, some critics, like Ben Brantley of The New York Times, pointed to the show's weaker elements -- for example, a book that seemed undramatic and characters that were essentially opaque.
Indeed, "Seussical" strives to be unlike "The Lion King" everywhere but at the box office. "We are a different animal," Mr. Weissler said, the pun unintentional. "Julie Taymor is a genius at what she does with masks and costumes. But that's the opposite of what we're doing. That's why the costumes had to go. Because they weren't allowing us to be the opposite."
Six weeks ago, in a fourth-floor studio at 890 Broadway, rehearsal central for musical theater in New York, Mr. Galati and Ms. Marshall watched as the company ran through the ensemble number "Here on Who." Whoville is an important destination in the nearly sung-through "Seussical." The inhabitants of "the tiniest planet in the sky" are beset by war and environmental disaster: some of the books by Dr. Seuss, a k a Theodor Geisel, are virtual parables of modern human perils. But the most affecting problem facing the Whos is that no one knows they are alive.
When the number was over, Mr. Galati seemed pleased. "There's no sense of cartoon," he told the company, and he meant it as a compliment. "It's absolutely real and specific. Just as long as it stays that way, the arc of the number will work."
That adult sensibility is intended to inform every movement. For example, when the denizens of Who, hoping that Horton will protect their little planet, end their serenade of him with "We're tiny little people/ Saying thanks in advance," Ms. Marshall devised a tip-o'-the-hat gesture on "thanks in advance" that is an homage to Broadway choruses of the past.
"Like any good theater, the theme reveals itself," she said. "The universality comes from the specifics."
The interwoven tales of "Seussical" amount to a musical convention of Seuss characters, presided over by the Cat in the Hat (played by David Shiner, half the mime team of "Fool Moon," in his first professional speaking role). It is Horton alone, as the famous story goes, who hears the Whos, and in particular one of the littlest Whos, a boy named JoJo (Andrew Keenan-Bolger and Anthony Blair Hall alternate in the role) with a vivid imagination and a feeling of being all alone in the universe.
It becomes Horton's humanitarian (elephantarian?) mission to have their innocent voices heard in the brutally cynical Jungle of Nool, where Horton himself is an outcast, a lonely figure of fun. He too has his blind spots, though; he is oblivious to the attentions of Gertrude McFuzz (Janine LaManna), a sorry-looking bird with only one pathetic tail feather.
With its deep investment in the rhyming nonsense of Seussian language -- "Think a Trip on a Ship/ To the Vipper of Vipp/ Or to Solla Sollew," the cast sings in the opening, "Oh, the Thinks You Can Think!" -- the musical is a manifesto on the liberation of the mind. It is also about the dignity of individual expression, the struggle to be noticed -- and accepted -- for who you are.
"It's really been Lynn's and my vision of Dr. Seuss," said Mr. Flaherty, who has been writing musicals with Ms. Ahrens for nearly 20 years. In addition to "Ragtime," their Broadway collaborations include "My Favorite Year" and "Once on This Island."
"Stephen forced me to read the books," Ms. Ahrens added. "The little Whos are like Earth: we're adrift, looking to save ourselves. We tried to be truthful to the innocent anarchy in the books. There is a deep concern in them for the planet, for human beings and how we should behave toward one another, and it plays out in all this zany stuff."
The songwriting team was recruited for the project by Livent, the Canadian theatrical production house founded by Garth Drabinsky, which produced "Ragtime" and obtained the rights to the Seuss anthology from Geisel's widow, Audrey. Following Mr. Drabinsky's dismissal after questions about Livent's bookkeeping practices, the shepherding of "Seussical" became the responsibility of SFX, the entertainment giant that had acquired Livent. Signing on as co-producers were Universal -- which is bringing out a big-screen version of "How the Grinch Stole Christmas" starring Jim Carrey, scheduled to open the week after "Seussical" -- and the Weisslers.
Initially, Eric Idle, a member of the Monty Python comedy team, was to write the book, but he dropped out well before last summer's Toronto workshop, the event that kicked "Seussical" into high gear. Even Audrey Geisel was there. "I was completely captivated," Mrs. Geisel said in a recent interview. "And if I had to be narrowed to one single word about the production it would have to be 'seamless.' " Though she had been wooed "many, many times" for the rights to musicalize her husband's works, she said, what persuaded her to yield on this occasion was the run-the-gamut approach.
"No one had ever hit on that bouquet of all the characters, and said 'I want to take all of them,' " she continued. "And before, none of it was enchanting enough that I wanted to give the critters up."
From that successful workshop, many actors were retained for Broadway. None are household names, but the most troubling loss was that of Andrea Martin, who won a Tony Award for "My Favorite Year" and was to play the Cat in the Hat, until she decided, the producers said, that she could not be away from her family in California for the length of a Broadway run. It was then that the producers approached Mr. Shiner, whose skills as a clown with a mean streak were thought to encompass just the sort of danger required for the major-domo-like role of the Cat.
Even more dangerously, though, the Cat in the Hat is ubiquitous in "Seussical," assuming various personalities, commenting on the action and, gulp, singing his heart out. And Mr. Shiner has absolutely no professional experience in a musical.
"I've never sung a note onstage in my life," he said. In fact, the thought of singing for the cast, let alone an audience, terrified him. "I just kept getting in a room and singing and singing and singing until I started feeling comfortable with it," Mr. Shiner added. "I started taking voice lessons, learning ways to deepen my voice and to relax, and I slowly discovered that my voice wasn't that bad."
In a sense, Mr. Shiner has become the embodiment of the show's attempt to defy expectations, the clown who is not just for children in a musical that is not meant just for them, either.
What he and everyone else associated with "Seussical" are banking on is Dr. Seuss's uncommon common touch.
"The essence of this piece is very universal and it connects in a deeply emotional way," Mr. Shiner said. "Horton and JoJo sing of being alone in the universe, of the notion that 'I have wings and I can fly.' There is a part of everyone that feels alone -- and the feeling we all have of something in us that is much, much deeper, that feeling that we can fly."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The cast of "Seussical," with David Shiner, front, as the Cat in the Hat. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. 14); Kevin Chamberlin, foreground, as Horton the Elephant and Andrew Keenan-Bolger as JoJo in "Seussical." (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (65%); 

COMPANY: NEW AMSTERDAM BOOKS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (65%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. THEATER (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (75%); MUSIC (73%); WRITERS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); ANIMATION (61%); 

PERSON: CATHERINE ZUBER (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



205 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 63; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2006 words

HEADLINE: FILM: PERIOD PIECES;
A Filmmaker Both Promising and Forgotten at 64

BYLINE: By DAVID THOMSON; David Thomson is the author of "A Biographical Dictionary of Film."

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
FEW authentic American filmmakers have done as much to absorb and employ non-American ways. Yet Philip Kaufman deserves to be regarded as an American filmmaker. "The Right Stuff" examined our power, our progress and all our brands of heroism. And it had that old American acid -- irony. But America didn't really enjoy that movie: the taste for irony had faded. So Phil looked farther afield: he made "The Unbearable Lightness of Being," a Czech film done in France; he did "Henry and June," about Americans in Paris and that stranger country called Sex. Again, America managed not to be impressed. But now, I think, he's got it: he has an Australian playing the Marquis de Sade in a picture made in England. Now only the dunces can miss the irony and the charming way in which "the English movie" has become the equivalent of an American genre.
"Quills" is wickedly funny, impious, blasphemous, very sexy, very tender, very frightening -- for it shows that prison may be a basic state -- but also mischievous, subversive and liberating. It's Phil's best work yet, and don't be surprised if it's a dark-horse hit of the season and best-picture material -- "The Marquis de Sade in Love"? 
 All of which is more than welcome from a director who will be 64 when "Quills" opens in November, and who hasn't had a picture since "Rising Sun" (1993), a smart adaptation of the Michael Crichton novel about the conflict between American and Japanese business practices. It was an effective, streamlined thriller, good enough to dispel foolish claims that it was anti-Japanese, but not as personal as many of Kaufman's movies.
I should admit that Phil Kaufman and I are friends. How close? Well, I've never quite known. But since before "The Right Stuff" (1983). His son, Peter, in a very gentlemanly way, once took out one of my daughters. I'm likely to bump into Phil at the Saturday morning farmers' market, where he gives good but gentle advice on the corn to pick, and we'll talk about jazz, basketball, soccer, having children and grandchildren, and so on. It's a San Francisco thing: we live only a few blocks apart and have the same couple clean our houses. I'm mentioning all this because I still remember the awful day, in 1990, when he showed me "Henry and June." This was well before the film opened but at a time when he was in shock and dismay, having heard that the film would be branded with the kiss of death, an NC-17 rating.
Anyone could tell Phil needed support -- just as America deserved and still deserves to be allowed to grow up and live happily with the NC-17 rating. There ought to be films no one under 17 should see. There ought to be some space for grown-up ideas, for intimacy and danger.
Well, I didn't like "Henry and June" -- it doesn't matter why now. But I told him. It was part of my being too proud or too stupid, or too much the critic, to find other things to say. Not that he was going to fall for evasions. Still, it showed me that filmmakers and critics have their own adjoining prisons. It cooled us, I know, and I hope we both regretted that.
"Henry and June" flopped: no film can survive NC-17 commercially in these hypocritical times. And his previous movie, a stunning mix of sex and politics taken from Milan Kundera's "Unbearable Lightness of Being" (1988), was more admired than seen. There was some talk in the business that Phil Kaufman, who had been offered nearly every interesting project in the 80's, had gone into a corner in the 90's. Did he want to make European, art-house pictures?
The fact was that although "The Right Stuff" had been a box-office disappointment, Hollywood had thrilled to its facility, the dance of adventure and slapstick, the paean to flight and the satire on hype and bureaucracy. It was also a picture that introduced a clutch of eccentric new actors, Kaufman types: not just Sam Shepard as the Gary Cooper-like Chuck Yeager, but Dennis Quaid, Ed Harris, Fred Ward, Lance Henriksen and Scott Glenn. The director's deft handling of "The Right Stuff," which cost far less than anyone thought it had because so many locations and sets were cooked up in the Bay Area, was noticed and appreciated.
But facility, allied with evident intelligence (educated at the University of Chicago, he reckoned once to be a lawyer), could be read as a maverick spirit, an outsider's aloofness. Kaufman had let it be known some years earlier that he preferred to live in the Bay Area, with his wife (and sometime co-writer), Rose. He had done his time in Los Angeles, but he was unconvinced that a director needed to stay close to the source of power. That independence had its downside. As the writer and first director on "The Outlaw Josey Wales" (1976), Phil had had a showdown with his producer-star, Clint Eastwood. Eastwood said Phil couldn't make up his mind. Kaufman had said there were scenes where more than one or two takes might be justified: work longer with a thing and you might find more depth.
PHIL had been fired and Eastwood took over as director on what proved a very successful picture -- which might have been better still, and might have punctured the absurd myth that Eastwood is a great director instead of just a very effective, rather brutal producer. A few years later, after he had had hopes of being its writer-director, Kaufman ended up with only a story credit (and a nice little percentage) on what turned into "Raiders of the Lost Ark."
Some said he was too stubborn or suspicious of the business, too sensitive or too fixed on a private vision. You could see such traits in his early films -- "The Great Northfield, Minnesota Raid" (1972), a screwball western about the James gang; "The White Dawn" (1974), a story of whalers stranded off Alaska; "Invasion of the Body Snatchers" (1978), a wonderful, cool, scary remake all done in San Francisco, in which the paranoia of Jack Finney's novel lapped over into the neurosis of New Age people; and "The Wanderers" (1979), a romantic gang movie, taken from the Richard Price novel.
Kaufman can be wry about being both promising and forgotten at 64. His modest company, Walrus -- which is him; Rose; their son, Peter, who is now Phil's co-producer; and a secretary -- is based in the North Beach of restaurants and cafes. For economy's sake, they did some of the editing on "Quills" there in the office, with the editor, Peter Boyle, brought over from England. One afternoon this summer, we talked there, and I asked Phil to explain the gap since "Rising Sun."
"Two solid years of my hiatus," he said, "was a thing called 'The Alienist.' A wonderful period novel by Caleb Carr. It had very dark material. But when I set out on it, I said to Sherry Lansing at Paramount, 'Are you really going to do a story about a boy whore who is killed?' And she looked me in the eye and said, 'You bet we are.' We worked on the script, the locations, everything. Two years -- no exaggeration. It was ready to go when the studio said, 'Well, no, perhaps we're not.' There has been a crazy indecision over material. You can do anything if it's violence or horror, but get into the depths of real behavior and they lose confidence.
"There have been other things. Eric Roth wrote a script about the C.I.A., 'The Good Shepherd,' with James Jesus Angleton as the central character. Zoetrope was going to do that, then changed their policy. That was another year. I did a John Grisham novel, 'Runaway Jury,' and though there hasn't been a Grisham film that hasn't made money, they didn't want to do that. Cecil Brown did a script for me about Mezz Mezzrow, a white jazz musician in the 30's who was also a drug dealer. 'What's jazz?' they said.
"And there were other things."
The Walrus office is crowded with books and research materials, to say nothing of scripts. There was a plan for a movie about the Marvel Comics character Sub-Mariner; the story of Lana Turner and Johnny Stompanato, with David Peoples doing the script; a film about the spy Aldrich Ames. And as Phil comes out of "Quills," he is talking about two very different projects -- a life of Liberace and a screen version of Saul Bellow's novel "Henderson the Rain King," maybe with Jack Nicholson.
Who would have thought, then, that the project to come through would be the one concerned with the imprisonment of the Marquis de Sade?
"Fox Searchlight sent it to me a couple of years ago; it was a script by Doug Wright, taken from his own play, which had done well off Broadway. I never saw the play, and I've never read it. But I knew his script could be something. I didn't know much more than the vague outline of de Sade's life, but this was a parable about freedom of expression and, in his case, the inability not to be expressive. It was about sexual urge and hypocrisy, and it meant more to me because I came upon it at the time of Clinton, Monica and Kenneth Starr."
PHIL read a lot about de Sade -- from Simone de Beauvoir to Angela Carter -- and was startled to see how respectable a literary figure he has become in France. But he wasn't so concerned with the real figure: fat, over 60, astonishingly selfish and probably impotent. In casting Geoffrey Rush, he wanted a modern satyr, a dangerous rascal, yet an inescapably attractive figure whose most insidious act is to whisper new ideas in innocent ears. Some will be outraged at the presentation; others may see a crucial, modern example of the artist as sick man.
The drama of "Quills" is contained in an asylum where de Sade is at first happily confined. Behind bars, he writes his pornographic books, which are smuggled out by the laundress (Kate Winslet). De Sade has an eye for her, and she is attracted to him, but the conditions of prison allow for their delicious frustration. The abbe at Charenton (Joaquin Phoenix) is an idealist and a humanitarian, but he is in love with the laundress, too. It is his liberalism as a leader that brings a new, vengeful superior, a Starr in excelsis (played by Michael Caine). Thus the scene is set for the final confrontation between regulator and writer. But the regulator is doomed, for this author is ready to write when quills and paper are gone, in the very material of his body.
The ending is tragic and blasphemous, and it involves an extraordinarily luminous necrophilia scene. Obviously, this is tricky material, the more easily shot in England, where bits and pieces of many noble buildings served to make the asylum, and where the dedication of Kate Winslet, who was the first performer to commit to the film, inspired a cast that includes such actors as Patrick Malahide and Billie Whitelaw in smaller roles. The movie looks and talks like the 18th century, but the sense of nobility and self-destructiveness in the sex and the writing are utterly modern. And the whole thing ripples with comedy. You marvel at the sustained lightness of touch in a film that could have turned preachy, and may yet be forbidden in certain unironic places.
In the longer view, you can see de Sade as one more of Kaufman's outsider heroes, dangerous to themselves and alarming to society. I wonder where he will go next -- I could still see him finding his kind of saintliness in a Liberace or a James Jesus Angleton. But there's something else odd: Phil loves stories of adventure, remote settings and voyages, but he is an uncommon family man among filmmakers. I can think of no one else who works so closely with wife and son.
Yet the Phil I try to know is also a touch distanced from even his beloved family. I think he has a profound sense of being alone. It is the perfect basis for a subject he hasn't really tried yet -- the family, the real American family, like O'Neill's Tyrones, and the way in which they sail on another dark sea from the one floodlit with "family values." Above all, what Phil has done with "Quills" is help us see our kinship with monsters, demons and those divine surgeons who know the quill can be sharper than the sword -- and so much more enjoyable if pointedly applied to soft skin.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Philip Kaufman directing Kate Winslet on the set of "Quills" in England. (David Appleby/Fox Searchlight)(pg. 73); Geoffrey Rush as the Marquis de Sade and Kate Winslet as an object of his affection in "Quills," Philip Kaufman's first film since 1993. It opens in November. (David Appleby/Fox Searchlight)(pg. 63)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (90%); FRANCE (88%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

COMPANY: KAUFMAN'S (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (90%); FRANCE (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); FILM GENRES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); LITERATURE GENRES (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (61%); BASKETBALL (50%); 

PERSON: KATE WINSLET (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



206 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 57; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2072 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
Enough About Angels: The Devil Gets His Due

BYLINE: By JAMIE MALANOWSKI; Jamie Malanowski's most recent article for Arts & Leisure was about Chris McQuarrie, writer-director of "The Way of the Gun."

 BODY:
ANGELS have been gracing pop culture fairly ostentatiously these last several years -- "Touched by an Angel," "City of Angels," "Angels in the Outfield," "Angels in America," John Travolta spectacularly spreading his wings in "Michael," the elevation of "It's a Wonderful Life" to a basic text of American civilization. But lately, and almost unnoticed in the seraphic swell, the Devil has been getting his due.
Date the current surge to 1997, when Al Pacino was so charismatically diabolical in "The Devil's Advocate." Since then, the Devil has been a featured player in three television series, "G vs. E," "Brimstone" and "God, the Devil and Bob"; had a big part last year in the Arnold Schwarzenegger action picture"End of Days"; prominently appeared in the Johnny Depp vehicle "The Ninth Gate"; was the prime mover of the plot of the Kim Basinger movie "Bless the Child" this summer; and had the key supporting part -- the best part, really, and one in which he showed a surprising comic touch and a long-hidden singing voice -- in "South Park: Bigger, Longer, Uncut," last summer's animation hit. 
 I know what you're thinking: with as many people in Hollywood headed for hell as the religious right seems to think, why such an uneven output? All three television series tanked. The big "Ninth Gate" reunion of Roman Polanski and the Devil turned out to be less a reimagining of "Rosemary's Baby" than leftovers on the order of "The Odd Couple II." And "End of Days," dramatically speaking, fell short of apocalyptic. But the Devil must have an awfully good agent: this fall will have no fewer than five movies featuring Old Nick.
"Bedazzled," a remake of the Peter Cook-Dudley Moore classic, stars Brendan Fraser as a nerdy young man who, in exchange for the fulfillment of seven wishes, surrenders his soul to a very seductive Devil played by Elizabeth Hurley. "Little Nicky" is a comedy in which the casting seems half the attraction: Adam Sandler as Satan's good son, Harvey Keitel as Satan and Rodney Dangerfield as Satan's father. In "Lost Souls," a thriller, Winona Ryder plays a devout schoolteacher who becomes aware of a Satanic conspiracy against a New York journalist (like, only one?). "Simon Magus," a British film by Ben Hopkins set in 19th-century Europe, is about a young man seemingly possessed by the Devil (Ian Holm, who, making sure that all his bases are covered in the afterlife, played a Satan-fighting priest in "Bless the Child"). And the granddaddy of them all, "The Exorcist," will be rereleased with additional material never shown before -- perhaps scenes where the poor girl stops spewing pea soup and moves on to beef barley and chicken with stars. Not to give anything short shrift, hovering somewhere in straight-to-videoland is "G-Men From Hell," in which the Devil is portrayed by Robert Goulet.
While this does seem to be an especially verdant crop full of stellar performers, Devil movies have always been with us. A search of the Internet Movie Database (imdb.com), in a highly unofficial but still usefully suggestive count, yields 290 movies about the Devil, starting with Georges Melies's "Cabinet de Mephistopheles," which was made in 1897, but more than half the films have been made since 1980. Among the more provocative items on the list: "Inflation" (1942), in which the Devil, in response to a telephone call from Hitler, begins wrecking the American economy by encouraging people to cash in their war bonds, to hoard and to spend too much money (no doubt an impressionable Alan Greenspan attended repeated showings); "Santa Claus" (1959), in which Santa has to battle Satan's minions before delivering his Christmas Eve rewards; "Satan's Cheerleaders" (1977), in which the members of a high school cheerleading squad turn out to be -- as many have long suspected -- ringleaders of a satanic cult; "Fertilize the Blaspheming Bombshell" (1990), in which a comely lass is menaced by Satan worshipers en route from New York to Las Vegas, and "Girlfriend from Hell" (1990), in which the Devil, fleeing one of God's agents, hides in the body of a young woman on a blind date. Perhaps this is based on a true story.
Although we missed these films, we've seen plenty of others. Some general themes emerge.
 
1. HOLLYWOOD CAN'T AGREE ON WHAT THE DEVIL CAN DO. Moviemakers are pretty consistent about the Devil's being the source of all evil in the world, but there's a range of opinion on other matters, beginning with whether he's the Devil at all. Sometimes the character we see is clearly Satan (Mr. Pacino in "The Devil's Advocate," the Beast in "Rosemary's Baby"), sometimes he is the Devil in human form (Gabriel Byrne in "End of Days"), and sometimes he's the Devil's son (Sam Neill in the "Omen" sequels). Sometimes, for whatever reason, the Devil is more reclusive, and we meet his emissary or servant (Rufus Sewell in "Bless the Child"). Sometimes it's not clear whom we're seeing. Emmanuelle Seigner may be the Devil in "The Ninth Gate," but the whole movie is about how complicated it is to summon the Devil, and she's been hanging around the whole picture. In "Damn Yankees," is Ray Walston the Devil or just his field representative in Washington? And why isn't his office on K Street?
Other questions remain. Sometimes the Devil can be thwarted by faith -- in "The Evil" (1978), when the psychologist played by Richard Crenna uses a crucifix to stab Victor Buono, playing Satan as a grouchy neighbor who won't give back your baseball, it stymies Satan long enough for Mr. Crenna to escape. Rediscovering faith helps Mr. Schwarzenegger thwart the Devil in "End of Days." But they're stars. Faith is fairly useless to secondary characters, like the elderly priest in "The Omen" whose function in the movie is to warn a skeptical Gregory Peck that he really shouldn't be worrying about getting his son into a good prep school, and then to die gruesomely. Sometimes faith has nothing to do with it: in "Crossroads" (1983), the hero's classical-music training enables him to win a blues-guitar showdown and beat the Devil.
There are other discrepancies. Usually the Devil has extraordinary demonic powers. But at other times he seems weaker, resorting to agents -- a dog in "The Omen," street kids in "Bless the Child" -- to wreak havoc. Occasionally he goes to great lengths to avoid suspicion: in "The Omen," he kills a character by causing him to be decapitated by a runaway cart -- nothing a veteran police officer hasn't seen before; in "Bless the Child," the Devil proves as inept as a Bond villain -- instead of just offing Kim Basinger, he tries to kill her by causing her to drive off a bridge, and she gets away. All this is very confusing. Is the Devil who causes a lighting bolt to break a shaft off a church and then sends it ripping through the air to pierce a cleric in "The Omen" the same Devil who relies on sweaty spells, deal-making and the drug-dispensing ministrations of Ruth Gordon just to get a young woman pregnant in "Rosemary's Baby"? Can the Devil who blows up restaurants on a whim in "End of Days" be the same fussy businessman who patiently waits for Mickey Rourke to track down Johnny Favorite in "Angel Heart"? Why does Mr. Pacino's Devil let his minions spend so much time shredding documents to thwart a government investigation if he's perfectly capable, as he demonstrates, of just killing the investigator?
Well, maybe he is -- the big source book is hardly consistent. Professor Elaine Pagels, the Harrington Speare Professor of Religion at Princeton University, points out in her book "The Origin of Satan" that the first few times Satan appears in the Old Testament, he's just a servant of God sent to obstruct human activity -- on God's orders. Gradually, Satan's role evolves. He prods God to test Job; later, Satan is blamed for pushing King David into an unpopular tax plan. Only in Isaiah do we finally get the 411 about the rebellion of the angels who sought to elevate themselves above God. And in the New Testament, Jesus arrives to redeem the world from Satan, who aims to stop him. In the first gospels, Satan tempts Jesus personally; in the last gospel, Jesus is tempted by people. If the Bible isn't consistent about what the Devil does, how can we expect Hollywood to be?
 
2. THE DEVIL IS CURIOUSLY ENCUMBERED BY RULES, BOUNDARIES, BUREAUCRACY. In "The Evil," he is stuck in the basement of an old, spooky house and would never get out without the help of some well-meaning social workers (secular humanists!) who move in. In "The Ninth Gate," Satan can be summoned only with secret incantations recited in the right order -- placing the film at odds with all the movies in which he roams around at will. In "End of Days," Satan has to assume human form, and impregnate a certain woman by a certain date to establish his realm; he may be the Prince of Darkness, but punctuality counts. In "Crossroads," a blues singer signs his soul away on paper. In "Damn Yankees," the contract has an escape clause. In "Angel Heart," all the Devil wants is the soul he was promised. Maybe one day we'll get an Arthur Miller version, Satan Loman, his feet aching, wearily pushing his temptations on an inattentive world.
 
3. IT DOESN'T PAY TO WORK FOR THE DEVIL. Although the Devil seems to have cast a kindly glance at the old folks who served him in "Rosemary's Baby," elsewhere he is literally the Boss From Hell. In "Omen III," "Angel Heart" and "The Devil's Advocate," useful, loyal retainers are crisply eliminated the moment they cause Satan any trouble. In "Damn Yankees," when his assistant, Lola, gets too sweet on her intended victim, the Devil makes her ugly. When you go to work for the Devil, think in terms of immediate payoffs; his pension plan is weak.
 
4. THE DEVIL IS ALWAYS PUTTING CHILDREN FIRST. A surprisingly large number of movies have to do with Satan's wanting to be a father. Obviously, there's "Rosemary's Baby." But "The Omen" is about the Devil's son, "End of Days" about the Devil wanting to sire a son, and "The Devil's Advocate" about Satan wanting his son to sire a son. You can't really say that "The Witches of Eastwick" is about the Devil's wanting to sire a son, but in the end he winds up with three. "Little Nicky," clearly, is going to fall somewhere in this tradition. Also clearly, these plot lines are a reaction to the story of Jesus, the Son of God. But the impulse isn't the same: Jesus comes to redeem humanity by his death, a sacrifice no son of Satan is being asked to make. Why does Satan need an heir? Is he going somewhere? Does he have expansion plans? Who's going to mentor the kid? And if he spends his apprenticeship drinking, taking drugs and chasing women, doesn't that constitute learning the business?
 
5. EVERYBODY LIKES TO PLAY VILLAINS. Jesus has been played by Max von Sydow, Jeffrey Hunter and Willem Dafoe. But look who has played the Devil: Mr. Pacino, Jack Nicholson, Robert De Niro, George C. Scott, Billy Crystal, Claude Rains, Donald Pleasence, Sam Neill, Vincent Price, Terence Stamp and Mickey Rooney. That's a lot of awardware on hell's mantelpiece.
 
6. IT'S HARD TO BE TEMPTING. Devils in the movies generally come in two forms: destroyers and tempters. The destroyers are fairly easy to place -- you just have to be bad. It's harder to be the tempter -- for the scene to work, Satan really has to be persuasive. You can see how hard it is in last year's mini-series "Jesus," in which Jeroen Krabbe, a capable actor, had to persuade Jesus to renounce his mission. Mr. Krabbe was about as convincing as a car dealer; far better at the art of closing are Mr. Nicholson and Mr. Pacino. In "Eastwick," Mr. Nicholson's Devil plays on each woman's vulnerability, teasing out her small resentments and places of self-pity to bring her along. In "The Devil's Advocate," Mr. Pacino goes one better: he actively encourages the Keanu Reeves character to do the right thing, knowing that he has so cleverly stacked the deck that Mr. Reeves will reject the virtuous alternative. In the end, he still overplays his hand, and Mr. Reeves thwarts him by killing himself -- which seems to be the method of choice for thwarting the Devil (see Mr. Schwarzenegger in "End of Days" and Jason Miller in "The Exorcist").
But surely these are only temporary setbacks. That's the thing about the Devil -- he's always practicing.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Satan has family, too, at least in Hollywood: Adam Sandler as the good son of the Devil (played by Harvey Keitel) in "Little Nicky." (New Line Cinema)(pg. 62); Elizabeth Hurley (as the Devil) and Brendan Fraser in a remake of "Bedazzled." (20th Century Fox)(pg. 57)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FILM (87%); RELIGION (74%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); ANIMATION (67%); 

PERSON: JOHNNY DEPP (54%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (53%); ADAM SANDLER (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



207 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 32; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 4697 words

HEADLINE: THE ANNOTATED LIST;
Ken Burns, Napoleon and Plenty of Pseudo 'Sex'

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:

September
 
"ON OUR OWN TERMS: MOYERS ON DYING" Not a title calculated to drive ratings, that's for sure. Four 90-minute reports on end-of-life journeys, with those on the road as well as their loved ones and caregivers. PBS, starting tonight at 9. A related article is on Page 27. 

"GIRLFRIENDS" A series whose name may be the most-used word in comedies with mainly black casts. It's built on the relationships among four young black women -- and yes, that is the same number as "Sex and the City." UPN, Mondays at 9:30, starting this week.
 
* "ONE DAY IN SEPTEMBER" The Oscar-winning documentary about the attack on Israeli athletes at the 1972 Munich Olympics comes to television. It covers the events from the hostage-taking through the futile negotiations to the violent conclusion. It includes an interview with the only surviving Arab terrorist, Jamal al-Gashey, who has been in hiding for 28 years. HBO, tomorrow night at 8.
 
* "TWO-MINUTE DRILL" What does Michael Davies, the production mastermind behind "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire," do for an encore? He does a sports quiz show, with Kenny Mayne as host and with three contestants showing off their arcane knowledge in an effort to win cash prizes that escalate -- but slowly. And only up to $200,000, not a million. As a producer put it: "Hey, we're cable." Then again, how much should you get for knowing things like who has the Kansas City Royals' season record for home runs? (O.K., I know, it's Steve Balboni, 36.) ESPN, Mondays at 7, starting this week.
 
"THE ELIAN GONZALEZ STORY" And the winner in the latest rush to make a ripped-from-the-headlines movie is: Fox Family Channel, which beat out CBS, whose movie of the same title is not yet scheduled. Here a child actor named Alec Roberts plays Elian, with Esai Morales as his father and Laura Elena Harring as Marisleysis Gonzalez. The events should be rather familiar. Fox Family, next Sunday at 8.
 
"FEAR" "Blair Witch" meets "Survivor." Young contestants compete to survive in a setting with a horrifying background while they are constantly harassed and scared out of their wits. They all have cameras attached to their vests. MTV, Sept. 21 at 10.
 
"DIRECT EFFECT" An effort to link online fascination with video fascination: viewers vote online for the next video they want to see, mixed in with the usual guests and live performances. It sounds a bit like Total Online Request Live. The host is the one-named Teck, of "Real World" fame. MTV, starting Sept. 25 at 5:30.
 
* "AMERICAN MASTERS: CLINT EASTWOOD" One of the most reliably fascinating PBS series takes a look at the now esteemed actor and director as he hits 70. PBS, Sept. 27 at 8.
 
October
 
"JACKASS" An off-beat show with silly pranks and antics performed by Johnny Knoxville, exploring the underground world of skateboarders. MTV, starting Oct. 1 at 9.
 
"THE NEXT BIG THING" Dean Olsher, host of this weekly one-hour radio variety show, wants it to be "a show about anything." Planned segments range from an accordion lesson delivered in French to a matchmaker's interrogation of a septuagenarian reporter. WNYC (93.9), starting Oct. 1 at 11 a.m.
 
"DEADLINE" Nobody in television makes better crime dramas than Dick Wolf of "Law and Order," but here he is trying a hybrid: crime and journalism. Oliver Platt plays a famous of-the-street columnist for a New York tabloid; he also teaches journalism, and he and his team of young students investigate crimes on the side. The cast includes such familiar names as Bebe Neuwirth, Lili Taylor and Tom Conti. NBC, Mondays at 9, starting Oct 2.
 
* "FRONTLINE: THE CHOICE" In what is now something of a tradition, the documentary series takes a close look at the men running for president. Reported by Peter Boyer, the program promises to avoid pundits and stick to friends, mentors and historians. PBS, Oct. 2 at 9.
 
"TUCKER" In television, no good show goes unparroted. In this case, "Malcolm in the Middle" seems the obvious inspiration, though this is clearly a less-inspired version. A teenage boy finds his life in disarray after his parents' divorce, and he and his mother are forced to move in with his strident aunt and her slug of a son. Katey Sagal ("Married With Children") is the aunt, while Eli Marienthal ("American Pie") plays Tucker. NBC, Mondays at 8:30, starting Oct. 2.
 
"YES, DEAR" A comedy less notable for its premise -- two couples who are close friends differ about approaches to being parents -- than its cast, which features not one, but two former stars of famously failed "must see" Thursday-night comedies on NBC: Mike O'Malley of "The Mike O'Malley Show" and Anthony Clark of "Boston Common." CBS, Mondays at 8:30, starting Oct. 2.
 
"BUILDING BIG" A five-hour look at some of the most spectacular structures in the world, including the Channel tunnel, the Golden Gate Bridge and the Toronto Skydome. The host is the author and illustrator David Macaulay ("The Way Things Work"). PBS, starting Oct. 3 at 8.
 
* "DARK ANGEL" This is the first creative work undertaken by James Cameron since "Titanic," and while not quite as ambitious, it is a highly polished piece of science fiction entertainment with a young star, Jessica Alba ("Can't Hardly Wait"), who commands the screen. She plays a superwoman type who has escaped a genetic experiment in a post-apocalyptic future, when the world's economic system has collapsed, and teams with a streaming-video journalist to expose the bad guys. Among her other amazing talents, Ms. Alba manages to support lips that look like they're been stung by a whole hive of bees. Fox, Tuesdays at 9, starting Oct. 3.
 
"THE GEENA DAVIS SHOW" Truly a star vehicle, this show wants to be "Sex and the City" crossed with a family comedy, a tall order. But then Geena Davis is a really tall actress. She plays a Manhattan career woman who marries a divorced guy (Peter Horton of "Thirtysomething") with kids, making her an instant mom. It's a well-positioned show that will do well if it's well executed. ABC, Tuesdays at 9:30, starting Oct. 3.
 
* "GIDEON'S CROSSING" The season's most serious drama, with the estimable Andre Braugher of "Homicide" moving into medicine at a teaching hospital that takes on desperate cases. It's heavy going, especially with many patients facing terminal illnesses, but Mr. Braugher has big acting shoulders. Reuben Blades co-stars. ABC, Wednesdays at 10, starting Oct. 4.
 
"TITANS" The season's standout in terms of sheer silliness, the latest soap opera from Aaron Spelling seems unsure itself whether its hilarious hokiness is intentional. It's about the usual stuff: the members of a rich, venal family scheme to ruin one another, mainly through sex. Yasmine Bleeth has the juicy vixen role, though her supposedly venomous lines draw mostly laughs. But Mr. Spelling has mined this territory successfully before. Victoria Principal of "Dallas" makes a comeback as an older-generation vixen. NBC, Wednesdays at 8, starting Oct. 4.
 
"GILMORE GIRLS" A gentle, quirky multigenerational drama with a light touch about a mother and her daughter in a Connecticut town. Lauren Graham stars as the mom, with Alexis Blendel as the other Gilmore girl. WB, Thursdays at 8, starting Oct. 5.
 
"C.S.I." A crime drama with a heavy emphasis on forensic science, this hour has a number of things going for it, including a reasonably intelligent approach and a cast headed by Marg Helgenberger ("China Beach") and William Petersen ("The Rat Pack"). The producer is Jerry Bruckheimer, who usually blows things up in the movies. CBS, Fridays at 9, starting Oct. 6.
 
"FREAKYLINKS" Inevitably, we have a show about a Web site. This one has ties to the makers of "The Blair Witch Project" and tries to make a similarly scary name for itself. A team of young hunters of the paranormal traces strange links to the death of a team member's brother. There is, of course, a real Web site to feed the hoped-for frenzy of interest. Fox, Fridays at 9, starting Oct. 6.
 
"THE FUGITIVE" What's it been? Forty years? It's actually been 37 since the original series made its debut, and it's already been updated once as a movie, but the old chase is back. Dr. Richard Kimble, convicted of murdering his wife, runs from Lieutenant Gerard, while simultaneously seeking the one-armed man who did the deed. Tim Daly gets the David Janssen/Harrison Ford part, with Mykelti Williamson stepping in for Barry Morse/Tommy Lee Jones. In case anybody's still wondering, Dr. Kimble didn't do it. CBS, Fridays at 8, starting Oct. 6.
 
"MADIGAN MEN" Another show with roots in "Sex and the City." This one would like to take a look at the male side, as long as that means men with Irish roots who share a Manhattan apartment and spout cute Irish aphorisms. Gabriel Byrne, a true potential television star, is the newly single man with a teenage son and a dad from the old sod, played by Roy Dotrice, who also played opposite Mr. Byrne on Broadway in "Moon for the Misbegotten." ABC, Fridays at 9:30, starting Oct. 6.
 
"THE TROUBLE WITH NORMAL" What does that title mean? No, there is no character named Normal; instead, there are two paranoid characters who think their neighbor is spying on them. Jon Cryer, who has had numerous shots in television comedies in the past, plays the neighbor who is equally paranoid and actually is spying on them. They all go to a therapist. Many people have paranoid tendencies, which perhaps sets up a sizable audience, but do people who are paranoid find paranoia funny? ABC, Fridays at 8:30, starting Oct. 6.
 
"THE DISTRICT" A crime drama that aims to be edgy, but may be asking for trouble: a white police chief, played by Craig T. Nelson, moves to Washington to clean up a town where black leaders have failed. Some genuinely gripping moments could get lost in the potential controversy. CBS, Saturdays at 10, starting Oct. 7.
 
"STAGE ON SCREEN: THE MAN WHO CAME TO DINNER" A live performance of the current Broadway production of the Kaufman and Hart play, with Nathan Lane and Jean Smart. PBS, Oct. 7 at 8.
 
"THAT'S LIFE" Another show looking to duplicate the "you can go home again" premise of "Providence," this quirky-funny hour has some nice character work from Heather Paige Kent ("Stark Raving Mad") as a woman in her 30's who dumps her fiance and goes back to college, and from Paul Sorvino and Ellen Burstyn as her parents. CBS, Saturdays at 8, starting Oct. 7.
 
* "ED" The one new NBC series that seems to be getting an affectionate response, this gentle, likable hourlong comedy is not big on laughs but it works because of its sweet characters. Tom Cavanaugh ("Providence") reacts to the misfortune of losing his job and his wife (to the mailman) in the same day by fleeing to his hometown, a recurring theme this season. There he essentially resurrects his adolescence, reuniting with high school friends and even chasing the unattainable girl from those years. To accomplish that, he buys a local bowling alley, where he also dispenses legal advice. Even though it's from two of David Letterman's longtime writers, Rob Burnett and John Beckerman, it's a show that could give warm and fuzzy a good name. NBC, Sundays at 8, starting Oct. 8.
 
"HYPE" A cast of newcomers tries to bring the sketch comedy formula up to date in a weekly series of fast-paced parodies of youth-oriented movies and music. WB, still sticking to the recipe that built the Fox network, tries to re-create the magic of "In Living Color." WB, Sundays at 9, starting Oct. 8.
 
"NIKKI" Looking for new venues and new characters, Bruce Helford, the creator of "The Drew Carey Show," goes all the way to Las Vegas to build a comedy around a dancer on the Strip, played by Nikki Cox of "Norm," who is married to a big lug who wants to be a wrestler. WB, Sundays at 9:30, starting Oct 8.
 
"OLIVER TWIST" The big "Masterpiece Theater" effort of the season, a three-part adaptation of the Dickens book with Robert Lindsay, Julie Walters and Michael Kitchen. PBS, starting Oct. 8 at 9.
 
* "BETTE" The most anticipated new comedy of the season, with Bette Midler playing a version of herself, in the throwback style of "Burns and Allen" or "The Jack Benny Program." Actors play the other members of her family, as well as her manager and accompanist, but the show is all about Ms. Midler, with a lot of her brand of broad comedy mixed with regular bursts of music. That has always been a winning formula for her, and it should be here, too. CBS, Wednesdays at 8, starting Oct. 11.
 
* "WELCOME TO NEW YORK" A comedy with most of the conventions intact -- a fish out of water shines in a new work environment -- but in this case the writing makes it exceed the preconceptions. Jim Gaffigan plays an Indiana guy brought in to be a weather reporter for a television show in New York by the brassy producer, played by Christine Baranski. Watch for an unusual clash between Mr. Gaffigan's character and the entrenched anchorman, played by Rocky Carroll. CBS, Wednesday at 8:30 starting Oct. 11.
 
"CURSED" For how many years now has NBC tried to make comedies hits by slotting them in the ideal location, Thursdays at 9? So many that the title of this one seems all too apt. Steven Weber ("Wings") plays a man whose comfortable life falls apart after a bad date, when the woman puts a curse on him. Yeah, and then what happens? That's the part that nobody seems to know. NBC, Thursdays at 9:30, starting Oct. 12.
 
* "CURB YOUR ENTHUSIASM" One of the wildest and most promising new series of the season. It is the creation of Larry David, the comic mind behind many of the greatest episodes of "Seinfeld," and is improvised from basic story lines. Mr. David plays himself as a stand-up comic surrounded by dysfunctional, loony friends. It sounds like "Seinfeld," but it's much different -- after all, it's on cable. HBO, starting Oct. 15.
 
"AMERICAN EXPERIENCE: THE ROCKEFELLERS" A two-part biography of the rich American family, from the early days of Standard Oil to the current generation. From producers who previously chronicled the Kennedy family and Ronald Reagan. PBS, starting Oct. 16 at 9.
 
"SPIDERGAMES" The first original daytime soap opera on cable, about a family investigating the murder of the most hated man in town. Everyone is a suspect and an heir to his video-game empire. MTV, starting Oct. 16 at 4:30, repeating at 11 p.m.
 
"THE FEARING MIND" Here's the concept: Stephen King and his New England family in a sitcom. A horror novelist named Bill Fearing has real-life horrors, including a mother-in-law who said she had one month to live five years ago -- and other wacky stuff like that. The British actor Harry Van Gorkum, whose name sounds like a Stephen King character, stars, with Susan Gibney. Fox Family, starting Oct. 20 at 9.
 
"BOSTON PUBLIC" A drama about life in a high school would not sound too promising if it were not coming from David E. Kelley, who has made "Ally McBeal" and "The Practice" into two of the best series of the last five years. Here the challenge is making daily high school life dramatic and funny, and it's a bit of a stretch. A plot in which a teacher fired a gun in a classroom drew instant protest, and Mr. Kelly promised changes. As usual, his writing is of a high quality and so is much of the acting, led by Chi McBride as an intense principal. Fox, Mondays at 8, starting Oct. 23.
 
* "HATE.COM: EXTREMISTS ON THE INTERNET" A documentary about how hatemongers have used the Web to find new recruits, spread their messages and in some instances even set up hate crimes. HBO, Oct. 23 at 8.
 
"THE MICHAEL RICHARDS SHOW" Here is NBC's great comedy hope, the first new series starring a "Seinfeld" grad. And what's happened? It has been one stumble after another, not unlike the ones that used to afflict Kramer. Except that those were funny. The original pilot was totally scrapped. No one knows much about the new one except that Mr. Richards is still playing a bumbling detective. He does have co-stars now, including Tim Meadows ("Saturday Night Live") and William Devane ("The Hollow Man"). NBC, Tuesdays at 8, starting Oct. 24.
 
"FREEDOM" More apocalypse mongering from the producer Joel Silver, who hit it big with "The Matrix." Much about this one is "Matrix"-like, including the premise of a resistance unit fighting an evil military elite that has taken over humanity. UPN, Fridays at 8, starting Oct. 27.
 
"LEVEL NINE" Crime fighting goes totally cyber in this hour about a secret group created to fight Internet villains, like hackers who blackmail airlines by threatening to crash airplanes. Created by John Sacret Young ("China Beach"). UPN, Fridays at 9, starting Oct. 27.
 
"FALLING IN LOVE AGAIN" Valerie Bertinelli, who was once in every other TV movie, returns to play a romantic role in another generation: now she's the mom with the teenage children. The kids plot to bring Valerie and Jeffrey Nadling, who plays the dad, back together in a story that is set on a tourist ranch in the wilds of Alaska. CBS in October.
 
"SECOND HONEYMOON" Roma Downey and Tim Matheson star in another movie about a couple that just can't seem to break up. Here the soon-to-be-divorced pair get a surprise 20th-anniversary gift from the family: a tropical vacation. It works wonders. CBS in October.
 
November
 
"NORMAL, OHIO" A troubled comedy that still has a great asset, John Goodman, as star. Mr. Goodman plays a father who happens to be gay; he moves back to his hometown and comedy is meant to ensue. But this is an all-new premise -- a first pilot was totally remade -- so the result is harder to predict than usual. Fox, Wednesdays at 8, starting Nov. 1.
 
* "THE STREET" The true heir to "Sex and the City," because it comes from the same creator, Darren Star. This hour is full of similar steamy touches as it traces the overheated lives, both professional and social, of a group of young Wall Street brokers who are on the make -- in more ways than one. The clothes, the music and the moves are all designed to reveal the male side of the sexual play featured in Mr. Star's HBO hit. Adam Goldberg ("Saving Private Ryan") and Tom Everett Scott ("That Thing You Do") are among the big, talented, attractive cast. Fox, Wednesdays at 9, starting Nov. 1.
 
"TIME TO CHOOSE: AN NPR/PBS VOTER'S GUIDE" National Public Radio and PBS collaborate on a live three-hour broadcast just before election day. Jim Lehrer will be the anchor in Washington, with correspondents from both organizations posted in Atlanta, Chicago, San Francisco and New York interviewing voters, campaign advisers and journalists. NPR and PBS, Nov. 1 at 8 p.m.
 
"STUDIO 360" A weekly one-hour show covering culture, high and low, produced by WNYC and slated for national distribution through Public Radio International beginning in February. Kurt Anderson, the novelist, journalist and co-founder of Inside.com, will be host of a program offering stories and conversation about the world of art, from opera to comic books. WYNC-FM (93.9), starting Nov. 4.
 
"JACQUELINE BOUVIER KENNEDY ONASSIS" Yet another Kennedy family mini-series, of which so many already exist that they could fill their own cable channel. This one promises the whole story of Jackie, in four hours, based on the biography by Donald Spoto. Joanna Whalley, who has one other high-profile television role on her resume ("Scarlett"), here will try to impersonate perhaps the most famous woman of the 20th century. CBS, starting Nov. 5 at 9.
 
* "NAPOLEON" A four-hour documentary biography of the French general and emperor, directed by David Grubin, whose previous films for PBS include "F.D.R.," "L.B.J." and "Truman" in the "American Experience" series. PBS, Nov. 8 and Nov. 15, at 9.
 
"NPR CELEBRATES AARON COPLAND" Marking the 100th anniversary of the composer's birth, National Public Radio will present a series of Copland concerts, talks and documentaries. The centerpiece is a live broadcast and cyber-cast from Coolidge Auditorium at the Library of Congress, where Copland's "Appalachian Spring" was first performed. NPR, starting Nov. 13.
 
* "AMERICAN TRAGEDY: THE UNCENSORED STORY OF THE SIMPSON DEFENSE" Destined to be one of the most talked-about projects of the season, for better or worse, this adaptation of the Lawrence Schiller book has already been threatened with an injunction by new lawyers for O. J. Simpson. It is an account of his defense strategy and the cast of characters includes those familiar names Johnnie Cochran (Ving Rhames), Robert Shapiro (Ron Silver), F. Lee Bailey (Christopher Plummer) and Barry Scheck (Bruno Kirby). Told over four hours -- if no restraining order is issued -- by a production team led by Barry Levinson and Tom Fontana. CBS, Nov. 12 and Nov. 15 at 9.
 
* "AMERICAN EXPERIENCE: RETURN WITH HONOR"A two-and-a-half-hour account of the sufferings and ultimate victories of a group of American airmen shot down in Vietnam and subjected to years of torture before their release. It includes film from the Vietnamese government archives. Introduced by Tom Hanks. PBS, Nov. 13 at 9.
 
"DAG" David Alan Grier is a talented, funny guy, but this is his third try at sitcom success and it's not the charm. Here he plays a bumbling Secret Service agent banished to cover the president's wife (Delta Burke, who may look too much like a certain young lady in a beret for some people's comfort). The idea is to make the comedy extremely broad, but that will require generating a lot more laughs than the pilot did. NBC, Tuesdays at 9:30, starting Nov. 14.
 
"NOVA: HITLER'S LOST SUB" About the 1991 discovery of a sunken World War II U-boat, found only 60 miles off the coast of New Jersey, with its unexploded torpedoes and the bodies of its crew still aboard. The documentary follows the efforts of the diver John Chatterton and his crew to identify and explore the boat, a quest that cost three more lives. PBS, Nov. 14 at 8.
 
"LOOKING FOR LOST BIRD" A story of a woman, adopted as an infant, who searches for her biological parents, discovers they were Navajo and seeks to learn of their culture. Mercedes Ruehl is the star, with Jamey Sheridan as her husband. CBS, Nov. 19 at 9.
 
"THE MOVING OF SOPHIA MYLES" Della Reese of "Touched by an Angel" plays yet another heartwarming role: the widow of a cherished pastor who duels with an evil real estate maven played by Rue McLanahan. CBS, Nov. 26 at 9.
 
"FOR LOVE OR COUNTRY: THE ARTURO SANDOVAL STORY" The story of the brilliant Cuban trumpet player Arturo Sandoval, who refused to defect after the Castro takeover because of his love for a woman, but later did so, with the help of Dizzy Gillespie. Andy Garcia stars in a cast that includes Gloria Estefan and Charles S. Dutton. HBO in November.
 
"GROWING PAINS: THE REUNION"At first glance this seems like a project conjured up solely to get Leonardo DiCaprio into a television movie. But he didn't show up for this reunion, of course, so fans of the series will have to satisfied with Alan Thicke, who did. ABC in November.
 
"IN THE BEGINNING" Religious stories have been unexpected hits in recent years, so why not go right to basics. It's the familar roster, including Adam and Eve, Abraham, Isaac, Joseph and Moses, with a lot of special effects to enhance the telling. Among the interesting casting choices: Martin Landau as Abraham, and Billy Campbell of "Once and Again" as Moses. NBC in November.
 
"IN HIS LIFE: THE JOHN LENNON STORY" A lot of Lennon's early professional life was covered in the feature film "Backbeat," and that R-rated material seems unlikely for a network television movie. This one includes a bit of his troubled childhood, but shifts quickly to his efforts to form a skiffle band, his meeting with a mate named Paul, and so on. NBC in November.
 
"THE MIRACLE WORKER" Yet another version of the famous play, which has already been a television special and a movie. Now it's back to television, almost solely as a vehicle for Hallie Kate Eisenberg, who in her ubiquitous Pepsi commercials has not demonstrated quite the acting depth that this part has pulled out of the likes of Patti Duke. ABC in November.
 
"UNFORGETTABLE: THE NATALIE COLE STORY" A television movie biography of the singer, who endured several rises and falls before her hit "duet" with her dead father. NBC in November.
 
"WIDOWS" Three women with extremely different backgrounds come together after their husbands are killed trying to pull off an art heist. Over four hours, on two days, they team up to search out the killer. Mercedes Ruehl is the middle-class housewife, Brooke Shields is the low-rent actress and Rosie Perez is the used-car saleswoman. Lynda LaPlante, the creator of the great "Prime Suspect" series, also created the original of this story, which was a hit in England. ABC in November.
 
December
 
"THE CHRIS ISAAK SHOW" The singer-songwriter plays himself in a semi-fictional story about a lead singer for a band who is very much like Chris Isaak. The musicians are real; many of the backup characters are not. The show has as much music as comedy. Showtime, starting in December.
 
* "QUEER AS FOLK" In Britain, this brutally frank drama about gay life was a sensation. Rather than simply import it, Showtime decided to make an American version. Pittsburgh steps in to approximate blue-collar Manchester, and Hal Sparks, who was once the host of "Talk Soup," stars as Michael, who is secretly in love with his childhood friend, a drug-addled advertising executive. The show is steeped in character complications, some comedic, some heart-tugging, all fiercely realistic. Showtime, starting in December.
 
"SANTA WHO?" The old guy crashes in New York, of all places, days before Christmas and suffers amnesia. Panicked elves have to hunt him down. Santa falls in with a Christmas-hating reporter and, of course, he lands a job as a department store St. Nick. Will Santa recover his memory in time to save Christmas? Leslie Nielsen, who already has the hair, if not the girth, stars with Tommy Davidson of "Booty Call." ABC in December.
 
January
 
*"JAZZ"Potentially the outstanding program of the television season, the latest series from the much-decorated historical documentarian Ken Burns examines the roots, glories and influences of the one true American art form, with an emphasis on the role of race, in 10 parts over 19 hours. PBS, starting Jan. 23.
 
"BREAKING NEWS" ABC tried to turn sports news into comedy with "Sports Night." This effort turns to real news in a series about a 24-hour news channel where the cranky reporters never go to sleep. It stars Tim Matheson and Rowena King. TNT, starting in January.
 
"NERO WOLFE" The rotund, brilliant detective who never leaves his New York townhouse comes to television, a long while after he became famous as a descendant of Sherlock Holmes. Rex Stout created the character and gave him lots of odd puzzles that he and his legman partner, Archie Goodwin, could solve. Last season's television movie inspired this series, which A&E hopes will snatch up the crowd that loved its Poirot adventures. Maury Chaykin is the portly, orchid-loving Wolfe, with Timothy Hutton doing the hard labor as Archie. Mr. Hutton also did the hard labor of writing and directing. A&E, starting in January.
 
"OZ" A special mid-season edition of the summer hit, serving as the sub for "The Sopranos," which put its third-season premiere off until March. So Tom Fontana stepped in with eight new episodes of his riveting, often brutal prison series. HBO, Sundays at 9, starting in January.
 
March
 
"101 CENTRE STREET" A New York night court is the focus of this series created by the film director Sidney Lumet. The show will be fictional, but Mr. Lumet will try to make it look real by shooting entirely with handheld video cameras. A&E, starting in March.
 
Compiled with the assistance of Anna Bahney.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Richard Butler of the Aryan Nation, center, from "Hate.com: Extremists on the Internet" on HBO in October. (John Sale)
 
Drawings (Steven Guarnaccia)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (53%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: FOX FAMILY CHANNEL (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (53%); MISSOURI, USA (53%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); FILM (85%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); DEATH & DYING (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); TERRORISM (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); OLYMPICS (73%); BASEBALL (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); HOSTAGE TAKING (68%); 

PERSON: KEN BURNS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



208 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 13; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 7140 words

HEADLINE: THE ANNOTATED LIST;
Puppets, the Trojan War And Tallulah Times Three

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:

September
 
"LYPSINKA! THE BOXED SET" Camp and vamp. A show by the lip-synching drag-queen diva John Epperson. Opens tonight. Westbeth Theater. (SmartTix)
 
"HUNCHBACK" The Redmoon Theater of Chicago renders the Victor Hugo classic "The Hunchback of Notre Dame" as a symphony of puppets, masks and costumes. Part of the Henson International Festival of Puppet Theater. Tuesday through next Sunday. Joseph Papp Public Theater/Newman Theater. (Ticket Central) www.hensonfestival.org 

"NIGHT BEHIND THE WINDOWS" A media mix of film, music and puppetry, this eerily atmospheric show by the performance artist Janie Geiser deals, in an elliptical narrative, with the death of a mysterious woman. Is there a limbo between life and afterlife? Part of the Henson International Festival of Puppet Theater. Tuesday through next Sunday. La Mama Experimental Theater Club.
www.hensonfestival.org
 
"DEAD END" "A medium for social betterment that is tremendous and forceful." So raved the noted theater critic Mayor Fiorello La Guardia of New York City in 1935, after seeing the Broadway production of Sidney Kingsley's cautionary tale about the lure of a life of crime, set among teenagers in Depression-era Lower Manhattan. The film starred Humphrey Bogart as the not-to-be-emulated thug. Here he is played by Dominic Fumusa, best known, perhaps, as a pal of the Sopranos. Nicholas Martin directs in his inaugural offering as artistic director of the Huntington Theater in Boston. In previews. Opens Wednesday. (617-266-0800) www.bu.edu/HUNTINGTON
 
"THE BEST MAN" An election-year revival of an election-year (1960) play about an election, it could only be a comic melodrama or risk its credibility. The making of the president, as envisioned by Gore Vidal. A starry cast that includes Charles Durning, Spalding Gray, Chris Noth, Elizabeth Ashley, Christine Ebersole and Michael Learned. Directed by Ethan McSweeny. In previews. Opens next Sunday. Virginia Theater. (Tele-Charge).
 
"THE SYRINGA TREE" A one-woman show by Pamela Gien, who plays 28 characters in a story about a mixed-race household in South Africa under apartheid. In previews. Opens Thursday. Playhouse 91. (Ticketmaster).
 
"A LESSON BEFORE DYING" An adaptation, by Romulus Linney, of the Ernest J. Gaines novel set in Louisiana in the 1940's about the friendship between a man unjustly condemned to die and the schoolteacher who helps him face his fate. Directed by Kent Thompson and featuring Stephen Bradbury, Isaiah Whitlock Jr. and John Henry Redwood. This is the first production of the Signature Theater Company's two-year series of new plays by playwrights to whose work the company has, in the past, devoted whole seasons. In previews. Opens Sept. 17. Peter Norton Space. (244-7529) www.signaturetheatre.org
 
"FOUR GUYS NAMED JOSE . . . AND UNA MUJER NAMED MARIA" Four men -- a Mexican, a Dominican, a Puerto Rican and a Cuban -- try to impress a woman with their renditions of Latin American pop classics, in the process sending up Hispanic stereotypes. A high-energy musical revue, produced by Enrique Iglesias and Dasha Epstein. With Philip Anthony, Henry Gainza, Lissette Gonzalez, Allen Hidalgo and Ricardo Puente. In previews. Opens Sept. 18. Blue Angel Theater. (Tele-Charge)
 
"STOWAWAYS" A performance piece by France's Compagnie Philippe Genty, combining dance and puppetry to create surrealistic stage images. Part of the Henson International Festival of Puppet Theater. Sept. 19-24. Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Ave. (Ticket Central)
 
 "THE BUTTERFLY COLLECTION" Brian Murray is a blocked novelist and Marian Seldes his wife in this drama by Theresa Rebeck about a family in crisis and the young woman, the novelist's new assistant, who is in the middle of it. (The two stars, by the way, will be paired again later in the season in Edward Albee's "Play About the Baby.") Directed by Bartlett Sher ("Waste"). In previews. Opens Oct. 3. Playwrights Horizons.
 
"LIFEGAME" Shy? Keep your head down and your mouth shut or you might end up watching your life unfold in front of strangers. Semi-improvisational theater from an accomplished British troupe, the Improbable Theater; each performance is based on the life story of an audience member. Actually, there's nothing to worry about; the subjects are preselected, and willing. Previews begin Tuesday. Opens Sept. 28. Jane Street Theater. (Tele-Charge)
 
"WHERE DID VINCENT VAN GOGH?" Let's hope the lines are cleverer than the title. A one-man show about an actor, his character (the famous painter) and a space alien, written and performed by Homer Simpson, er, Dan Castellaneta. Previews begin Wednesday. Opens Sept. 20. Chelsea Playhouse. (Ticket Central)
 
"THE BALLAD OF LITTLE JO" Mike Reid, who wrote the score for this new musical, may be the only theater composer ever to have played professional football; he was once a lineman for the Cincinnati Bengals. The book, by Sarah Schlesinger, is set in the American West during the California gold rush and concerns a 17-year-old Boston girl banished by her father after she gives birth out of wedlock. Ugly adventures ensue, then redemption. Previews begin Thursday. Opens Sept. 24. Steppenwolf Theater Company, Chicago.
 
"TANTALUS" This is, as the Greeks might warn, hubris. A retelling of the Trojan War written by John Barton and directed by Sir Peter Hall, this collaboration between the Denver Center Theater Company and London's Royal Shakespeare Company is the world premiere of a 10-play cycle, 15 years in development, 10 1/2 hours in performance. Will it launch 1,000 revivals? Previews begin Friday. Opens Oct. 21. Through Dec. 2. Denver Performing Arts Complex. (800-641-1222) www.denvercenter.org
 
"THE IN-GATHERING" The premiere of an Off Broadway musical set in post-Civil War America, about an emancipated slave in search of the wife from whom he was separated when she was sold. The book is by John Henry Redwood ("The Old Settler"), the music by Daryl Waters ("Bring In da Noise, Bring In da Funk"), and the cast will have at least one big voice: that of Anne Duquesnay. Choreographed by Hope Clarke ("Jelly's Last Jam"), who also directs. The inaugural production of a new theater on West 42nd Street. Opens Sept. 19. The Duke on 42nd Street. (Tele-Charge)
 
"TALLULAH HALLELUJAH!" Old divas never die, they reincarnate on the stage. This season features three shows based on the life of Tallulah Bankhead. This one is a solo performance with music, set in 1956 and starring Tovah Feldshuh, who also wrote the script (with Larry Amoros and Linda Selman), which has the stage and film star standing in for Ella Fitzgerald as the headliner of a benefit for the U.S.O. Previews begin Sept. 19. Opens Oct. 10. Douglas Fairbanks Theater. (Tele-Charge)
 
"THE BUNGLER" An early Moliere comedy, rarely if ever presented in the United States, in a new verse translation by Richard Wilbur. Directed by Doug Hughes. Previews begin Sept. 20. Opens Sept. 27. Long Wharf Theater, New Haven.
 
"THE BEGINNING OF AUGUST" Ah, family. In this new play by Tom Donaghy ("Northeast Local"), a man's wife abruptly departs, leaving him to forge a new home life involving his infant daughter, his stepmother, a house painter and a neighbor. Wouldn't you know it? The wife comes back. Directed by Neil Pepe. With Mary Steenburgen, Mary McCann, Ray Anthony Williams and Garret Dillahunt. Previews begin Sept. 27. Atlantic Theater Company.
 
"STRANGER" In this new play by Craig Lucas ("Prelude to a Kiss"), a man and a woman, one of them a recently released felon, meet on a plane. Starring Kyra Sedgwick and David Strathairn. Directed by Mark Brokaw ("How I Learned to Drive"). Previews begin Sept. 27. Vineyard Theater. (353-0303) www.
vineyardtheatre.org
 
* "THE FULL MONTY" With its setting shifted from Sheffield, England, to Buffalo, N.Y., this musical adaptation of the surprise hit film about unemployed millworkers who decide to strip to make a quick buck lands on Broadway after a sold-out run at the Old Globe Theater in San Diego. Terrence McNally wrote the book, toughening up those sweetheart characters for an American audience; a newcomer, David Yazbek, wrote the score, which has some sock. Jack O'Brien directs. Previews begin Sept. 26. Opens Oct. 26. Eugene O'Neill Theater. (Tele-Charge)
 
"TEXTS FOR NOTHING" The marvelously serious clown Bill Irwin, directing and performing in a one-man show that is adapted from the prose works of Samuel Beckett. If this sounds familiar, it's because Mr. Irwin first took on the material at the Joseph Papp Public Theater in 1991. Previews begin Sept. 28. Opens Oct. 15. Classic Stage Company.
 
"DOLL" Theater Couture, which specializes in campy and far-fetched send-ups of popular culture (its last production, "Tell-Tale" in 1997, took on Edgar Allan Poe and B-movies), steps a little out of character here with its version of the Ibsen classic "A Doll's House." Starring Sherry Vine (a k a Keith Levy), one assumes, as Nora. Previews begin Sept. 29. Opens. Oct. 5. P.S. 122, 150 First Ave., at 9th Street. (477-5288) www.ps122.org
 
"ARABIAN NIGHTS" An adaptation for children, by London's Young Vic Theater Company, of the legend of Scheherazade, the brave enchantress who distracts a wrathful king with seductive stories. Opens Sept. 29. New Victory Theater, 209 W. 42nd Street. (Through Friday, 563-2266; from Saturday, 382-4020) www.newvictory.org
 
October
 
"THOROUGHLY MODERN MILLIE" A new musical in a pre-Broadway run (well, the producers have their fingers crossed) based on the 1967 film about women in the jazz age. Starring Erin Dilly as Millie (tabloid headline writers: n.b.), Tonya Pinkins and Pat Carroll. Directed by Michael Mayer. With music from the movie and additional songs by Jeanine Tesori. Previews begin Oct. 3. Opens Oct. 15. La Jolla Playhouse, Calif. (858-550-1010) www.lajollaplayhouse.com
 
"THE DINNER PARTY" Neil Simon rides again; his first new play on Broadway since "Laughter on the 23rd Floor" is a six-hander involving marriage and divorce, aging and French food. The cast includes the television veterans John Ritter and Henry Winkler and the Broadway veterans Len Cariou, Veanne Cox, Penny Fuller and Jan Maxwell. Previews begin Oct. 3. Opens Oct. 19. Music Box Theater. (Tele-Charge)
 
"WAR OF THE WORLDS" The auteur gets the auteur treatment: a stage biography of Orson Welles that examines Welles in the manner in which Welles examined William Randolph Hearst in "Citizen Kane." Conceived and directed by the avant-garde veteran Anne Bogart. Oct. 4-8. Next Wave Festival, Brooklyn Academy of Music.
 
"OEDIPUS REX" Grecophiles, alert! A production of Sophocles' tragedy by the 100-year-old National Theater of Greece, in modern Greek (with English supertitles). Directed by Vassilis Papavasiliou, with Grigoris Valtinos in the title role. This summer the production was presented in the Colosseum in Rome, the first show seen by an audience there in 1,500 years -- no kidding, not since lions were dispatching gladiators and ostensibly vice versa. Performances are Oct. 4-8 at City Center, not so historical but a nice place. (City Tix)
 
"GAME SHOW" Be forewarned: Set during the broadcast of a game show, this play by Jeffrey Finn and Bob Walton uses audience members as contestants. Previews begin Oct. 10. Opens Oct. 25. 45 Bleecker Street. (Ticketmaster)
 
"BIG POTATO" A Third Reich officer is discovered hiding in a Queens beauty parlor; this comedy by Arthur Laurents, produced by the Jewish Repertory Theater, sounds a bit like "Judgment at Nuremberg" meets "All in the Family." Previews begin Oct. 14. Opens Oct. 22. The Duke on 42nd Street. (831-2001)
 
* "THE UNEXPECTED MAN" This one should create ample buzz, particularly for an Off Broadway show. To begin with, Alan Bates is making his first New York stage appearance since he won a Tony Award in Simon Gray's "Butley" almost 30 years ago. Opposite him, no slouch herself, is Eileen Atkins. The two play, respectively, a writer and literary fan who meet on a train. The director is Matthew Warchus, who directed last season's "True West" and the Tony winner of the year before, "Art," by Yasmina Reza, who, not incidentally, is the author of this one as well. Previews begin Oct. 10. Opens Oct. 24. Promenade Theater. (Tele-Charge)
 
* "PROOF" The Broadway premiere of last season's Off Broadway hit about mathematics, love and the nature of genius. Written by David Auburn and starring the estimable Mary-Louise Parker as a young woman who seems to know everything except how smart and sexy she is. With Larry Bryggman as her father. Directed by Daniel Sullivan. Chicagoans: note the perfect back-porch set by John Lee Beatty. Previews begin Oct. 10. Opens Oct. 24. Walter Kerr Theater. (Tele-Charge)
 
"THE TALE OF THE ALLERGIST'S WIFE" Two Broadway transfers in the same week is quite a coup for the Manhattan Theater Club, which last season presented "Proof" and this comedy by Charles Busch about a witty and whiny woman (Linda Lavin) who lives on the West Side and is afraid life is passing her by. Enter her childhood friend. Oy! Also starring Tony Roberts and Michele Lee. Directed by Lynne Meadow. Previews begin Oct. 11. Opens Nov. 2. Ethel Barrymore Theater. (Tele-Charge)
 
"NOCTURNE" The debut of a highly touted young playwright, Adam Rapp; his play is about a teenager who accidentally kills his sister, and the tragedy's lingering effect on the family. Previews begin Oct. 12. Opens Oct. 15. American Repertory Theater, Cambridge, Mass. (617-547-8300) www.amrep.org
 
"LES MIZRAHI" A new series of cabaret performances presented by the Off Broadway company the Drama Dept. is inaugurated by the fashion designer Isaac Mizrahi, who sings, dances and sews, accompanied by the Ben Waltzer Trio. Mr. Mizrahi, not surprisingly, designed the sets and costumes. Previews begin Oct. 13. Opens Oct. 19. Greenwich House Theater. (Tele-Charge) www.dramadept.com
 
"MATTERS OF THE HEART" An evening with Patti LuPone, accompanied by piano and string quartet. Vivian Beaumont Theater at Lincoln Center. Selected Sundays and Mondays beginning Oct. 15. (Tele-Charge)
 
"SEUSSICAL" Even if you do not like green eggs and ham, you might be curious. David Shiner as the Cat in the Hat -- they have the same neck, after all -- seems reason enough to look forward to this musical adaptation of the work of the famously lyrical children's author a k a Theodor Seuss Geisel. Kevin Chamberlin portrays Horton the Elephant. Directed by Frank Galati, with a score by Stephen Flaherty and Lynn Ahrens, all of whom collaborated on "Ragtime." Choreographed by Kathleen Marshall. Previews begin Oct. 15. Opens Nov. 9. Richard Rodgers Theater. (Ticketmaster) A related article is on Page 4.
 
"FORBIDDEN BROADWAY 2001: A SPOOF ODYSSEY" A new edition of the long-running (18 years!) satire. Opens Oct. 20. Stardust Theater (inside Ellen's Stardust Diner), 1651 Broadway at 51st Street. (Tele-Charge)
 
"MAQUINA HAMLET" Known in English as "Hamlet Machine," this 1997 play was written by the German playwright and director Heiner Muller, who imagined Hamlet witnessing the crumbling of the Berlin Wall. The production, however, is by a Buenos Aires troupe, El Periferico de Objetos, and features photo projections, disembodied voices and puppets -- and echoes of the politics of Argentina. Oct. 18-21. Next Wave Festival. Brooklyn Academy of Music. Harvey Theater.
 
"DAHLING!" Tallulah II. The life and loves of Lady Bankhead as envisioned in a play by Nan Schmid, with 55 characters portrayed by eight actors. Previews begin Oct. 19. Opens Oct. 26. Grove Street Playhouse. (358-5812)
 
"THE ROCKY HORROR SHOW" No dress code. A revival of the campy stage musical that became a cult film classic, it arrives with an intriguing cast -- Joan Jett and Dick Cavett, plus the Broadway veterans Lea DeLaria, Alice Ripley, Jarrod Emick, Daphne Rubin-Vega -- and, one would assume, a core audience of predisposed enthusiasts. Previews begin Oct. 20. Opens Nov. 15. Circle in the Square. (Tele-Charge)
 
"BARRIO BABIES" A musical satire by Luis Santeiro and Fernando Rivas about the stereotyping of Latinos in Hollywood. Previews begin Oct. 21. Opens Nov. 12. John Houseman Theater. (Tele-Charge)
 
"COMIC POTENTIAL" The American premiere of a show-biz black comedy by Alan Ayckbourn set in a future world where robots and film actors are difficult to tell apart. Previews begin Oct. 24. Opens Nov. 16. Manhattan Theater Club.
 
"ALICE IN BED" Susan Sontag's only play is based on the life of Alice James (sister of the writer Henry and the philosopher William), and has never before been seen in New York. Directed by Ivo van Hove. Previews begin Oct. 25. Opens Nov. 5. New York Theater Workshop.
 
"FAME TAKES A HOLIDAY" A play, with music, about comedians on the verge of fame. Written by Cassandra Danz and Mary Fulham, two members of the troupe High-Heeled Women, whose routines are featured in the show, and Warren Leight, the author of the Tony-winning play "Sideman." With original music by Tracey Berg, Dick Gallagher, Cliff Korman and Marc Shaiman. Opens Oct. 26. La Mama Experimental Theater Club.
 
"TOKYO NOTES" The Seinen-dan Theater Company of Tokyo performs a play by Oriza Hirata about the values of contemporary Japan. Written in 1995, it is set in 2004, during a war in Europe, in the lobby of a Japanese art museum that has been receiving great works from European museums for safekeeping. In Japanese, with English supertitles. Oct. 26-28. Japan Society. 333 E. 47th Street. (752-3015) www.jpnsoc.com
 
"COBB" With the aid of a surprising angel -- Kevin Spacey -- Lee Blessing's estimable stage biography of the legendary ballplayer and misanthrope Ty Cobb, produced last season by Melting Pot Theater, not only got a reprieve from an early closing, it is being reprised Off Broadway. Directed by Joe Brancato. With Michael Cullen, Matthew Mabe, Michael Sabatino and Clark Jackson. Previews begin in late October. Lucille Lortel Theater. (Tele-Charge)
 
November
 
"RICHARD III" The resident classical theater company brings Shakespeare's evil hunchback to the East Village. Opens Nov. 2. Pearl Theater Company. (598-9802) www.pearltheatre.org
 
* "THE LATE HENRY MOSS" And now, the award for starriest production of the season: Woody Harrelson, Sean Penn, Nick Nolte, Cheech Marin and James Gammon in a new play about brothers, a larger-than-life father and the mythical American frontier by -- guess who? -- Sam Shepard, who also directs. Previews begin Nov. 7. Opens Nov. 14. Magic Theater, San Francisco. (415-441-8822) www.magictheatre.org
 
"JANE EYRE" Who's that singing in the attic? A musical based on the Charlotte Bronte novel. The music and lyrics are by a pop composer new to the theater, Paul Gordon, but there are some substantial pedigrees involved as well. The book is by John Caird ("Les Miserables"), who directs (with Scott Schwartz), and the set design is by John Napier ("Les Miz," "Cats," "Miss Saigon"). With Marla Schaffel as Jane and James Barbour as Mr. Rochester. Previews begin Nov. 7. Opens Dec. 3. Brooks Atkinson Theater. (Ticketmaster)
 
"REQUIEM FOR SREBRENICA" Conceived by the French director Olivier Py from a compilation of documents and testimony, this theater piece for three women is a response to the July 1995 massacre of thousands of Bosnian Muslims by Serbians engaged in ethnic cleansing. Nov. 8-11. Next Wave Festival. Brooklyn Academy of Music. Harvey Theater.
 
"GOLDEN BOY" A semi-revival, semi-adaptation -- a revisal? -- of the 1964 musical about a Harlem boxer. The composer, Charles Strouse, has written new songs to complement his original score, and the book (originally by Clifford Odets and William Gibson) has been given a contemporary skew by Keith Glover, who directs. Previews begin Nov. 8. Opens Nov. 15. Long Wharf Theater, New Haven.
 
"OLD MONEY" Quite a year for Wendy Wasserstein -- first a new baby, now a new play. The latter is a meditation on the history of manners in 20th-century New York, concerning an elderly historian who attends a party in the East Side mansion where he grew up, now occupied by a hedge fund analyst. But when did she have time to write it? Starring John Cullum. Directed by Mark Brokaw. Previews begin Nov. 9. Opens Dec. 7. Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater. Lincoln Center.
 
* "ARSENIC AND OLD LACE" Voices!, a new series of one-night-only staged readings of rarely revived plays -- in the manner of the Encores! musical series -- begins on Nov. 11 with Joseph Kesselring's macabre comedy from 1941 about two sweet and murderous old ladies. Alec Baldwin stars as their nephew, the role played by Cary Grant in Frank Capra's 1944 film adaptation. Mr. Baldwin is producing the season of readings, which will include "Little Murders," Jules Feiffer's black comedy (Jan. 30), and "The Devil and Daniel Webster" by Stephen Vincent Benet (March 13). City Center. (City Tix)
 
"THE SEARCH FOR SIGNS OF INTELLIGENT LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE" Fifteen years after their first visit to Broadway, Trudy, the bag lady who talks to space aliens; Agnus Angst, the teenage performance artist; and Chrissy, the eager if misguided human potential devotee, are back in the person of Lily Tomlin. A one-woman show, written and directed by Jane Wagner, that will make early fall stops in Seattle and Princeton, N.J. Previews begin Nov. 11. Opens Nov. 16. Booth Theater. (Tele-Charge)
 
"BOOK OF THE DEAD (SECOND AVENUE)" A performance treatise on spirituality by the music-theater artist John Moran. The title refers to two of the show's settings -- ancient Egypt and modern New York City. Previews begin Nov. 14. Joseph Papp Public Theater, Martinson Hall.
 
"MAMMA MIA!" A huge hit in London and Toronto, this is the first American appearance of the musical about a girl searching for her father on the eve of her wedding, set to the music of the Swedish pop band Abba. Opens Nov. 15. Orpheum Theater, San Francisco. (415-512-7770)
 
"TINY ALICE" Edward Albee's allegorical play about an emissary of the church who is sent to negotiate the terms of a mammoth gift from the world's richest woman. Richard Thomas, as the emissary (in a role first played in 1964 by John Gielgud), teams up once again with the director Mark Lamos; the two joined forces in a Hartford Stage production of the play in 1998. Previews begin Nov. 16. Second Stage.
 
* "JESUS HOPPED THE A TRAIN" A tough and lyrical prison drama by a young writer, Stephen Adly Guirgis. This production, by the tiny Labyrinth Theater Company, had an overflow word-of-mouth crowd for 10 days of workshop performances this summer, and it now has independent backing for a commercial run. Directed by Philip Seymour Hoffman, who gets crackling performances from a cast that includes John Ortiz, Ron Cephas-Jones and Elizabeth Canavan. Previews begin Nov. 21. Opens Nov. 28. At the Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street. Ticket information to be announced.
 
"A DREAM PLAY" The theatrical surrealist Robert Wilson turns to August Strindberg's complex and mystical work from 1901, which traces the education of a Hindu goddess about human life on earth. Nov. 28-Dec. 3. Next Wave Festival. Brooklyn Academy of Music. Howard Gilman Opera House.
 
"BETRAYAL" What sounds like a sexy revival of Harold Pinter's backwards-in-time-moving drama about the disintegration of a marriage. Starring Liev Schreiber, Juliette Binoche and John Slattery. Directed by David Leveaux. Opening date to be announced. Roundabout Theater Company. American Airlines Theater. (719-1300) www.
roundabouttheatre.org
 
"THE PLAY ABOUT THE BABY" Edward Albee's most recent work concerns two couples, an older and a younger, and an infant who may or may not exist. Sound familiar? If a production later this season of "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?," directed by Robert Falls, makes its way from the Goodman Theater in Chicago to Broadway (as is the hope), New York stages will have a provocative set of Albee bookends. "Baby" will land off Broadway, in a theater to be announced, and its opening date could fall anywhere between November and February. David Esbjornson will direct, and when they finish with their first play together this fall (see "The Butterfly Collection"), Marian Seldes and Brian Murray will star.
 
December
 
"THE WAX" A wedding at a seaside hotel, with writers and scientists as the randy guests. This new bedroom farce by Kathleen Tolan is directed by David Petrarca, who, in the deliciously nutty "Fuddy Meers" last year, showed he has a deft touch with whimsy. Previews begin Dec. 12. Opens Jan. 7. Playwrights Horizons.
 
"FORCE CONTINUUM" The Atlantic Theater Company commissioned this play by Kia Corthron about a three-generation family of black cops in which the youngest member is both accused of and victimized by police brutality. Previews begin Dec. 13. Opens Jan 4, 2001.
 
January
 
"HUMAN EVENTS" A barbed observer of Yankee pretense, A. R. Gurney puts a skewer to the academy in this play set in the stodgy humanities department of a small New England college. Directed by David Saint. Opens Jan. 6. George Street Playhouse, New Brunswick, N.J.
 
"TIME AND AGAIN" The second full production (the first was at the Old Globe Theater in San Diego in 1996) of a musical based on Jack Finney's atmospheric fantasy novel from 1970 -- part mystery, part romance and very New York -- about a time-traveling advertising illustrator. Book by Jack Viertel, music and lyrics by Walter Edgar Kennon. Directed by Susan Schulman ("The Red Shoes"). With Laura Benanti ("Swing!") and Julia Murney ("The Wild Party," Off Broadway version). Previews begin Jan. 9. Opens Jan. 30. Manhattan Theater Club Stage II.
 
"OEDIPUS THE KING" A new adaptation set in contemporary urban Africa by Adrienne Kennedy. Directed by Jonathan Wilson. Previews begin Jan. 11. Hartford Stage.
 
"DIDO, QUEEN OF CARTHAGE" The idiosyncratic Target Margin Theater, as is its wont, unearths a rarely performed work. This Elizabethan drama, by Christopher Marlowe, is based on the Greek myth of Dido and Aeneas and set on the Mediterranean in northern Africa. Directed by David Herskovits. Previews begin Jan. 17. Opens Jan. 24. Ohio Theater, 66 Wooster Street. (358-3657)
 
"CELLINI" An appealing match: a stage biography of the egomaniacal Florentine sculptor by John Patrick Shanley ("Danny and the Deep Blue Sea," the film "Moonstruck"), who generally has a good time with florid passions. Previews begin Jan 23. Second Stage.
 
"THE RHYTHM CLUB" Good luck, boys. The composer, Matthew Sklar, is 26; the book writer and lyricist, Chad Beguelin, is 30, remarkably young to have created a Broadway musical. Particularly striking is the fact that it is not a contemporary story, and not based on a contemporary musical idiom. Set in Germany in the 1930's, it tells the tale of two swing musicians, one gentile, one Jewish, and the female singer they hire to front their band. Sex, religion, the Holocaust -- that's enough conflict for any musical. Directed by Eric Schaeffer ("Putting It Together"), the artistic director of the Signature Theater in Arlington, Va., where it is being staged now. Its pre-Broadway run at the Ford Center for the Performing Arts in Chicago begins Dec. 9. Previews begin Jan. 26 at a Broadway theater to be announced. Opens Feb. 15.
 
* "BOY GETS GIRL" Sex and the city, not-so-glamorous division, from Rebecca Gilman, the author of the recent "Spinning Into Butter." After an unpromising blind date, a young woman is stalked by the hopeful young man, whose unwillingness to take no for an answer grows increasingly threatening. Previews begin Jan. 30. Opens Feb. 20. Manhattan Theater Club.
 
"JUDGMENT AT NUREMBERG" Abby Mann's stage adaptation of his own screenplay and teleplay about the Nuremberg war trials. Directed by John Tillinger. The first production this season by Tony Randall's National Actors Theater. Date to be announced.
 
February
 
"DAVID COPPERFIELD" Granted, the title character is a bit of a drip, but the poisonously creepy Uriah Heep and the gentle incompetent Mr. Micawber should provide great fodder for the stage. Plus, every eighth-grade teacher in America will bring the class. Adapted and directed by Giles Havergal. Previews begin Feb. 1. Opens Feb. 11. Steppenwolf Theater Company, Chicago.
 
"RASHOMON" The Pan Asian Repertory Theater revives the 1959 drama by Fay and Michael Kanin (based on the sterling film of 1951 by Akira Kurosawa), about a violent encounter in the woods involving a samurai, his wife and a bandit -- and their conflicting perspectives on the events. Performances begin Feb. 8. The West End Theater at the Church of St. Paul and St. Andrew, 263 West 86th Street. 212-505-5655.
 
 * "LOBBY HERO" Kenneth Lonergan is staking a claim as the playwright laureate of New York City. After two recent successes -- "This Is Our Youth," set on the Upper West Side, and "The Waverly Gallery," in Greenwich Village -- he now adds a third contemporary urban drama, about two policemen and a security guard and his supervisor who encounter one another in an apartment house lobby after a murder. Previews begin Feb. 16. Opens March 13. Playwrights Horizons.
 
"WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA WOOLF?" Like Arthur Miller, Edward Albee is seeing his past work resurface with a vengeance even as he continues to produce new plays. This revival of his 1962 masterpiece, set on a college campus, about a bitterly hostile professor and his wife and their unsuspecting young pair of dinner guests, is uncast as yet, but the director is David Esbjornson, who directed Mr. Miller's "Ride Down Mount Morgan" on Broadway and is scheduled to direct Mr. Albee's "Play About the Baby" off Broadway this season as well. This is likely to be the third major regional production of "Virginia Woolf" this season, following one at Trinity Rep in Providence in the fall and one at the Goodman Theater in Chicago in January. (The Goodman production, to be directed by Robert Falls and possibly starring Patti LuPone, was teetering on the brink of confirmation at press time.) Previews begin Feb. 24. Opens March 2. Guthrie Theater, Minneapolis. (877-447-8243). www.guthrietheater.org
 
"I WILL BEAR WITNESS"The premiere of an adaptation of the diaries of Victor Klemperer, a German Jew, kept during 12 years of the Third Reich. This is a solo performance by George Bartenieff, who, with Karen Malpede, adapted the stunningly detailed diaries, which were published for the first time in English just a year ago. Previews begin Feb. 25. Opens March 11. Classic Stage Company.
 
"BIG LOVE" The playwright Charles Mee takes a fable by Aeschylus about 50 sisters promised in marriage against their will to 50 brothers, and turns it into a virulent battle of the sexes. In its premiere production in the spring, at the Humana Festival of New American Plays in Louisville, it was so physical for the actors that it was staged on an enormous wrestling mat. Previews begin Feb. 28. Opens March 7. Long Wharf Theater.
 
"DOGEATERS" Jessica Hagedorn adapts her own novel of reminiscence about life under Ferdinand Marcos in the Philippines in the 1980's. Directed by Michael Greif ("Rent"). Joseph Papp Public Theater. Opening date to be announced.
 
March
 
"COYOTE BUILDS NORTH AMERICA" Tales of sex and heroism from Native American myths, based on stories by the writer Barry Lopez, adapted and set to music by John Luther Adams. Part of the 50th-anniversary season of the Arena Stage in Washington. Previews begin March 2. (202-488-3300)
 
* "FOLLIES" This goes in the high expectations department: the first Broadway revival of the Stephen Sondheim-James Goldman musical since it opened in 1971. The show, which tells the story of a reunion of dancers in the crumbling theater where they once performed, has one of Mr. Sondheim's most pungent and best-loved scores; the show won seven Tony Awards -- and flopped financially. A very of-the-moment creative pair, Matthew Warchus ("True West") and Kathleen Marshall ("Kiss Me, Kate"), will, respectively, direct and choreograph, filling legendary shoes (Harold Prince's and Michael Bennett's) from the legendary original. Presented by the Roundabout Theater Company. Previews begin March 6. Opens April 5. Belasco Theater. (719-1300) www.roundabouttheatre.org
 
"TEN UNKNOWNS" Jon Robin Baitz ("The Substance of Fire") is drawn to collisions between artistic high-mindedness and real-world morality. His new play is about an octogenarian painter living in Mexico as a recluse and several unexpected visitors. Directed by Daniel Sullivan. Previews begin March 8. Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater. Lincoln Center.
 
"TUVA OR BUST!" Alan Alda portrays the iconoclastic physicist Richard Feynman in a new play by Peter Parnell, directed by Gordon Davidson. Previews begin March 11. Opens March 22. Mark Taper Forum, Los Angeles. (213-628-2772)
 
* "THE PRODUCERS" Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick are on the wish list to star as the lovably, ineptly corrupt theater producers Max Bialystock and Leo Bloom, in this stage adaptation of Mel Brooks's film (with Zero Mostel and Gene Wilder) about a show that is supposed to flop -- and doesn't. Mr. Brooks wrote the book as well as the score, which of course includes the title song of the doomed-to-succeed musical-within-the-musical, "Springtime for Hitler." Susan Stroman choreographs and directs. Previews expected to begin in late March. St. James Theater (Tele-Charge)
 
"THE AMEN CORNER" A revival of James Baldwin's 1954 play, set in Harlem, about jazz, faith and family. Directed by Chuck Smith. Previews begin March 16. Opens March 26. Goodman Theater, Chicago.
 
"THE INVENTION OF LOVE" The New York premiere of Tom Stoppard's play about the poet A. E. Housman in confrontation, at the end of his life, with his youthful self. Presented on Broadway by Lincoln Center Theater. Directed by Jack O'Brien ("The Full Monty," Mr. Stoppard's "Hapgood"). Cast, theater and opening date to be announced.
 
"TOP DOG/UNDERDOG" A black family with brothers named Lincoln and Booth; such is the barbed comic perspective of the playwright Suzan-Lori Parks ("In the Blood"), teaming up here with a director, Charles S. Dutton, who is not likely to shy away from wicked wit. Joseph Papp Public Theater. Date to be announced.
 
"BRIGHTON BEACH MEMOIRS" A Broadway revival of the first volume of Neil Simon's autobiographical trilogy, set in Brooklyn in 1937. A search is on for the next Matthew Broderick, who played the 15-year-old Eugene (read: Neil) in the original 1983 production. Directed by Jerry Zaks ("Laughter on the 23rd Floor"). Date and theater to be announced.
 
* "STONES IN HIS POCKETS" This two-handed comedy by a Belfast playwright, Marie Jones, has been a crowd-pleasing hit in London, largely because the unheralded actors -- Conleth Hill and Sean Campion -- are so marvelously facile in portraying more than a dozen characters: the Irish extras hired for a Hollywood movie, and the presumptuous Americans who invade their home turf. Theater and date to be announced.
 
April
 
"TROILUS AND CRESSIDA" It seems Sir Peter Hall can't get enough of the Trojan War. After mounting John Barton's 10-play "Tantalus" in the fall, he takes on Shakespeare's tragedy, directing off Broadway for the first time in a long career in a production by the Theater for a New Audience. Previews begin April 1. Opens April 3. American Place Theater. (Tele-Charge) www.tfana.org
 
"CRIMES OF THE HEART" Cross-cultural dysfunction! The stage adventures of Beth Henley's nutty Mississippi sisters won the author the Pulitzer Prize in 1981. They are being directed this time by the Irish director Garry Hynes, whose handling of Martin McDonagh's play "The Beauty Queen of Leenane," with its viciously curdled Irish stage family, won her a Tony Award in 1999. Performances begin April 3. Second Stage.
 
"KIMBERLY AKIMBO" David Lindsay-Abaire, whose pleasantly cockeyed comedy "Fuddy Meers" was one of last season's great surprises, returns with a tale about another loopy family -- they live in Teaneck, N.J. -- some of whose members are oddly afflicted, semi-drunk and/or criminally inclined. Kimberly is the 16-year-old daughter, poor kid. Previews begin April 6. Opens April 13. South Coast Repertory Theater, Costa Mesa, Calif. (714-708-5555) www.scr.org
 
"CLAUDIA LAZLO" The indefatigable Arthur Laurents, who knows something about what goes on backstage, checks in with a backstage drama about a domineering, passionate diva. Or is that redundant? Starring Cigdem Onat, the Turkish actress so well received last season as the pension owner in Lincoln Center Theater's revival of Mr. Laurents's "Time of the Cuckoo." Opens April 21. George Street Playhouse, New Brunswick, N.J.
 
"TOM SAWYER" A new musical based on the Mark Twain classic, with music by Don Schlitz (a country songwriter best known for the Kenny Rogers hit "The Gambler") and a book by Ken Ludwig ("Crazy for You," "Lend Me a Tenor"). Directed by Scott Ellis. Who knows? Broadway opening on April 26. Theater to be announced.
 
"THE SEAGULL" Chekhov's play, adapted by Regina Taylor ("Oo-Bla-Dee"), set in the Gullah Islands, off the coast of South Carolina. Previews begin April 27. Opens May 7. Goodman Theater, Chicago.
 
"A THOUSAND CLOWNS" Does anyone else but that lovable old eccentric Tom Selleck come to mind to play the lovable old eccentric Murray Burns? Well, maybe. Nonetheless, Mr. Selleck has signed on to make his Broadway debut in a revival of Herb Gardner's 1962 comedy about a nonconformist who drops out of the workaday world to raise his nephew. Theater and opening date to be announced.
 
 * "KING HEDLEY II" The latest installment of August Wilson's lyrical, decade-by-decade probing of the 20th-century black American experience takes place in Pittsburgh in 1985, among the urban poor. Directed by Marion McClinton, whose superb Off Broadway production of Mr. Wilson's "Jitney" transfers to the Union Square Theater on Sept. 19. "King Hedley II" has been in development in productions in Boston and Seattle, and will make stops in Chicago and Los Angeles before arriving in New York. Theater and opening date to be announced.
 
"BELLS ARE RINGING" "Just in Time" -- for the Tony deadline. Faith Prince stars as the answering-service operator who falls in love with a client -- a playwright, of course -- in the first Broadway revival of the 1956 musical by Jule Styne, Adolph Green and Betty Comden. Tina Landau ("Floyd Collins") makes her Broadway debut as director. Jeff Calhoun ("Annie Get your Gun") choreographs. Opens late April. Theater to be announced.
 
"TALLULAH" And once again, ladies and gentlemen, Miss Bankhead. A one-woman play by Sandra Ryan Heyward starring Kathleen Turner as the flamboyant actress on a night in 1947 as she plays hostess at a party for President Harry S. Truman. A multi-city pre-Broadway tour ends in Columbus, Ohio, on March 11. Broadway theater and date to be announced.
 
"HOMEBODY/KABUL" Information is scarce about this new play by Tony Kushner ("Angels in America"), but New York Theater Workshop claims it will present it beginning in late April or early May.
 
May
 
"SORROWS AND REJOICINGS" Two women -- one white, one black -- in love with the same man. The South African playwright Athol Fugard revisits his homeland again in the wake of apartheid; he also directs. Opens May 1. McCarter Theater, Princeton, N.J. (888-278-7932) www.mccarter.org
 
"WONDER OF THE WORLD" Yet another cache of idiosyncrasies from David Lindsay-Abaire ("Fuddy Meers," "Kimberly Akimbo"), the play is set in Niagara Falls and involves a young woman, an alcoholic bent on suicide, a sea captain and a large jar of peanut butter. Manhattan Theater Club. Previews begin May 1. Opens May 22.
 
"CHAUCER IN ROME" A new play by John Guare ("House of Blue Leaves," "Six Degrees of Separation") about Americans in Rome at the end of the millennium. Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater. Lincoln Center. Previews begin May 10. Opens June 7.
 
"THE GENERAL FROM AMERICA" Corin Redgrave plays Benedict Arnold in a new historical drama by Richard Nelson ("Goodnight Children Everywhere," "Some Americans Abroad") about the most famous defection in American history. Directed by the playwright. Opens May 18. Alley Theater, Houston. (713-228-8421) www.alleytheatre.com
 
June
 
"IN THE PENAL COLONY" Maybe wonderful, definitely weird. A music-theater piece by Philip Glass based on the Kafka story and directed by JoAnne Akalaitis. With earlier stops at A Contemporary Theater in Seattle and the Court Theater in Chicago. Previews begin June 7. Opens June 14. Classic Stage Company.
 
Numbers
 
CITY TIX 212-581-1212
www.citycenter.org
 
SMARTTIX 212-206-1515
www.smarttix.com
 
TELE-CHARGE 212-239-6200
www.telecharge.com
 
TICKET CENTRAL 212-279-4200
www.ticketcentral.org
 
TICKETMASTER 212-307-4100
www.ticketmaster.com
 
Places
 
ATLANTIC THEATER COMPANY 212-239-6200
336 W. 20th St., Chelsea.
www.atlantictheater.com
 
BROOKLYN ACADEMY OF MUSIC 718-636-4100
30 Lafayette Ave., at Ashland Pl.
www.bam.org
 
CLASSIC STAGE COMPANY 212-677-4210
136 E. 13th St., Union Square.
www.nytheatre.com/nytheatre
/classic.htm
 
GEORGE STREET PLAYHOUSE 732-246-7717
Livingston Ave., New Brunswick, N.J. www.georgestplayhouse.org
 
GOODMAN THEATER 312-443-3800
200 S. Columbus Dr., Chicago, Ill. www.goodman-theatre.org
 
HARTFORD STAGE 860-527-5151
50 Church St., Hartford.
www.hartfordstage.org
 
LA MAMA EXPERIMENTAL THEATER CLUB 212-475-7710
74A E. Fourth St. www.lamama.org

LONG WHARF THEATER 203-787-4282
222 Sargent Dr., New Haven.
www.longwharf.org
 
MANHATTAN THEATER CLUB 212-581-1212
City Center, 131 W. 55th St.
www.mtc-nyc.org
 
MITZI E. NEWHOUSE THEATER 212-239-6200
Lincoln Center. www.lincolncenter.org
 
NEW YORK THEATER WORKSHOP 212-460-5475
79 E. Fourth St.
newyork.citysearch.com/E/V
/NYCNY/0001/26/72/
 
JOSEPH PAPP PUBLIC THEATER 212-239-6200
425 Lafayette St. www.publictheater.org
 
PLAYWRIGHTS HORIZONS 212-279-4200
416 W. 42nd St.
www.playwrightshorizons.org
 
SECOND STAGE 212-246-4422
307 W. 43rd St.
newyork.citysearch.com/E/V
/NYCNY/0010/92/14/cs1.html
 
STEPPENWOLF THEATER COMPANY 312-335-1650
1650 North Halsted St., Chicago.
www.steppenwolf.org
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kyra Sedgwick and David Strathairn co-star in "Strangers." (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times); Ella Joyce and Tony Todd are in August Wilson's "King Hedley II," coming to Boston. (Chris Bennion/Huntington Theater Company)(pg. 16); Joan Jett and Tom Hewitt are in "The Rocky Horror Show," scheduled to open in November. (Joseph Cultice)(pg. 13)
 
Drawings (Steven Guarnaccia)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

TICKER: TKTM (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. THEATER COMPANIES (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); FESTIVALS (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); THEATER (73%); ADOLESCENTS (70%); WRITERS (60%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (58%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH PAPP (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



209 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: In Chicago, an Attempt to Upgrade a Neighborhood

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHAROFF

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
A NEW housing development rising on the city's North Side is the first step in what city officials hope will be the transformation of one of Chicago's most notorious public housing projects into one that mixes the economic classes and makes the area more like Old Town or Lincoln Park, two gentrified neighborhoods it borders.
The public housing project is Cabrini-Green, which sits on a 70-acre parcel of land a stone's throw from tony areas like Michigan Avenue and the Gold Coast, but which for years has served as a symbol of urban blight and the failure of public housing policy. 
 City officials say the new project, called North Town Village, will be a model for other cities looking to redevelop blighted public housing projects.
"We feel we're at a critical point where we can move ahead with what is truly a great vision for redeveloping outdated public housing," said Christopher R. Hill, Chicago's commissioner of planning and development. "If it works here, it will work in other places. But this is the first."
The new project, which occupies seven acres that abut the northwest corner of Cabrini-Green, is to consist of 261 residences in a variety of low-rise buildings, mainly two- and three-story town houses and condominiums, with a few larger buildings. Some of the units will be for sale, and some for rent.
The building materials are mainly brick and stone and the architectural details in the Victorian or neo-Classical style. The architect is Todd Main, a principal with Bauhs, Dring & Main Ltd. in Chicago.
Renderings show a design similar to a number of other housing developments, public and private, that have been built downtown in the last few years.
What is different is the location and the prospective tenant base. Although there are other new developments in Chicago neighboring large tracts of public housing, North Town Village is the largest, and the first to include three distinct components: market-rate units, "affordable" homes with income ceilings for tenants and public housing. The land, which is steps away from several of Cabrini-Green's high-rise towers, was sold by the city to the developers, Holsten Real Estate Development Corporation and Kenard Corporation, at a reduced price of about $5.5 million in exchange for their commitment to go along with the city's plans for the area. That price is about half of the market price of similar property.
THE development is designed to have 50 percent market-rate units, 30 percent public housing units and 20 percent low-income units. (The 40 low-income rental units are intended for families that make no more than 60 percent, or $40,000, of the city's median income, and the 12 low-income units for sale are intended for families that make 120 percent, or $81,000, of the median income.)
In a change that reflects the city's new approach to public housing, the Chicago Housing Authority will lease the public units from the developers but not manage them. Instead, the project will be managed by a private company. "We're getting out of the business of running and managing programs," said Terry Peterson, the authority's chief executive officer.
Prices for the 93 market-rate units that are for sale start at $146,900 for a one-bedroom condominium and climb to almost $500,000 for a three-story town house. "We have mixed all three income groups completely throughout the development," said Peter Holsten, president of Holsten Real Estate. "Every building has all three income groups in it. You'll have an expensive town house with a public housing family next door."
Harold Lichterman, president of Kenard, added: "There's no difference at all between the market rate and the affordable and public units. If the the market rate gets a fireplace, the public unit gets a fireplace."
The project is expected to cost about $65 million; about half of the financing is being provided by grants and subsidies. "It's a very expensive project," Mr. Holsten said. "We're really trying to build a brand-new community here, and it's more than just bricks and mortar. We're putting a lot of energy into the people part."
The "people part" includes an extensive screening program for public housing families that includes drug testing, and a program designed to ease their entry into the private housing market, with neighbors from different economic classes. "For many of them, this will be their first private housing experience," Mr. Holsten said. "The program will teach them how to take care of their unit and what it's like to live in a private housing community."
Construction on North Town Village began last spring, and the project is expected to be completed in mid-2002. Some units will be ready for occupancy by next spring.
Reaction from buyers of the market-rate units has been positive. The sales office opened in mid-June and all but six of the 93 market-rate units have been snapped up. One of the early sales was to Kevin and Jennifer Hardman, who currently live west of the downtown Loop business district.
"The location is wonderful," said Mr. Hardman, a marketing manager at a suburban manufacturing company. "It's an area with a lot of potential. We didn't jump into this for altruistic reasons. It was a financial decision. We wanted the best home we could find for the money."
He added, however: "We're excited to be a part of the experiment. I'm a big believer in mixed-income communities."
The split between market-rate, public and low-income units is one the city sees as key to its larger goal of redeveloping the area. Cabrini-Green, built over 20 years beginning in 1942, has been a major trouble spot on the North Side for many years.
THE heart of the complex is a series of 14 brick high-rises -- many of the "open gallery" variety, meaning that there are no internal hallways -- along with several blocks of row houses and smaller buildings. At its peak occupancy, the complex housed as many as 15,000 low-income tenants and was a hub of gang and drug-trafficking activity in the city. Things got so bad in the late 70's that Jane E. Byrne, then the mayor, lived in the complex for about a month in 1981 in an effort to restore order. Eight years ago, Cabrini-Green made national headlines when a 7-year-old boy who lived there was shot and killed by a sniper on his way to school.
Development in the area around the Cabrini-Green houses stagnated in the 80's, but in the 90's, as the downtown housing boom gathered force, developers began taking another look at the blocks surrounding the complex. "It's some of the best land in the entire city," said Harry Huzenis, a principal with Jameson Realty Group, a residential brokerage firm in the neighborhood. "It's more affordable than Old Town or Lincoln Park but it has a lot of the same advantages in terms of location," he said -- about 10 blocks from the Loop.
The sticking point for many developers and prospective homeowners, however, remains Cabrini-Green. In the mid-90's, the city unveiled a plan to redevelop the area that included demolishing many of the largest high-rises and turning over some of the land to private developers. It also moved ahead with an aggressive public works program for the neighborhood that included building a park at the intersection of Division and Orleans Streets; two schools, including an elite, $35 million magnet school; a library; and a police station.
Two high-rises had already been torn down and several others had been boarded up when work came to a halt in the wake of a lawsuit filed by the Cabrini-Green Local Advisory Council, a tenants' group. The suit challenged the city's right to tear down the buildings without first guaranteeing residents equivalent or better housing in the neighborhood.
The lawsuit was resolved with the signing of a consent decree last month in which the city promised to build 700 units of public housing, including those in North Town Village, in an area bounded by North Avenue, Wells Street, Chicago Avenue and the Chicago River in exchange for the right to demolish three more high-rises.
"We got a good settlement," said Cora Moore, 62, president of the Local Advisory Council and a 40-year Cabrini-Green resident. "We want to live right here on the same land we've been living on all the time. We want a decent, sanitary place to live. Our goal has been accomplished."
If all goes according to plan, the units will be contained in low-rise buildings similar to those of North Town Village. "For the last 30 to 40 years," said Mr. Peterson of the Chicago Housing Authority, "we've isolated public housing residents socially and economically. But the residents are ready for a change. We want to integrate them back into the fabric of the community."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: North Town Village under construction, with Cabrini-Green in rear. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (91%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: OLD TOWN MILL (58%); OLD TOWN COPYWORKS (58%); CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PUBLIC HOUSING (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); 

PERSON: PETER HOLSTEN (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



210 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 8; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS;
A Designer Who Lives Like Her Clients

BYLINE: By MERRI ROSENBERG

DATELINE: IRVINGTON

 BODY:
IT is a fashion cliche for designers to say they design for themselves, but in Eileen Fisher's case, it's true.
As a working mother of two -- an 11-year-old son and a 7-year-old daughter -- who does the afternoon car pool, works from home to be with her children and takes part in charities and fund-raisers, Ms. Fisher really does live her clients' lives. 
 Small wonder, then, that her spare designs, expressed in simple shapes like kimono jackets, sleeveless shells, loose tunics and elastic waist skirts and slacks, which are made from fabrics like Irish linen, silk crepe or velvets, have become a uniform of sorts for Ms. Fisher's peers.
It is not uncommon for stylish women here to check with one another to find out which "Eileen" has been selected for the coming wedding, bar mitzvah or charity event, so they don't duplicate outfits. In fact, Ms. Fisher, who recently turned 50, said, "We have parties where the staff shows up in the same clothes."
Perhaps it's not surprising that Ms. Fisher has developed such an identifiable look.
As a child growing up in suburban Chicago, she attended parochial schools, where a uniform was required. She never thought she would actually be a clothes designer: she began her college career as a math major. Her roommate was in visual design, and as Ms. Fisher became more disenchanted with higher mathematics, design seemed more and more appealing. By the time she reached New York City, the daily routine of getting dressed for work proved the impetus to a new career.
"Just getting dressed in the morning was overwhelming," said Ms. Fisher, who admitted that she can't really draw and relied on someone else to help sew her clothes when she started to make her own designs.
"Shopping would turn my stomach," she said. "I felt a longing for my school uniform, a tweed jacket and textured skirt -- even though I hated it because my uniform didn't make me feel special."
Pared down to essentials, Ms. Fisher observed, the story of her company is "a school uniform story."
"What we do is keep what's good about the school uniform, but not that limited," she said. "It's a simplified system, like a Lego system, where it's simple pieces used in different ways."
From a sleek building between the Irvington train station and the Hudson River, Ms. Fisher presides over a company that generated $100 million in revenue last year. Ms. Fisher, who owns more than 80 percent of the company, started it in 1984 by borrowing money from friends.
The decision to move here reflected Ms. Fisher's philosophy not only as a designer but also as a parent and an executive.
"I had lived in TriBeCa and SoHo for 12 years," she said. "I had had a loft space in a renovated warehouse and liked the idea of being in a warehouse by the river. I've always loved water and loved sunsets.
"When we moved from the city, we wanted to keep the people we had, and I liked Irvington because people could come into the community, and they didn't need a car. Being here, people could have a little fuller life. We're close enough to the city, and I go to the showroom there once a week. I pick my kids up from school three days a week, and I can work from home, so I can spend time with them."
Her employees, too, are encouraged to balance family responsibility with community involvement. Even some employees who live in Manhattan are members of the Irvington volunteer ambulance corps, going out on calls during the work day.
In many ways, the Eileen Fisher company reflects Ms. Fisher's beliefs and values. Her designs mirror Ms. Fisher's attitudes toward life.
"It's not about money," she said. "It's about people, friends, family and community and how people treat each other. There has to be natural growth. It can't be something you force."
In fact, the company's latest advertising campaign features employees who are self-described in their various roles (bookkeeper, wife, illustrator, mother) wearing Eileen Fisher designs.
Community matters to Ms. Fisher. In 1999, the company donated 3 percent of pretax profits to charitable organizations, of which one-third are based in Westchester.
For several years, the company's annual warehouse sale was a major charitable event, with 25 percent of the sales going to local projects, including the public schools and a women's shelter. Most years, there was a surplus of volunteers, lured by the chance to get first crack at the clothing.
With the arrival of its own outlet stores, the company no longer holds a warehouse sale, though its donations continue.
The company even has a manager of social accountability, Amy Hall, who had previously spent six years in public relations and community relations.
"This position didn't even exist two years ago," Ms. Hall said. "It grew out of the desire to address human rights issues in our factories.
"One of Eileen's fundamental philosophies is that clothing should simplify women's lives. It felt natural to extend that to how we work with the community. It encompasses women who are facing crises in their lives, dealing with economic independence, domestic violence and health crises. We get about 40 requests a week and meet every eight weeks to discuss the requests."
As Ms. Fisher explained: "What we do with trying to help women get dressed is bigger than their clothes. It's not about dictating, and it's not about just a business to sell fashion. It grew out of what I was looking for. I have no time, so I want to make it simple."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The fashion designer Eileen Fisher in her Irvington office-workroom. She takes part in a car pool and works from home to be with her children. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WORKING MOTHERS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); FABRICS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); CHARITIES (76%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (65%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (53%); 

PERSON: EILEEN FISHER (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



211 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 4; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Debating a Bridgeport Casino's Impact

BYLINE: By RICHARD WEIZEL

 BODY:
A CASINO in Bridgeport would create 7,500 full-time and temporary construction jobs, pump $650 million of revenue a year into the Fairfield County region's already vibrant economy, and would create a demand in ancillary industries of $350 million.
If run by a Native American tribe, as at Foxwoods and the Mohegan Sun, a 150,000 square-foot casino in Bridgeport with 5,000 gaming positions, 125 table games and 3,500 slot machines would also generate nearly $100 million for the state of Connecticut. 
 But it would also result in an additional 29,700 vehicle trips traveling along the already congested I-95 on a typical Friday during the worst time period possible -- the 4-8 p.m. evening rush hour -- and extend that heavy traffic by several more hours.
A Bridgeport casino would also have a devastating impact on air quality -- with pollution becoming so bad it would be tough to comply with acceptable levels of pollution under the Federal Clean Air Act.
Those were the two conflicting views presented to about 75 realtors, bankers and businesses executives at a seminar last week in Stamford by the local branch of the Real Estate Finance Association on how a Bridgeport casino would help Fairfield County's economy, but hurt its over-burdened infrastructure and surrounding environment along the coast. Over the years, there have been a handful of proposals to build a casino in the city, none of which have been approved.
Entitled "Native Americans, Gaming and Fairfield County," the breakfast seminar brought together a panel of casino supporters and detractors, as well as a Native American chief from Kent who explained his tribe's quest for federal recognition and what that could mean to its chances to someday operate a casino.
"The decade of the 90's saw Native American gaming come full circle. During that 10-year period, Native American casinos evolved from high stakes bingo with pull tabs, some card rooms and some slot machines -- legal or illegal -- to the successful development of some of the largest casino resorts in the United States," said Mickey Brown, former president and chief executive of Foxwood Resorts Casino in Ledyard and now a lawyer in Atlantic City.
"The distinction between Indian casinos and the commercial casino industry is fading and becoming less and less obvious," Mr. Brown said. "But I want to tell you how the development of another Native American casino in Connecticut would impact the present economy and its overall affect upon western Connecticut."
Mr. Brown said a casino in Bridgeport would likely result in annual gross revenues of $660 million for the casino, and stimulate the region's economy with sales of items such as food and beverage purchases, marketing, utilities, entertainment, repair and maintenance and administration. He said all costs excluding wages would be in the range of about $170 million. He said employees would be paid more than $136 million in annual wages and benefits.
"Casino jobs are new jobs created where none previously existed," said Mr. Brown. "Because the business is highly labor intense and operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week, the casino business becomes a substantial employer immediately. To sum up, casinos import money. At Foxwoods we did over $1 billion in revenue during my last year there."
Joseph McGee, vice president of the South Western Regional Planning Agency, said he told the group that a casino in Bridgeport would greatly worsen an already existing daily traffic nightmare along Interstate 95 and the Merritt Parkway.
"In just 10 years the number of vehicle miles per day on I-95 has increased 30,000 miles to 128,000 vehicle miles per day," Mr. McGee said. "And even without a casino those numbers are going to keep increasing by nearly 2 percent a year. With a casino, all of these problems -- traffic, air pollution, the deteriorating infrastructure -- will be greatly exacerbated."
Richard L. Velkey, chief of the Schaghticoke Tribal Nation in Kent, said just as the more well-known Golden Hill Paugussetts, his tribe continues its long quest for federal recognition so that it may one day operate a casino in Bridgeport. But Mr. Velkey said because of a complex system regarding the federal tribal recognition process, he is not sure the region or state is ready for another casino.
"Here in Fairfield County and across Connecticut municipalities have no way of properly planning for future development," Mr. Velkey said. "This broken process is not only a source of frustration for the Schaghticoke, but it raises serious questions as to how many tribes will win federal recognition, when it will happen, and how state local federal and tribal leaders can work together to assure that the end result will benefit citizens and not create a situation that will negatively impact our community." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COUNTIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); GAMING (90%); CASINOS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESORTS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COASTAL AREAS (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: MICKEY BROWN (68%); RICHARD L VELKEY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



212 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2832 words

HEADLINE: Dissolving a Suburban Marriage

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

 BODY:
THE Christmas tree went up that year. Pictures were taken, too, and despite the breakup of Kim Manghisi's marriage, no one could tell from the photos how miserable things were.
The snapshots failed to show how Ms. Manghisi cried nearly every day after, she said, her husband backed a rental truck into the driveway of their new house in Yorktown Heights one Saturday in November -- six weeks after the birth of their second child -- and carted away much of their six years of life together. 
 "I thought when I got married that I was going to have this normal life: the two kids and the suburban home and the nice vacations, and we were achieving all of that," Ms. Manghisi, 42, a nurse, said, sharing her story in a Mount Kisco church one August night with others trying to recover from divorce.
"It was like the shattering of the dream."
Ms. Manghisi is one of the faces of divorce in Westchester, a place where, amid the well-educated residents and expensive houses, there is a steady population of couples heading to court.
Of the 68,147 statewide divorce filings in 1997, the year of Ms. Manghisi's split, almost 3,000 were here. Divorce in Westchester declined slightly the next year, but marriages fell, too, by more than 50 percent in the same period, from 12,121 to 5,848, according to the State Health Department.
The county's divorce rate is almost half the national average, because, historically, divorce is most common in poor areas, according to experts and figures from the National Center for Health Statistics.
But while the numbers may be lower than in other areas, like the South, divorces here are often more complicated and contentious because they tend to be among people who have been married longer and have acquired more, experts said.
No issue is too small when dismantling a suburban household. Who gets the chocolate Labrador retriever (or in some cases, its ashes), the Lenox china or a favorite rocking chair is argued on the seventh floor of the County Courthouse in White Plains.
"Couples who divorce in Westchester are much wealthier than on average, so divorce tends to be more difficult, there is more to fight about," said Marsha Garrison, a Brooklyn Law School professor who has compared divorce outcomes in Westchester with those in New York City and in Onondaga County.
Little has changed in the nine years since she wrote her study: more couples hire separate lawyers in Westchester; more women receive alimony, and child support payments are higher -- because people are more affluent.
Nationally, people typically divorce after seven years of marriage, but here, lawyers say, it is more likely to be after 18 to 20 years. And while people around the country tend to be 31 to 33 when they divorce, Ms. Garrison said that in Westchester, "you're likely to be talking about people who are older." The reason, she said, is: "People who are highly educated tend to marry later. So, because you have a fairly well-educated group in Westchester, these are people typically who married later in life."
What is new here in recent years is that the cast of characters has expanded; in addition to the lawyers, there are divorce financial planners and real estate agents marketing condominiums or apartments to the newly single. Divorce mediation services, long popular in other parts of the country, are also expanding here. And support groups continue to thrive in churches, community centers and private homes, helping divorcees recover emotionally.
If litigated, divorce is usually very costly. But it rarely goes to trial here. The number of cases begun in court fell to 109 last year from 121 in 1997. Just a fraction of those finish with a verdict, judges in Westchester said, because the process is too grueling and too costly to see through.
Ms. Manghisi was lucky: she survived the anguish -- and $16,000 in legal fees -- to tell her story inside the fieldstone St. Mark's Episcopal Church in Mount Kisco. As she spoke, a group of 50 divorced and separated men and women sat quietly on metal folding chairs arranged in a circle around her.
Later, a handful in the group gathered down the road at the 24-hour Mount Kisco Coach diner to dissect Ms. Manghisi's story. The divorcees, including the group's founder and leader, Micki McWade, admitted that they had had suicidal or murderous thoughts in the wake of their marital splits.
But that is just one of the complex sorts of emotions divorce can bring.
"I felt myself becoming my losses," said Bette Samuel, 43, of Briarcliff Manor, who was in the church that night. She did not feel suicidal, but her divorce four years ago was more painful than the recent death of her mother or a miscarriage she suffered just before the divorce, she said.
"I sat in a dark room and cried for six months," Ms. Samuel said. "A lot of it was like: 'Why me? Why is this happening to me?' "
A few blocks away from the support group, at a bar in Mount Kisco, a 41-year-old man told how he found his wife in bed with another man, "put the guy in the hospital" and got drunk for a year. Ten years later, he still feels sad.
A middle-age woman with dark hair said she split with her husband when the passion ran out of their 15-year marriage. Simple as that.
"My ex is my best friend," the woman said, poking at a plate of sesame-crusted tuna. "But would you want to sleep with your best friend?"
Another woman said that she and her husband split up for a year, looked over the so-called cliff of divorce and retreated back to marriage.
"Our two marriage counselors told us to learn how to fight," she said. "You get married for reasons."
In a suburban enclave like Westchester, divorce puts an abrupt end to sharing a home and two cars, raising a family and establishing roots. It is a middle-age father, James M. McLernon of Millwood, still blaming himself six years after he left his wife. His biggest worry is that his children, ages 9 and 12, "are the ones that got clobbered."
To others, divorce is a geographic and economic headache.
It is David J. Lord, 51, of Armonk, divorced once and separated from his second wife since 1996, who has two sets of children, on Long Island and in Westchester, and accounting offices in each county. It is Eddie Wirchansky, 42, of Peekskill, barely able to afford a baby sitter, never mind pay back the thousands of dollars in legal fees his father provided for a divorce a year ago.
It is a 49-year-old radiology technician from Larchmont who hopped over the border to Connecticut and filed because, unlike New York, divorce is no fault there.
Ultimately, experts and those going through it say, divorce is about isolation. And in a bedroom community where families are the norm, they said, it is especially hard to meet people after a divorce.
"I think that suburbia is so built on family life, so built on Saturday barbecues, the kids' baseball games, the whole trying to make a Norman Rockwell life, that people in suburbia are hit so hard," said Monica S. Getz, who is herself divorced and founded the National Coalition for Family Justice, based in Irvington. The organization educates people heading for divorce and supports people who feel unjustly treated in matrimonial or family court.
When they separated after 10 years of marriage in 1997, David and Donna Gage of Scarsdale were determined not to disrupt the lives of their 6-year-old triplets, Matthew, Robert and Allison. The couple never wanted them to have to leave their childhood home. So, they each found separate apartments nearby and swapped nights in the old Stratton Road homestead.
For nearly two years, the adults shuttled in and out of the white split-level house. They were the ones forced to pack and unpack their bags. They had to change their phone numbers and rearrange their mail. They kept their problems from fracturing their children's lives. The children. happily, could still play soccer, ride on the swing-set or bounce on the trampoline in their backyard. Their live-in nanny also stayed with them in the home.
"It was comfortable for them," Ms. Gage, 37, said. "They were in their same bed. They had the same schedule. Everything was nondisruptive."
The parents found the arrangement ideal, if unusual. They could afford two rents and a mortgage. In her $800-a-month studio, in Harrison, Ms. Gage was always five minutes away. In his $1,300-a-month condominium in White Plains, Mr. Gage was always three miles up the road.
"I got a lot of flak for it in the beginning," Mr. Gage, 48, said of the idea. "People gave me a hard time. They said, 'It should be more of a traditional split,' and, 'Don't look back. It is not good to be in-between.' But it worked out great." With the divorce final, Ms. Gage is in the house with the children full time now. Visits with dad require overnight trips. But the children are older, Ms. Gage said. It is less of a shock.
The Gages' solution was more the exception than the norm. Most cases are fought in courtrooms or legal offices. Ms. Getz said the legal system is fraught with problems and needs to be more family friendly.
One remedy divorcees are turning to more and more, many said, is mediation.
The Office of Court Administration in Albany wants divorce cases to be speedier and less adversarial, and efforts at reducing conflict have led to more mediators.
In the county, Amelia T. DelVecchio was appointed recently to head a new program that offers couples alternatives to the legal wars over custody, visitation or future earnings potential. The program has 41 mediators, and the service is free and does not delay the proceeding, Ms. DelVecchio said.
Complicating matters in Westchester, said Jacqueline W. Silbermann, administrative judge for matrimonial matters in New York, is that the two full-time judges who hear cases, John R. LaCava and Adrienne Hofmann Scancarelli, are leaving by year's end. That means that new judges, unfamiliar with cases that have already begun, will have to step in, Judge Silbermann said.
A program that educates parents about custody and the impact of divorce on children is expanding, and a similar program for children will start in the fall.
But mediation programs are not popular with everyone. If one spouse is abusive or fiscally domineering, it should not be attempted, most lawyers and judges said. Others say mediation adds an unnecessary layer to an already complex process.
"The mediation process can be beneficial," said Martin T. Johnson, chairman of the Family Law Section of the State Bar Association, whose law offices are in White Plains and Pearl River. "But it presupposes that both parties have an absolute handle of what their rights are, which is not always true."
Marcia Smithen Cohen's office in her Katonah home has a 40-inch round table, four identical chairs, a box of tissues and enough privacy to untangle complex domestic issues. Ms. Cohen, a lawyer, has traded dark pinstripe suits and heels for pants and sweaters; she's swapped advocacy for neutrality. She is a full-time mediator.
"The mediator is required to be impartial and neutral," she said, adding that mediators "empower people to make informed choices about their lives."
Westchester is home to many sophisticated business people, Ms. Cohen said, and they see mediation as a viable option.
"The most important reason to consider a mediated divorce for people who have children is the realization that, like it or not, they are going to have to deal with each other through the children's lives," Ms. Cohen, 54, said. "There will be events, school events, graduations, marriages, births when the parents who are ex-spouses will find themselves in close quarters."
Mediation provides training in how to cope with uncomfortable encounters.
Ms. Cohen often receives referrals from therapists. She charges on a sliding scale, depending on a couple's income. Prices start at $200 an hour.
Sometimes spouses patch up their differences after seeing her.
"They will come to you not necessarily knowing what they want, so you have to help them find their voice," Ms. Cohen said. "We frame issues and discuss how they might be resolved."
Two of the major issues in a divorce in suburbia are where to live and how to divide the assets while the divorce is winding its way through court. The economics can be so tight that couples are often forced to find creative, if tense, solutions. One idea is sharing a home.
That is what Susan W. did when her marriage fell apart in 1996. She and her husband of 28 years, Michael, were born in New York city but moved to Westchester to take jobs as social service caseworkers.
They bought their house in Rye Brook for $100,000 in 1979, and paid $1,200 a month for their mortgage on a combined $70,000 annual income. When their relationship died, they couldn't afford a second rent. So they split the house in half.
She stayed in the master bedroom in a section of the house built in the 1700's. He moved 30 feet away into a section added on later. They shared the kitchen, split the utility bills, hired one lawyer instead of two and tried to ignore each other.
"You are trying to make completely separate lives," Susan said. "But you are in close quarters with a part of your life that fell apart. And you can't move on emotionally."
It is such a forbidding scenario that most people end up in any housing they can find.
"Mostly they go to condos," said Maryellen Walsh, a broker for Houlihan/Lawrence, Westchester's largest residential realty concern, who usually gets a few calls each year from customers who bought houses from her as newlyweds and are now divorcing. "Sometimes a temporary rental unit until they figure out what they are going to do. If they have a more expensive house, they downsize to a smaller home."
New living arrangements spur new household budgets, and divorcing couples often need financial planning, experts say.
That is where Mary Prior steps in. Her one-year-old divorce financial planning service, Financial Priorities, of Valhalla, is what she said she needed while going through her own divorce in 1996 after a 25-year marriage.
"So many times people don't understand the finances and, well, everyone is in a fog," she said. "A lot of people just say 'I want it to be over with,' and then a year later they are in financial difficulty and are sorry."
Because women tend to be hit harder economically, Ms. Prior said most of the roughly 50 clients she has seen have been middle-age women.
"A lot of times," she said, "the women will want to keep the house because there are children involved, and the children are established in the school district and they don't want to disrupt their lives."
Other times, the financial and social hardships are so great in suburbia that some couples opt against divorce despite troubled marriages.
"Divorce is a very high-risk strategy for making your life better," said Maggie Gallagher of Ossining, director of the marriage program at the Institute for American Values, a Manhattan research organization that favors marriage and family. "It will certainly create another large and imposing set of problems."
As a matrimonial lawyer, with offices across the street from Family Court in the Bronx, Alina R. Rosenthal had seen her share of terrible divorces: the domestic violence and sex abuse that clients endured; the adultery, abusive or cruel behavior and the couples "out for blood" in contested cases.
By comparison, her own marital problems were small. And yet, her problems still propelled her to leave her husband, Shalom Zellingher, twice.
The first time, six years ago, she traded her husband of 13 years, their two children, their two cats, their housekeeper and their Ardsley-on-Hudson home for an apartment in Queens and an imminent divorce. There were deep differences over religion and the schooling of the children. But eight months later she moved back home.
Then, in November 1996, she tried to leave her husband and their problems behind again. This time everyone but her husband joined her in a nearby apartment. But again everyone returned to the Ardsley home eight months later.
"In 16 years, our lives are inextricably intertwined," Ms. Rosenthal said. "You can't erase that."
The couple lived the realities that divorce entailed, and it scared them. They went to counseling. They read books. They thought of the emotional and economic toll their daughters would suffer. A move, a change of schools and problems brought on by what Ms. Rosenthal calls the "inherent sadness of knowing mom and dad are not together and it's not because one of them is gone or dead."
Today, despite the same issues over religion (he's an Orthodox Jew and she is a Conservative Jew), the couple is still together. They are far from perfect, Ms. Rosenthal said, but divorce is not the answer.
"We both realized that apart is not necessarily better," Ms. Rosenthal said. "Life alone was not necessarily better."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Illustration by Lisa Haney)(pg. 1); Kim Manghisi, a nurse whose husband left her in 1997, at home in Yorktown Heights, above, and Alina R. Rosenthal, a matrimonial lawyer, in her office in the Bronx. Divorces in well-to-do suburbs, experts say, are often more complicated and contentious because they tend to be among people who have been married longer and have acquired more. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MARRIAGE (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (89%); LAWYERS (87%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (76%); SUBURBS (74%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); DOGS (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (70%); STATISTICS (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (66%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (64%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: KIM MANGHISI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



213 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY;
The Problem Is, Allan Has Solutions

BYLINE: By DEBRA GALANT

 BODY:
SOME people have lots of ideas. Writers think of stories. Mathematicians come up with proofs. Financial planners find practical solutions for life's basic problems -- like making sure you don't have to eat cat food in retirement.
My husband's second cousin, Allan Caan, a financial planner in Fair Lawn, must have a lots of time on his hands because he has more than his share of ideas. 
 I see Allan once a year, at a family reunion in the Catskills. One morning at our latest reunion, the conversation turned to golf, and Allan explained how several years ago golf had given him an idea for paring the long lines at New Jersey's vehicle inspection stations.
"I was driving in the car and it just came to me," Allan said. "Tee times."
From Allan's lips to Christie Whitman's ears. The State of New Jersey finally introduced scheduled car inspections this summer.
But that's kid stuff to Allan Caan. In 1996, Allan came up with his Big Idea: a plan to save Social Security.
"I tossed the current Social Security System out the window and decided to start from scratch and see what I could come up with," Allan said. "Within a half-hour, I came up with a plan that I actually thought would work."
Before you laugh, consider this. Allan's suggestion that I refinance my mortgage a several years ago was so well-timed that I got an interest rate of 6 1/8 percent.
It would take more space than I have here to do real justice to Allan's plan. But the gist has to do with what economists call the time value of money: the earlier you invest, the less money you have to put in. Allan argued that if we contributed to Social Security when people were born -- instead of waiting until they start working, as is done now -- Social Security taxes could be reduced by 97 percent. For a baby born in 2000, Allan has calculated, it would take a one-time contribution of just $3,552 at birth to generate the same benefit that would require $250,000 of contributions under the current system.
"We're wasting that first 18 or 22 years of the person's life," he said.
For the past several years, Allan has pushed his plan on anybody and everybody in power: his Congressman, other Congressmen, Jon Corzine's campaign staff. He once approached Christie Whitman at a Devils' game and handed her an outline. This summer, he had lunch at the Forum Diner in Paramus with Linda Mercurio, who is running for Congress in the Fifth District.
"On its face, it really does make sense," said Ms. Mercurio, a law professor and former tax attorney. "The biggest problem with it is selling it."
"Tell me about it," Allan said.
The furthest Allan has gotten was to have a business columnist for The Washington Post write about his idea in 1997. He was also invited to Washington by Representative Sue Kelly, a New York Republican, in 1996 to talk to her staff, but never got past the waiting room. Many people in or near power have claimed to be fascinated by Allan's idea, but so far all it has really generated are polite thank-you notes.
"The thing is," Allan said, "if you call a congressman with a problem, they know exactly what to do. But if you call them with solution, they're at a loss."
I decided to run this by the office of Allan's congressman. Chuck Young, the chief of staff for Representative Steven Rothman, confirmed that constituents' problems outnumber solutions by 3 to 1, but he insisted that the congressman took "whatever they have to say seriously."
"We have him in our computer," Mr. Young said
The thank-you letter, that is.
But you can't stop a thinker. Allan also has ideas for renewing urban slums without raising taxes and is pondering health reform. I posed some problems myself. What would he do about Lincoln Tunnel traffic? Or the Chicago Cubs?
"E-ZPass is a great system," Allan said with a shrug. "I didn't come up with that." As for the Cubs, he sighed, "Some things are just impossible."
But it seems likelier that the Cubs will win a pennant than that somebody inside the Beltway will seriously consider an idea for saving Social Security from a financial planner in Fair Lawn.
"The system doesn't completely shut out ideas," said Cliff Zukin, chairman of the public policy department at Rutgers. "But it is closed to people who are not already powerful."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Nancy Doniger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (57%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO CUBS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INSPECTIONS (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); WRITERS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (74%); VEHICLE INSPECTIONS (74%); FAMILY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); LAWYERS (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%); 

PERSON: JON CORZINE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



214 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2558 words

HEADLINE: From Front Office to Front Desk

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
MAGNESIUM white by day, coral red by night, the letters P S F S float over Center City as they have for 68 years. But they no longer mark the Philadelphia Saving Fund Society.
Instead, they signify Loews Philadelphia Hotel, the newest in a chain run by the Tisch family of New York. Loews took an aesthetically pioneering but economically obsolete 36-story office tower and, at the cost of $115 million, turned it into a 583-room hotel, preserving much of its cool, serene International style character. 
 Loews is in good company. Any number of landmark office buildings around the country are becoming hotels. In New York, Philip Pilevsky is turning the American Radiator Building, 40 West 40th Street, into the 130-room Bryant Park, which will open in late October. A week later, the Guardian Life Building at 201 Park Avenue South will be reborn as the 270-room W New York-Union Square, developed by the Related Companies and operated by Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide.
The appeal of such conversions is obvious. Beleaguered or abandoned landmarks are returned to economic use, enlivening surroundings that are often undergoing a renaissance of their own. Sumptuous spaces, tattered and long neglected, are opened again to the public. And rather than struggle to create a distinctive presence, hotel operators can slip into the identity of well-loved civic icons.
These developments, however, are not for the faint of heart. Or the formula-minded. Although projects may qualify for historic tax credits covering up to 20 percent of eligible costs, the expense is substantial of retrofitting a structure that was never meant to lodge overnight visitors. And winning approval from federal and local preservation authorities adds time and unpredictability to the process.
Much of the money goes into engineering that guests will never see, though they will pay for it. (Room rates at W will run from the upper $300's to the lower $400's and start at $500 at the Bryant Park. At the Loews, which is geared to group travel, the rates average $170 to $180 a night.)
Among the intrinsic problems in converting an office building are plumbing risers, which are typically concentrated at the core of the structure to serve common restrooms. Hotels need plumbing for each guest bathroom, requiring many new risers to be opened throughout the building.
Another headache is the spacing of window bays, which typically do not correspond to a standard 12- or 13-foot hotel module, forcing the creation of larger-than-normal room sizes and unusual layouts that please guests but confound efficient, standardized operation.
And yet, as in the case of the Bryant Park, how else would a hotelier find a building designed by Raymond M. Hood (the McGraw-Hill Building on West 42nd Street, the Daily News Building on East 42nd Street and Tribune Tower in Chicago were among his other commissions) and depicted by Georgia O'Keeffe? "We're creating a landmark in a landmark," said Mr. Pilevsky, chairman and chief executive of the Philips Hotel Group.
It has taken a lot of money to do so, about $50 million, although the 24-story tower came somewhat cheap: $15 million.
As striking today as it was on completion in 1924, the American Radiator Building is like a stalagmite of gold-trimmed ebony; black bricks fired in manganese, topped by shimmering finials. It caught the eye of Mr. Pilevsky, whose office is only two blocks away. During the 1980's, he had been a partner in the innovative Morgans, Paramount and Royalton hotels. When the American Radiator Building came up for sale in 1998, he bought it.
The Bryant Park, designed by David Chipperfield Architects of London, is to be the first in the new Philips Hotel Group, which will include hotels in Miami Beach and Great Neck, N.Y. The chief operating officer is Robert P. Colombo, former senior vice president of Fairmont Hotels, in which role he managed the Plaza Hotel.
Because the Bryant Park will cater to the entertainment industry, it has a 73-seat sub-basement screening room. This was created by digging 45 feet into bedrock, a task rendered especially difficult because the water table in the vicinity is quite high, displaced by the subterranean stacks of the New York Public Library, stretching beneath Bryant Park itself, across 40th Street.
"We had to incorporate a series of pumps and all kinds of underground drainage systems in order to have a movie theater and not a swimming pool," said Constantine Fotos, the project manager. Mr. Pilevsky said the excavation contributed to the seven-month delay in opening.
IN another significant structural alteration, the passenger elevator shafts were extended the full height of the building. Originally, they ran only to 16. Passengers bound for higher floors had to transfer to another elevator. Clearly, this would not do for guests paying $500 a night.
American Standard Companies, formed by a merger in 1929 of American Radiator and the Standard Sanitary Manufacturing Company, is now based in Piscataway, N.J. But it will play a small role at the Bryant Park. Guest bathrooms have custom-designed sinks made in Italy by Ideal Standard, a division of American Standard. "It's only appropriate that they come back as an element in the building," Mr. Fotos said.
Even as Mr. Pilevsky prepares to open the Bryant Park, he said the demand for office space would make such a conversion less likely in the future. With annual office rents of $50 to $60 a square foot, he said, "it doesn't pay to make this a hotel."
When the Related Companies went to contract two years ago on Guardian Life, it envisioned condominium apartments, said Jeff T. Blau, the president. But it concluded that a hotel would be the best use for the property and brought in Starwood, a giant whose brands include Sheraton, Westin and W, a two-year-old business boutique line.
Related paid $45 million for the 20-story landmark tower at Park Avenue South and 17th Street and an adjacent, modern three-story annex, which it has since net leased to MarchFirst, an Internet company. Guardian moved to 7 Hanover Square in 1999.
Under the $100 million makeover of the Union Square building, the ground-floor interiors are being recreated with offbeat touches like topiary columns that change seasonally and a front desk covered in grass. "Our concept was to try to pull the park into the lobby," said Edmond Bakos, a principal at the Rockwell Group, which is designing the renovation with Brennan Beer Gorman and the Starwood Design Group.
Some spaces were too good to alter. On the second floor is an imposing hall, two stories high, 66 feet long and 35 feet wide, where the public once bought insurance. It is to become the ballroom of the W. "What's better designed for a hotel?" asked Brad Wilson, the general manager. "It's exactly how you'd program a hotel, but with details that you could never afford to put in."
These details include decorative ligatures with the initials GLIC; not for Guardian Life but for the Germania Life Insurance Company, which built the tower as its headquarters in 1911, to designs by D'Oench & Yost. (The company renamed itself Guardian in 1917 -- "Germania" was not exactly a public-relations plus during World War I -- but, of course, it did not have to change any of the ornamental initials.)
The grand hall, which served as the company cafeteria in recent years, is ringed by a dozen richly veined marble pilasters and columns, as thick as oak trees, under a deeply coffered ceiling with 105 wreath-encircled light fixtures. "The room just screams, 'Wedding,' " Mr. Wilson said, both to parents who want the soigne ambiance of the Pierre and to young couples looking for a slightly hipper locale.
The preservation of the ballroom's clear span posed a challenge to the designers, since the new risers serving the floors above had to be redirected around the space. Apart from that, the guest rooms generally fit well into the existing tower. "It wasn't a perfect layout but it was a lot easier than we thought it would be," said Guy Hensley, the vice president of operations for W Hotels.
The conversion got off on the wrong foot in January with preservation-minded neighbors when crews began dismantling the red neon sign atop the four-story mansard roof without the city's permission. The work was halted for a time, leaving a truncated version -- "Guardian Li " -- on the skyline.
The Landmarks Preservation Commission later approved a plan to replace the sign with one reading "W Union Square" in the same size, color and typeface. "The proposed signage change, essentially a substitution of one corporate name for another, would not alter the character of the building," the commission concluded.
Jonathan M. Tisch, president and chief executive of Loews Hotels, faced a similar issue with the 27-foot-high sign atop the PSFS tower at Market and 12th Streets, two blocks east of Philadelphia's City Hall.
For about a week, there was discussion of projecting the Loews name at night in silhouette behind the existing letters. But that idea was scrapped. "I said, 'No, it's not worth tampering with an icon on the Philadelphia skyline,' " Mr. Tisch recalled.
His judgment was vindicated at the news conference with Mayor Edward G. Rendell in 1997 when the project was announced. With hundreds of jobs and tens of millions of dollars involved, the first question from the press corps was, What's happening to the sign? "I was very proud to say, 'We're leaving it alone,' " Mr. Tisch said.
That philosophy carried over to the rest of the project, in which the bank's most memorable public interiors were restored, beginning with an entrance hall off Market Street, almost 50 feet high, where a monumental flight of stairs and pair of escalators rise up to what was the main banking room. The walls are vast expanses of Belgian black and Bardiglio gray marble, unornamented by anything but a thin, four-foot metal ring that serves as a clock. The temptation for almost any hotelier would have been to lighten and brighten this austere space. But Mr. Tisch told the designers, "Anybody who touches this hallway is off the job."
"All you can do by tinkering is something that isn't appropriate," he said. "Philadelphians truly have a sense of ownership of PSFS. It was incumbent upon us to recognize that bond."
In fact, the chief architect of the restoration and renovation, Arthur W. Jones of Bower Lewis Thrower, can trace his family's connection to the site even farther back than the bank tower. His father attended the William Penn Charter School, which the PSFS Building replaced.
The Philadelphia Saving Fund Society, founded in 1816, was America's first savings bank. There was nothing traditional, however, about the building it commissioned in 1929 from the architects George Howe and William Lescaze, whose own startlingly modernist town house at 211 East 48th Street is a New York City landmark.
To contemporary eyes, the PSFS Building looks as if it had been built in the 1960's, with its strongly expressed grid of limestone columns and brick spandrels framing ribbons of glass and aluminum. The design was so innovative that in 1932, before construction was even finished, Henry-Russell Hitchcock and Philip Johnson included the tower in their enormously influential exhibition, "The International Style: Architecture Since 1922," at the Museum of Modern Art.
Turning their backs on Greek temples and Florentine palazzi, Mr. Howe and Mr. Lescaze created rooms of intersecting, asymmetrical planes polished to a highly reflective gleam. The stark lines and somber monotone of black, gray, silver and white were broken by surprising accents: red ceiling panels, blue tile floors and curving mezzanine walls made of a golden yellow French marble as savory as an omelet. In the 33rd-floor board room, the view toward the statue of William Penn atop City Hall was framed by one wall of Macassar ebony and another of book-matched walnut.
"This building has such richness in its concept," Mr. Jones said. "It's been like getting to know Beethoven."
All the tower's attributes could not save it from economic obsolescence, however. By 1992, it was 85 percent vacant. (And PSFS, after a troubled turn as the Meritor Savings Bank, had been acquired by the Mellon Bank Corporation from the F.D.I.C.)
What changed its prospects was the opening in 1994 of the Pennsylvania Convention Center just across Market Street. That turned a marginal office location into a prime spot for a hotel. The conversion project was begun by the developer Ronald Rubin of the Rubin Organization, who first approached Hyatt Hotels and then Loews, which later bought out his interest.
The PSFS Building did not have nearly enough of the meeting and mechanical space needed in a modern hotel, and there was no way to shoehorn it in. A rooftop cooling tower, for example, would have compromised the sign, which serves as a screen for the existing equipment.
FORTUNATELY, there was a large parcel adjoining the PSFS tower, which the Rubin Organization and Loews bought from the F.D.I.C. for the purpose of building a four-story hotel annex, with ballrooms, mechanical equipment, truck bays and offices. "Having that piece of land made this whole thing work," said Robert M. Powers of Powers & Company, an architectural preservation firm involved in the project.
As it happened, the quality that made the tower floors less desirable for office tenants -- a narrow, 60-foot span -- yielded an almost ideal hotel layout, with rooms along either side of a central corridor.
In the guest rooms, as in the new restaurant and lobby, the interiors firm of Daroff Design borrowed from the more exuberant and ornamental Art Deco vocabulary.
"Our first instinct was to stay with the minimal design of the International style but we did need to soften it," said Karen Daroff, president of Daroff Design. "We took almost a cinematic approach, using Hollywood's view of the 20's and 30's, juxtaposed with the abstract geometry."
The hotel opened in April, housed the Florida delegation during the Republican convention and is now running at about 65 percent occupancy, which is as expected six months into operation, Mr. Tisch said.
Three blocks from the Loews Philadelphia, the Girard Trust Company banking hall and tower by McKim, Mead & White, are now a 330-room Ritz-Carlton. In New York, another landmark in which McKim, Mead & White had a hand, the former Merchants' Exchange and National City Bank at 55 Wall Street, has reopened as the 144-room Regent Wall Street.
In Chicago, the Reliance Building, a crystalline tower by D. H. Burnham & Company, is now the 122-room Hotel Burnham, operated by the Kimpton Hotel and Restaurant Group. Kimpton plans to convert the former Tariff Commission headquarters in downtown Washington, an antebellum marble temple, into the 172-room Hotel Monaco.
Tom LaTour, the president of Kimpton, said the conversion of derelict landmarks makes economic sense. "If the building is empty or in disrepair or underutilized," he said, "implicit is that it can be acquired at below-market or advantageous costs, which allows you to do a few extras that you wouldn't otherwise do in a new enterprise. We think more and more that people who travel want to have a unique experience."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The hall where Guardian Life sold insurance, left, will be the ballroom of the W hotel. The American Radiator Building, above, is now the Bryant Park hotel. Public space in the PSFS bank, below, was restored as part of the Loews Philadelphia hotel. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times); (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); (Salvatore C. DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times)(pg. 1); A four-story hotel annex, visible at left, was added by Loews to the PSFS Building in Philadelophia. Above, the banking hall now glows as a ballroom. Rounded corner windows were restored on the first floor. (Michael Kleinberg for Loews Hotels)(pg. 6); The arched entry to the American Radiator Building, 40 West 40th Street, will lead to lobby, bar and restaurant of Bryant Park hotel, opening next month. Gold paint has been applied to masonry details. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 6); A rooftop sign, "W Union Square," will be added to the Guardian Life Building on Park Avenue South. In an elevator lobby, the carved initials GLIC originally stood for the Germania Life Insurance Company. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HOT (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (69%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (75%); RESORTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); 

PERSON: PHILIP PILEVSKY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



215 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 16; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: ART;
Rise, Fall and Rise of Glassmaking

BYLINE: By FRED B. ADELSON

DATELINE: MILLVILLE

 BODY:
WITH automation, the World Wars, the Great Depression and the rise of plastics, the 20th century was almost the worst of times for glassmaking. However, over the past few decades, glass has enjoyed a renaissance. Now it seems like the best of times. Gay LeCleire Taylor, the curator of the Museum of American Glass at Wheaton Village here, has organized an exhibit surveying American glass since 1900
The exhibit illustrates the most significant developments that have affected glass during the 20th century. Ms. Taylor stated that over the past 100 years glassmaking "has undergone dramatic changes in style and production methods." This thoughtful tribute to American ingenuity and creativity weaves together technology, aesthetics and economics. 
 Star treatment is awarded to a "Blue Daffodil" leaded glass and bronze table lamp made around 1900 by Tiffany Studios and a "Venetian Series" vase, which was designed by Dale Chihuly and made by Lino Tagliapietra at Wheaton Village in 1991. Louis Comfort Tiffany and Mr. Chihuly are, indeed, the most recognized names in American glass.
Since Tiffany opens the 20th century and Mr. Chihuly closes it, these pieces are the exhibition's benchmarks, each presented in its own free-standing showcase. The other pieces are arranged chronologically by decades.
In spite of the years that separate Tiffany and Mr. Chihuly, they make an interesting and complementary pair. Both artists have been inspired directly by nature. Tiffany was a designer, not a glassblower. Assistants executed his decorative concepts. Since a car accident in the 1970's, Mr. Chihuly no longer blows glass; he directs others to bring his expressive drawings to fruition.
When Michael Owens invented the bottle-blowing machine in 1903, it was a critical turning point for the glass industry, especially in South Jersey. The machine could make 16 bottles per minute. This eliminated the need for skilled glassblowers and the opportunity for workers to make end-of-workday decorative glass as a personal diversion. The industry went into a slump.
But then Pyrex was patented on May 27, 1919. This heat-resistant glass dramatically changed the way Americans cooked. One of the earliest dishes made of Pyrex by the Corning Glass Company is displayed. An iron with a Pyrex body that dates from the early 1940's looks like a handsome ice sculpture. Offered for sale in a choice of three shades, this red iron was the most popular. Ms. Taylor admitted that she could not resist plugging it in to see if it heated up. It did.
During the 1930's and 40's, the glass industry continued to struggle, but some manufacturers used innovative modernist designs to attract consumers. The decanter from the Ruba Rombic line, which was designed by Reuben Haley, epitomizes the spirit of Art Deco. This faceted and angular yellow (marketed as "sunshine") glass bottle with its elaborate stopper looks like something from a Cubist still life. Representing a different modernist aesthetic, the ivory-colored cremation urn is fashioned from Carrara Glass, which was developed as a building material. Its stark geometry, smooth surface and lack of ornamentation suggest a strong Bauhaus influence. These memorial urns were advertised as "everlastingly beautiful."
Studio glass artists began to emerge in the late 50's and early 60's. Frances and Michael Higgins created stylish accessories, like the "Barbaric Jewels Ashtray." It is easy to imagine this object sitting on an amoeba-shaped coffee table in a living room with pleated, fiberglass drapes. Harvey Littleton, a former ceramist, helped to inaugurate the studio glass movement with the creation of his expressionist-likevases that could be made in the newly engineered furnaces fit in an artist's studio.
By the early 1970's, a few pioneering dealers, like Sally Hansen, Ferdinand Hampson and Douglas Heller, began to sell contemporary art glass to an emergent group of collectors, affirming that glass had become an artist's medium.
At the same time, glass entered the museum world. The first public institution dedicated to glass is the Corning Museum of Glass, established in 1951. The museum houses the world's most comprehensive collection of glass objects, dating back to ancient Egypt. In 1973, the Museum of American Glass at Wheaton Village was founded. With approximately 12,000 works of industrial and studio art glass, it is the largest museum devoted to American glass in the country.
One of the most recent objects on display is the "Millennium Champagne Flute," a production piece made by Durand International in Millville. With its molded stem that is a vertical arrangement of "2000," this commemorative item became an immediate commercial success and brought a flurry of manufacturing activity back to the sputtering local glass industry.
There have certainly been major changes in the world of glass since 1904, when Carl Sandburg wrote: "Down in southern New Jersey, they make glass. By day and by night, the fires burn on in Millville." This exhibition demonstrates that "glass continues to enrich and enhance our everyday lives."
 
AMERICAN GLASS:
1990-2000
Museum of American Glass, 1501 Glasstown Road, Millville.
Through Oct. 22. Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
(800) 998-4552
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tiffany's "Blue Daffodil" table lamp is part of the glass exhibit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: TIFFANY STUDIOS (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); SCULPTURE (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); GLASS MFG (73%); 

PERSON: DALE CHIHULY (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



216 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS;
Word of Warning on Camden From Someone Who Knows

BYLINE: By Iver Peterson; Iver Peterson reports from New Jersey for The New York Times.

DATELINE: CAMDEN

 BODY:
It has been 10 years since Randy Primas left office, but the people up in Trenton still call him from time to time. They ask him what it was like when he was mayor here, what he thinks they should do now that the city is prostrate once again, and what the chances are for the state's most desperate city to recover some semblance of prosperity.
Melvin R. Primas was the mayor of Camden from 1981 to 1999, but he was more than just that. As the man who followed Angelo J. Errichetti into office -- Mr. Errichetti, you'll remember, was on his way to prison for corruption -- and having been followed by two mayors who were subsequently indicted, Mr. Primas is known around Trenton as the last good mayor of a city that sorely needed one. 
 Mr. Primas will no doubt be called on to talk some more about Camden this fall, when the State Legislature goes back into session and its members take their first hard look at the Whitman Administration's Municipal Rehabilitation and Economic Revitalization Act, also known as the Camden takeover bill for the power it gives the state to assume full authority over the elected and administrative powers of the city.
What will he tell them? First, that the problems of Camden have been a long time coming, and could be seen clearly 19 years ago when, as a new mayor, he began forecasting the city's yawning budget deficit into the future. Two, that the state's most lamented but politically inviolate system of financing schools and municipal administrations with real estate taxes will never raise enough money to make a poor city like Camden self-sufficient. And third, that the crisis of Camden is not going to be Mrs. Whitman's problem much longer, and that the people jockeying to be elected governor next fall should be thinking about their policies for cities like Camden sooner rather than later.
"The key was that we were able to sit down with the people in Trenton and to make a case for our problems," Mr. Primas, who is now an investment banker, said in an interview. "As soon as I got into office, we projected out our budget deficit four, five, six years, and we could show them that the need for aid was going to increase exponentially over the next 10 years. It wasn't at 80 percent of the budget then, but we showed that it was going to be."
The reason for Camden's crash are by now familiar: the big factories moved out and the middle-income people followed. Today, every census tract in the city qualifies for federal poverty programs. Harder to understand is why it has stayed so poor while at the same time Jersey City, Hoboken, Newark and Trenton have shown some improvement during the long boom years. If the curious legislators ask Mr. Primas that, he will tell them to look across the Delaware from the Camden's waterfront.
"The Philadelphia economy never heated up the way New York City's did," Mr. Primas said. Without a sharp difference in real estate costs between the city and its neighbor, Philadelphia never spun off the millions in new office development that has transformed the once decaying Hudson River waterfront across from Manhattan into a new urban landscape.
Milton Milan, the current mayor of Camden, has complained to anyone who will listen that the city needs help with economic development before it can pay its own bills. But since Mr. Milan is also under indictment for selling his office, his pleas have tended to be dismissed. But ask Mr. Primas, and he will tell the legislators the same thing: Just plugging the budget gap is not enough.
"As I look back on it, I realize that we managed to fill the gap but we never had the extra dollars to set the stage for growth," he said. "Every year we were holding on by our fingernails and getting just enough money to get through the year, and that's tough. That's tough. You never see any discretionary dollars and you never get a chance to set the stage for development."
That is the second message to the Legislature: Will the takeover prescription simply mean another decade of giving Camden just enough to scrape by, or will there be the enough additional money to allow the city to invest and blossom? The state has already poured millions into the city, of course, and new roads -- the Entertainment Center and the state aquarium are all evidence of that. But as Mr. Primas pointed out, what the city needs is employers with good jobs.
"Ronald Reagan was president during my tenure," Mr. Primas went on, "and he pointed to Cherry Hill as a community that worked, that didn't need any federal help. And I thought to myself, there we are two miles away, one of the poorest cities in America and one that can't survive without help."
Reformers in New Jersey have complained for years that the reliance on local real estate taxes -- the kind that Cherry Hill is rich in and that Camden lacks -- is unfair to children who attend underfinanced schools. And as Mr. Primas points out, it is unfair to municipalities that are kept in a continual straitjacket of low revenue while being urged by their suburban neighbors to do more for themselves.
There is a good argument over urban policy in all of those issues. Will the legislators and the candidates listen?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iver Peterson

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: AS SOON AS POSSIBLE INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CITIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICS (88%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); REAL ESTATE (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%); EDUCATION FUNDING (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); CENSUS (50%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: MELVIN R PRIMAS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



217 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: The Slide Into Poverty

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Working Harder, Longer," by Bob Herbert (column, Sept. 4): 
 I was glad to see Mr. Herbert raise the issues of indebtedness and the invisibility of the poor in discussing the status of working Americans. What are working Americans using their credit cards for: food, junk or e-trades? How often do we see TV programs giving people tips on how to handle credit more carefully? Is there a connection between credit-card debt and the 19 percent of children who live below the poverty line?
If America's booming economy depends on people's using consumer credit beyond their means, thus creating poverty, do we really have a healthy economy?
Let's ask Al Gore and George W. Bush.
 
BARBARA COMMINS
San Francisco, Sept. 4, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); CHILD POVERTY (87%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (87%); POOR POPULATION (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (70%); PERSONAL DEBT (70%); POVERTY RATES (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (54%); CHILDREN (53%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



218 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE SHELF;
The Human Side of a Hedge Fund's Tumble

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES; Diana B. Henriques, a financial writer at The Times, is the author, most recently, of "The White Sharks of Wall Street: Thomas Mellon Evans and the Original Corporate Raiders," a business history published by Lisa Drew Books, an imprint of Scribners.

 BODY:
ON Aug. 21, 1998, a little-known investment partnership in Greenwich, Conn., lost $553 million. The loss on that single sunny Friday left the behemoth fund with $2.9 billion in capital, down from $4.67 billion just months earlier.
The fund, of course, was Long-Term Capital Management, which was born in the brain of an enigmatic Wall Street bond trader named John W. Meriwether. By September 1998, with world markets already roiled by a Russian bond default, the enormous fund was teetering at the edge of failure, with many of the world's biggest banks and brokerage houses shackled to it by countless links of leverage. 
 If the hedge fund failed, who else would be pulled down with it? And how would a market already nearing the thin edge of panic react? Faced with those questions -- and with the impossibility of receiving reliable answers in the time available -- the head of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York called the fund's top creditors, the chieftains of Wall Street, to an emergency meeting at which they ultimately agreed to bail out the fund with fresh capital.
That dramatic and still controversial rescue, and the events that let up to it, are the threads that Roger Lowenstein weaves into "When Genius Failed: The Rise and Fall of Long-Term Capital Management" (Random House, $26.95). This richly textured and lucid account is not the first book to try to parse the secrecy that shrouded those events. "Inventing Money: The Story of Long-Term Capital and the Legends Behind It," by Nicholas Dunbar (Wiley & Sons), added a wealth of financial history and market theory to the core story.
But Mr. Lowenstein, a former Wall Street Journal reporter, has taken a completely different path, examining the events primarily through the prism of human nature. The results are a riveting account that reaches beyond the market landscape to say something universal about risk and triumph, about hubris and failure.
Central to the story is Mr. Meriwether himself, an accountant's son who grew up in a close-knit neighborhood in Chicago. An honor student with a mathematical bent, he parlayed his passion for golf into a college scholarship. Even as a teenager, he was an avid but cautious gambler, holding his cards -- and his ambitions -- close to his chest.
After college, he taught high school mathematics for a year, then enrolled in the University of Chicago's business school, working his way through as an analyst for a large insurer. In 1974, at 27, he was hired by Salomon Brothers, one of the leading bond-trading houses on the Street. Three years later, after making millions for the firm speculating on government and municipal bonds, he formed the arbitrage group, which used Salomon's own capital to exploit tiny disparities in bond prices.
To help him find these opportunities, he recruited a band of mathematical scholars, young academics whose awesome intelligence gave Mr. Meriwether the edge he sought in the increasingly competitive markets. The group was remarkably isolated from the rest of Salomon Brothers, and Mr. Meriwether protected them from even the normal human interaction of the workplace. "The professors were brilliant at reducing a trade to pluses and minuses; they could strip a ham sandwich to its component risks; but they could barely carry on a normal conversation," Mr. Lowenstein says.
They were a remarkable band, and most of them became permanent acolytes at Mr. Meriwether's altar, following him at every step of his career: Eric Rosenfeld, an M.I.T.-trained assistant professor at the Harvard Business School; Victor J. Haghani, a graduate of the London School of Economics; and the rigidly rational Lawrence Hilibrand, who has two degrees from M.I.T. Mr. Meriwether left Salomon Brothers after a brush with scandal -- he was the supervisor of a trader caught manipulating Treasury securities. He then started his own hedge-fund replica of the arbitrage group, adding three high priests of finance: Robert C. Merton and Myron S. Scholes, Nobel laureates for work relating to options pricing, and David W. Mullins Jr., who had been vice chairman of the Federal Reserve.
These men all possessed an unswerving faith in the notion that markets are fundamentally rational and efficient, and that every price generated in that marketplace is the correct one. Among economists, this so-called efficient market theory is just that, a theory, reflecting a Platonic ideal of the marketplace. Moreover, the theory assumes that trading in any market is more or less continuous and that prices move smoothly from one level to the next nearest level, giving everyone a chance to adjust portfolios rationally to reflect the changes.
Through Mr. Lowenstein's compassionate eye, we watch as these fascinating coddled geniuses discover what any dedicated flea-market shopper already knows: in real life, people buy and sell things for reasons entirely unconnected to rationality. As he notes, the mathematical laws governing a coin toss rest on the fact that "the coin doesn't remember that it landed on tails three times in a row; the odds on the fourth flip are still 50-50."
"But markets have memories," he says. "Sometimes a trend will continue just because traders expect (or fear) that it will."
He adds: "After three bad 'flips' in the market, the fourth flip may no longer be completely random. Some traders may have taken losses and be forced to sell; other investors, looking over their shoulders, may panic and decide to beat them to it."
And that is pretty much what happened in the galloping climax to the Long-Term Capital story. "The partners believed that, over time, investors would become more rational, more steady, more efficient -- more like they were," Mr. Lowenstein concludes. Instead, as the story unfolds, Mr. Meriwether's brilliant followers became more irrational, greedier, more oblivious to their own flaws -- in short, more like the rest of us.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "Business Best Sellers"
HARDCOVER
 
1 WHO MOVED MY CHEESE? by Spencer Johnson (Putnam, $19.95). Techniques for dealing with change in the workplace.
2 TEN THINGS I WISH I'D KNOWN -- BEFORE I WENT OUT INTO THE REAL WORLD by Maria Shriver (Warner, $19.95). Lessons about life -- private and corporate -- from the anchorwoman.
3 THE POWER OF NOW by Vivek Ranadive (McGraw-Hill, $29.99). How companies respond to change with real-time technology.
4 THE TIPPING POINT by Malcolm Gladwell (Little, Brown, $24.95). How and why certain products and ideas become fads.
5 GET YOUR SHARE by Julie Stav with Deborah Adamson (Berkley, $19.95). A guide to investment clubs and the stock market.
6 BOBOS IN PARADISE by David Brooks (Simon & Schuster, $25). The rise of upper-class bourgeois bohemians.
7 FIRST, BREAK ALL THE RULES: What The World's Greatest Managers Do Differently by Marcus Buckingham and Curt Coffman (Simon & Schuster, $25). Conclusions about management success, based on 80,000 interviews.
8 THE MILLIONAIRE MIND by Thomas J. Stanley (Andrews McMeel, $26.95). An analysis of America's financial elite.
9 DIGITAL CAPITAL by Don Tapscott, David Ticoll and Alex Lowy (Harvard Business School Press, $27.50). Business models for the Internet.
10 THE CHIEF: The Life of WIlliam Randolph Hearst by David Nasaw (Houghton Mifflin, $35). Biography of a media mogul.
11 LIVING ON THE FAULT LINE by Geoffrey A. Moore (HarperBusiness, $27). How traditional companies can survive in the Internet-based economy.
12 LEADING THE REVOLUTION by Gary Hamel (Harvard Business School Press, $29.95). Corporate innovation and self-reinvention in the new economy.
 
PAPERBACK
 
1 RICH DAD, POOR DAD by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter (Warner, $15.95). What the wealthy teach their children about money that other parents do not.
2 TAKE TIME FOR YOUR LIFE by Cheryl Richardson (Broadway, $13). A seven-step program for enhancing one's social and financial well-being.
3 RICH DAD'S GUIDE TO INVESTING by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter (Warner, $19.95). Learning from the wealthy.
4 LIFE STRATEGIES by Phillip C. McGraw (Hyperion, $11.95). How to define and achieve goals in life and work.
5 THE CASHFLOW QUADRANT by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter (Warner, $17.95). Risk-taking for those who have always valued job security above other considerations.
 
Rankings are based on August figures of almost 4,000 bookstores and of wholesalers serving 50,000 hardcover retailers and 60,000 paperback retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets). The numbers are statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. *Indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. + Some bookstores report receiving bulk orders on these titles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (85%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (85%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HEDGE FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); BAILOUTS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%); SCHOOL BONDS (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (65%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN W MERIWETHER (79%); ROGER LOWENSTEIN (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



219 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: COPING;
My Kid's Never Bad and Other Sandbox Tales

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
MY son and I were playing in Riverside Park, reveling in the sunshine and the green, when a shriek rang out. From the corner of my eye I saw a mother in distress, muttering wildly. She had grabbed her toddler and bent down to admonish a small boy of maybe 3.
"No meat," she was saying to the child, her voice quavering and loud. "She doesn't eat meat. You cannot, cannot give her meat." 
 As my heart rate turned to normal after listening to her screams, I quickly assessed the situation.
The two toddlers had been playing. The little boy had given the little girl a piece of his hamburger, perhaps in a courtly gesture of friendship. Big mistake. This mommy and this baby could not, would not, should not eat meat.
Somebody on the park bench, presumably an acquaintance, murmured something about their being a family of committed vegetarians.
The little boy's chagrined and red-faced mother silently walked over and took his hand. The two women exchanged not a word. The evil meat was wrested from the hand of the tiny vegetarian. She looked about 2 years old and seemed none the worse for her ordeal.
I call it "the hover factor." In New York, especially Manhattan, people often monitor and maneuver so many aspects of their children's lives that it becomes ridiculous. And nowhere is this neurosis more apparent than on the playground, when children are thrown together with strangers from many different backgrounds.
Think of the possibilities for intrigue and confrontation. The sand in the face. The errant softball. The tricycles, dolls and play strollers to be fought over. The jockeying for the swings or the slide. The lures of forbidden food and drink.
Most parents and their children operate with a certain kindness and live-and-let-live atttitude. But I have seen or heard tales of parents' chasing children who casually picked up a toy belonging to their child. Or parents who chastise children whose parents or caretakers are nearby but are outraged by the suggestion that their child is misbehaving.
These superparents, among the many irritations of city life, are back in full force after the summer lull, fretting simultaneously about private school acceptances and the ownership of Elmo dolls.
"I think people do get overinvolved," said my friend Anne, a novelist, the mother of a 2-year-old boy and a 5-year-old girl and a veteran of playgrounds around the city.
"There are these overprotective Manhattan parents who think of their kids as gods or goddesses and don't even see other children," Anne said. "It's very ideological. It's like joining an intense sect. Everyone has their own ideas about discipline and sharing and diet. So there's no agreement on what playground etiquette is.
"I think in New York kids become a fetish object," she said. "I think parents want to give their children the perfect childhood: no missing toys, no accidents, no hitting."
The other day, I saw a father bark at a toddler who curiously approached his child's empty carriage. Then there was the time when a father stood by silently when a boy of 9 or 10 repeatedly shouted that my 2-year-old was trying to steal his bike. When the boy asked his father if he had overreacted, when he realized that I was right there telling my son not to touch the bike, the father replied, "I don't know."
"I'd say it's split 50-50 between people trying to teach their kids to be nice and people who are hovering, overprotective and nasty," said my friend Lisa. She lives in Inwood and her daughter will be 3 in January.
"A little boy hit my daughter in the head with a book and took away the book she was reading," Lisa recalled of a recent incident on the Upper West Side. "I said, 'I'm sure he didn't mean to hurt you, sweetie.' His father came marching over and said, 'Of course he didn't mean to hurt her,' and picked him up and walked away."
"I think children are trophies," Lisa said. "They're not children anymore.
"I call it the 'have it all syndrome.' It's all about, 'I had my career and now I have a child, too.' "
It is children as trophies and fetish objects, but it is also just old-fashioned stress.
Studies are trickling in showing what a lot of us already know: the price for the robust economy is that people are working like dogs. They are spending it as fast as they make it, they do not have enough time with their families and they still want everything to be perfect. So even an outing on the swings becomes a situation of watching and worrying.
Maybe in a gentler time, the clash between the meat family and the vegetable family would have been at a lower volume. The two mothers could have used the opportunity to talk about differences and how to say, "No thank you."
What a thought. A playground without attitude.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mark Matcho)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (51%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (51%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHILDREN (90%); MEAT FREE DIETS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); PARENTING (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); CITY LIFE (60%); CITIES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



220 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Those Raises, Adjusted for Oil Inflation, Are a Mirage

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
HARDLY any description of the booming economy fails to include this upbeat observation: Wages have been rising faster than inflation for most workers since January 1996. The boom has lifted all boats, and that is its great social gift.
But this year, hardly noticed until now, the lifting stopped. Wages are still rising, but no longer faster than inflation. 
 That is a troubling development. Nothing has seemed more important in the economic boom than the wage gains it has conferred. High-end workers, those earning more than $80,000 a year, always gain ground. But the pay of nearly everyone else went nowhere for a quarter-century, until the rising prosperity of the 1990's -- and a falling unemployment rate -- finally brought relief.
Wages have risen 3 to 5 percent a year since 1996, with the precise figure depending on the measure used -- average wages, median wages, hourly wages -- and the particular group of workers measured. The $7-an-hour worker has done as well as those earning $18 or $25. And even now, these "nominal" wages, unadjusted for inflation, continue to rise at a fairly steady pace, according to Labor Department data tabulated by the Economic Policy Institute.
The problem is inflation. A dollar's worth of nominal wages does not buy as much when prices rise. Inflation must be subtracted to know the "real" rate of wage growth. A 4 percent nominal raise becomes no raise at all if inflation is also 4 percent. And that is roughly what has happened. The Consumer Price Index, which rose less than 2 percent a year in 1997 and 1998, is now climbing at an annual rate of more than 3.5 percent, nullifying all or most of this year's wage gains.
"There is no question that you have had constant nominal wage growth, yet slowing real wage growth, which over the last two quarters has been just about flat," said Jared Bernstein, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute.
The oil shock is the culprit, and there is hope that it will end soon, with OPEC increasing production enough to bring down the prices of heating oil, gasoline and aviation fuel, and with them the inflation rate. The decision to step up output could even come this weekend at a conference in Vienna. But the oil crisis is in its second year, and an earlier production increase didn't pull prices down.
If inflation sustains its present pace, American workers will be in a bind. Either they must agitate for bigger nominal wage increases -- making better use of the leverage they have from a very low unemployment rate -- or they will have to accept that the longest economic expansion in American history has lost its lifting power for them. "We are at a moment of testing," said Peter Hooper, chief domestic economist for Deutsche Bank North America.
MANY forecasters and Wall Street economists argue that the necessary bargaining power is still there. If the inflation rate stays up, workers will indeed start to fight for raises large enough to keep ahead of inflation or, failing that, they will jump to jobs that pay more. The struggle has not begun yet, this argument goes, because most people believe that inflation in the longer run will subside to less than 3 percent, and nominal wage gains will turn back into real ones.
Such thinking ignores accumulating evidence that American workers are more passive than in the past, and much less able, when inflation erodes their wages, to take advantage of market demand for their services. A host of reasons are cited: globalization, job insecurity, the decline in union membership, mass extinctions of higher-paying factory jobs, an influx of low-wage immigrants, companies that are quick to relocate to lower-wage regions, the disappearance of cost-of-living adjustments. The list continues, with two new observations.
The 86,000 workers who struck Verizon so effectively last month settled for a 12.5 percent wage increase over three years, plus less tangible stock options and profit sharing. Many nonunion workers have been getting similar wage increases since 1996.
And the old corporate practice of splitting productivity gains with employees -- often at the insistence of unions -- is fading. Labor productivity has been rising more rapidly over the last two years, meaning that workers generate more revenue and income for their companies. But the fruits have gone mainly into profits, not wages. Corporate profits rose in the second quarter to 9.7 percent of gross domestic product, from 9.34 percent in the fourth quarter last year.
"Workers have not yet recognized the extent to which their rising productivity has not yet been matched by increases in nominal wages," Mr. Hooper said.
The great concern, in sum, is that the lift for wage earners from the booming economy is fading, and in danger of disappearing entirely if the oil shock lasts.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Quarterly change in real wages for wor-kers at the median point on the wage scale (average of latest 4 quarters) since 1994.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (52%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (52%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (52%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WAGES & SALARIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); STATISTICS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); HEATING OIL PRICES (70%); HISTORY (69%); HEATING OIL (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); GASOLINE PRICES (65%); 

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



221 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 12; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: How an Unpretentious Family Car, the Passat, Got So Hot

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
FAMILY sedans generate big sales, but seldom do they create a buzz. The Volkswagen Passat, however, has gained most-wanted status, thanks to glowing reviews from automotive writers, high ratings from consumer publications and positive word-of-mouth among owners.
In the last year, Consumer Reports has given high ratings to the Passat. In its July issue, the magazine rated the Passat GLS
V-6 first among midsized sedans, over the Toyota Camry, Nissan Maxima and Honda Accord. The magazine had previously ranked the four-cylinder Passat above comparable models. 
 A top ranking from Consumer Reports, or even its more common "recommended" rating, is coveted, given that many car shoppers come to dealerships clutching copies of the magazine's reports, which some regard as gospel; some auto marketing executives have estimated that its recommendation can result in 25,000 added sales.
The Passat has also received uniformly favorable notices in enthusiast magazines and newspaper reviews, and it has won industry awards. This summer, for instance, J. D. Power & Associates named it the "most appealing family car."
As a result, Passat sales are soaring, setting records for much of the year. And if sales continue at the torrid first-half pace, VW is likely to sell nearly 90,000 Passats in 2000, well above last year's record of 68,151, said Tony Fouladpour, a spokesman for VW. The Northeast is a particularly hot market, accounting for 15 percent of Passat sales nationwide, Mr. Fouladpour said.
The car is attracting interest among consumers who might never have considered VW's lineup before. In Grand Rapids, Mich., buyers often arrived at Betten Imports with copies of Consumer Reports in hand, said the former sales manager, Jeff Leckta. Used to selling Volkswagens to repeat customers, he said, "I've seen people in here that I've never seen before." Several recent buyers traded Camrys for Passats.
He and other salespeople complain about a lack of cars to sell. As early as May, some dealers were telling shoppers that if they wanted a Passat, they would have to order a 2001 model, due in October.
The car's popularity means that VW has not offered special lease deals, discount financing or rebates, although the Passat is priced above its rivals. The base GLS is $21,725, compared with $18,980 for a Honda Accord LX and $20,843 for a Toyota Camry LE. The Passat GLS V-6 starts at $24,325 versus the Honda Accord LX V-6 at $22,390 and the Toyota Camry LE V-6 at $22,813.
The success of the Passat, a descendent of past VW models like the Quantum and Dasher, is quite recent. The previous-generation car suffered from quality problems and boxy styling. "You had to have a real appreciation for Teutonic German design," Mr. Fouladpour said of the 1990-97 model. Sales slipped as low as 11,021 in 1994.
Everything changed with the redesigned 1998 model, whose roofline is a graceful arc that mimics the look of the New Beetle. The restyled Passat has won praise for its interior comfort, adept handling and responsive engine. Many of its parts are shared with the more expensive Audi A4 and A6.
Fans include Ron Pinelli, founder of the Autodata Corporation, a statistics and marketing firm in Woodcliff Lake, N.J. This year, he bought a silver GLS with a turbocharged four-cylinder engine and promptly spent another $3,000 for custom wheels.
"Accord and Camry are wonderful products, but the Passat has more passion behind it," Mr. Pinelli said. He said the Passat's popularity was a symbol of VW's sales comeback in the United States. "It wasn't many years ago that VW was basically out of business in this country."
Passat has brought Volkswagen a sought-after group of buyers. Their average age is 38, compared with 43 for the last Passat. More are women: 43 percent, compared with 38 percent previously. And their household income tops $83,000, up $13,000. Three-quarters are college-educated, compared with two-thirds for the previous car.
Many auto companies would put on a full press to attract additional buyers, but VW's goal is eventually to sell 100,000 Passats a year in the United States. Mr. Fouladpour said VW could not hope to steal more business from the Accord and Camry, which each have more than 400,000 sales annually, because of production constraints and a relatively small network of dealers.
And VW insists that the Passat, with its decidedly German ride and handling characteristics, was never intended to appeal to the mass American market.
"It's still not a car for everybody," Mr. Fouladpour said. "It has a personality that attracts a certain type of buyer. Toyota and Honda do vanilla and bland better than everyone else. We intend to be a wakeup call."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Model on the Runway"
The last-generation Volkswagen Passat sold poorly in the United States, but the current model, which arrived in this country in 1998, has been a hit among auto critics and consumers.
 
1990 -- 18,329
1991 -- 16,138
1992 -- 12,578
1993 -- 11,970
1994 -- 11,021
1995 -- 14,010
1996 -- 19,850
1997 -- 14,868
1998 -- 39,272
1999 -- 68,151
2000 -- (Through Aug.) 58,648
88,636 Projected from sales through June.
 
(Source: Volkswagen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (86%); 7267 (TSE) (86%); TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (86%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (90%); SEDANS (90%); RANKINGS (89%); SALES FORCE (78%); WRITERS (77%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: TONY FOULADPOUR (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



222 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS for BOB WRIGHT;
Going Not for the Gold, But for the Cachet

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
BOB WRIGHT, the president of NBC, is wrapping up a few last-minute details stateside this week before he heads off with about 800 of NBC's biggest advertising clients for Sydney, Australia, and his network's biggest production of 2000, the Summer Olympics.
With agreements to broadcast the Games in the United States for every Olympiad through 2008 -- a total of five -- NBC has become the network of the Olympics. 
 Mr. Wright said he would be spending a chunk of his time in Sydney Harbor, aboard the same ocean liner the network took to Barcelona in 1992 to wine and dine the biggest commercial spenders.
He said he was increasingly confident that the 2000 Games, even at a fee of $705 million for American television rights, would prove to be an unqualified success, at least in programming if not quite in profits. Following are excepts from a phone conversation on Friday.
 BILL CARTER
 
Q. How did the advertising industry respond for this Olympics, in light of the bribery scandals at the International Olympic Committee?
 
A. That was certainly a concern to us but it does not seem to have affected any business issues. The I.O.C. handled it as best they could. They made a conscientious effort to clean things up and get the bad guys out. We hit our target in advertising sales of $900 million. This was a situation, when we went into those Olympic deals, where we hoped to enhance NBC's reputation and not lose too much money. We hit very good economic circumstances, which we were counting on. So this is not a money-losing situation for us this year. But it's not going to be much of a profit center.
 
Q. Will this year's coverage differ much from previous Olympics?
 
A. The biggest programming difference is 279 hours of Olympic programming on our cable networks, CNBC and MSNBC. There will be a total of 70 hours on the network. The cable exposure presents opportunities for other sports, especially for a lot of team sports that have never been seen, like soccer and softball. We're also going to have a full program of boxing on CNBC, starting every night at 5 p.m.
 
Q. You were able to use the Olympic coverage on cable in negotiations to extend your agreements with cable operators for your cable channels. How significant are these new deals?
 
A. We have been very interested in extending our carriage agreements with cable operators, and the Olympics were certainly an important part of that. We've used everything to gain the extensions, including retransmission consent agreements and some opportunities for improvements on the digital side when we reach that stage. Many cable operators were interested in extending through the end of our Olympic commitments in 2008 and some of them even went beyond that, to 2012. It means that CNBC and MSNBC are guaranteed carriage in the U.S. to a point as far off as 2012, That's enormously significant for us.
And by the time we get to the Salt Lake City Games in 2002, the distribution for MSNBC will expand from 62 million homes to about 70 million, another very significant advance. The biggest television stations we own have always taken great advantage of Olympics years. Between the Olympics and the political advertising this year, it will be the biggest financial year ever for the stations we own.
 
Q. You have committed almost $3 billion more for the rights to the Games in 2002, 2004, 2006 and 2008. Given that, how crucial is it that you perform well in ratings from Sydney?
 
A. Our performance in Sydney is very crucial. If some tragedy were to strike and we put up terrible numbers, it would certainly impact us negatively. But having said that, the reality is that Salt Lake City, as a domestic Olympics, stands on its own, has a cachet all its own. The impact of whatever happens in Sydney will be felt on Athens in 2004. But I'm confident we're going to do very well.
 
Q. Much has been made of how big events, like "Survivor" on CBS, have helped bring viewers back to the networks. Does having the guarantee of an Olympics every two years provide NBC with a built-in advantage?
 
A. It's important that we are able to say that we are the Olympic network, and we can keep on displaying those rings as part of our identity. Those rings have great recognition. That was a really important factor in helping us decide to take on this economic obligation. There is a debate about how valuable events like this are as promotional vehicles for future programming. It is hard to assess their promotional value, especially in the fall when the baseball playoffs will cause a lot of disruption of schedules. But the ability to have the most-watched programming to display your new shows is clearly a benefit. And we're already setting up for Salt Lake City. Those Games start only 13 months after we leave Sydney.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: NBC's Bob Wright.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); 

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (90%); 

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (73%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (73%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (90%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (72%); SOCCER (72%); SCANDALS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



223 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Rajeev Bhaman;
Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
RAJEEV BHAMAN was born in Bombay, has lived in England and was educated in the United States. As a teenager, he traveled the world with his father, the captain of a cargo ship. So he is not fazed by the travel required in his job, running the $170.8 million Oppenheimer Developing Markets fund.
"I find it exhilarating," Mr. Bhaman said recently from his office in the World Trade Center in Manhattan. "Exploring the differences and similarities among cultures, new places and new ideas is like being a detective. I'm sort of like Carmen San Diego." He has managed the fund since its inception in November 1996. 
 His travels have paid off for the fund's investors. The fund returned 11.88 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Sept. 7, putting it in first place among diversified emerging-markets funds, according to Morningstar Inc. Over all, the group had a 3.84 percent loss, annualized.
Mr. Bhaman, 36, uses a bottom-up approach to investing, looking for companies with strong growth prospects in emerging foreign markets. He screens the 15,000 companies in that universe down to 1,000 by focusing on market and industry trends that he thinks will fuel global growth over the next 20 years.
His most important theme is what he calls "mass affluence," which, he said, is grounded in the increasing consumption of brand-name, personal-care and disposable products, as well as appetites for entertainment and education. "It's incredible how quickly emerging markets have become consumer-driven economies," he added.
Two more key themes are new technologies and restructuring. "Most of Eastern Europe is a restructuring story, the transformation of unprofitable, state-owned enterprises to cash-generating, profitable companies," Mr. Bhaman said. "We think of it as a caterpillar that metamorphoses into a butterfly."
He owns a mix of value and growth stocks of all sizes in many industries around the world. The diversification helps reduce the volatility of emerging markets and other risks like currency fluctuations. The fund's prospectus says it can hedge its currency, but he said that is unnecessary for long-term investments.
His investments are concentrated in Latin America and in Asia outside Japan (36.6 percent each) and Eastern Europe (14.7 percent).
To pick the fund's 60 to 80 stocks, Mr. Bhaman uses fundamental research to find what he calls "good companies with good businesses at good prices." A good company, he said, fits one of his themes and has returns that exceed its cost of capital over the next three to five years.
A good price lets him double his money in three years, Mr. Bhaman said, or triple it in five.
Equally important is a shareholder-friendly environment. "The emerging markets are characterized by poorer shareholder protection laws than in the developed markets," he said, "and less efficient information flow."
He spends at least 25 percent of his time on international travel, he said, visiting more than 300 companies a year. He talks to local suppliers, distributors and customers to evaluate whether a company's stock price reflects what he thinks is its potential.
Many investments are in companies with operations focused on their home countries, Mr. Bhaman said, because they are generally better aligned with local consumer desires and specific cultural attributes than large multinational corporations.
He pores over financial statements, particularly focusing on a company's free cash flow, as well as its ability to generate cash in the future. He also reviews returns on equity, assets and capital.
Mr. Bhaman sells shares when they become fully valued, or when a company's fundamentals start to deteriorate.
MR. BHAMAN'S biggest holding is preferred shares of Embraer S.A., of Sao Jose dos Campos, Brazil. The company, which makes small regional jets and was formerly owned by the government, was privatized and recapitalized in 1995. He bought shares in March 1998 at 1.76 Brazilian reais, or 97 cents.
The company's growth prospects are strong, he said, because more countries are building smaller airports and need smaller airplanes. "Smaller planes are better suited for lower-volume traffic at cost-competitive prices," he said.
On Friday, shares closed at 11.9 reais, or 10.8 times his projected earnings of 1.1 per share this year.
Another favorite is Grupo Televisa, a Mexico City television broadcaster with a substantial Spanish-language publishing operation and satellite and cable TV businesses. It is also a leading supplier of Spanish-language programming to the United States.
"As the level of affluence increases, the company is well positioned to take advantage of increased advertising rates on television," he said, "and to sell programming to other parts of the world at higher prices." A recent cost-cutting program, he added, should increase profit margins.
He bought shares in July 1997 at $30. They closed on Friday on the New York Stock Exchange at $67.25 each, or 44.8 times his 2000 earnings estimate of $1.50 a share.
He also likes LG Home Shopping, the larger of two Korean home shopping networks. Although many Koreans are comfortable using the Internet, Mr. Bhaman said, "most of the people who buy are women over 30, and TV is a friendlier medium than computers for this group."
In June, he bought shares at 90,000 won ($81.42) each. On Friday, they closed at 185,500 won, or 37.1 times his 2000 earnings projection of 5,000 won a share.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The fund manager Rajeev Bhaman at a Manhattan cafe. The rise of consumer-driven markets around the world influences his stock-picking. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Oppenheimer Developing Markets"
Category: Diversified emerging markets
Net assets: $170.8 million
Inception: November 1996
Manager: Rajeev Bhaman since inception
Minimum purchase: $1,000 ($250 I.R.A.)
Portfolio turnover: 78%
3-year annualized return through Sept. 1: +12.73%
Category average: -2.44%
 
Sector breakdown
Financials -- 39.0%
Consumer staples -- 9.4%
Services -- 22.7%
Health -- 8.3%
Retail -- 8.1%
Other -- 12.5%
 
Fees (Class A shares)
Front-end load: 5.75%
Deferred load: None
12b-1 fee: 0.25%
Expense ratio: 2.18%
 
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ENGLAND (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ENGLAND (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (68%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); CURRENCIES (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); TRENDS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (67%); 

PERSON: RAJEEV BHAMAN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



224 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2657 words

HEADLINE: Righting United Airlines: Nine Flight Plans

BYLINE: By JULIE EDELSON HALPERT

 BODY:
TO say that this year has been difficult for James E. Goodwin, the chief executive of the UAL Corporation, parent of United Airlines, would be a vast understatement. During his one-year reign, United has been hit with problems that might well sink many a company.
The trouble began in April, with the expiration of its contract with the Air Line Pilots Association. As negotiations dragged on, pilots began refusing to work overtime. In June, the union voiced opposition to UAL's planned merger with U S Airways, concerned that the deal would jeopardize jobs. 
 From May through August, United canceled 4,800 flights -- 4 percent of its total -- because of worker shortages, leaving many passengers stranded in airports for hours, sometimes days, with no easy routes to their destinations. And weather-related delays compounded the problem.
Though the airline has reached a tentative pact with its pilots, it faces another potential contract battle with the International Association of Machinists.
UAL's convoluted corporate structure has not helped matters, either. The board includes, in addition to insiders and outside executives, members chosen by union and nonunion workers. Employees gained board representation and majority stock ownership in exchange for pay cuts in a 1994 restructuring.
Since reaching a 52-week high of $79 in January, UAL's stock has plummeted; it closed at $46.63 on Friday.
What can be done to repair United? Money & Business asked nine experts who track the airline industry to offer their insights; the advice ranged from improving customer service to canceling the pending merger.
The airline's officials are scrambling to repair the damage, and some relief may be in sight. The pilots agreement is scheduled for a vote in October, and Matthew Triaca, a spokesman for the airline, said that the negotiations with the machinists union were well under way and that he expected an agreement soon on that contract, too, helping to smooth labor relations and get flights back on track.
United is also trying to win back customers with bonus frequent-flier miles. And it is banking that a dose of humility will help, too. In August, Mr. Goodwin appeared in a 30-second television commercial apologizing for United's poor service. The company has also taken out full-page ads in newspapers. "We are working hard to bring the operation back to normal and restore the confidence of our customers," Mr. Triaca said.
That is no easy task. No one envies the challenge Mr. Goodwin faces in turning around United. Here are excerpts from the experts' comments.
 
SAM BUTTRICK
Airline analyst at PaineWebber.
At the root of the problem is the simple fact that labor has excessive structural leverage.
Any union group has a large bag of tricks it can rummage through when it wants to express itself. There has been a statistically significant change in behavior with the unions, which, while consistent with the letter of the contract and letter of the law, enables labor to hold management hostage with tens of thousands of customers daily -- and that's not right.
We're very concerned by the implications that the recent tentative agreement has on cockpit crew costs. It is total capitulation by United Airlines management. I wouldn't have agreed to a contract that gave the pilots the opportunity to work overtime, but did not require them to take it on. That leaves management at the mercy of the pilots' willingness to work overtime.
At the core of all this is that labor has significant leverage over the quality of the operations. Management needs to be empowered more, to curtail job actions. Managing labor expectations is a very tricky part of running an airline.
I don't see an intractable problem with customers. Getting customers back is very easy. An airline business is a network business, and United has a terrific network. People use the airline based on its schedule and network.
If you look at the last decade of on-time performance, United has never been an on-time airline, yet its financial returns are near the top of the pack. They should have frequent-flier inducements, and as fall-season loads decline from summer peaks, we could see fall sales. They could toy around with some performance guarantees, providing frequent-flier miles for excessive flight delays or cancellations. It may be administratively tricky, but it has an intuitive appeal, providing customers remuneration for substandard operations.
If they made me C.E.O., I would call off the U S Airways merger. It's time for United to focus on getting its own act together, instead of embarking on highly risky operations with integration issues that will exceed problems that United saw this summer. I don't think they're up to the task of merging. If they can't handle their own pilots, they're not up to the task of acquiring another airline.
 
GERALD MEYERS
Professor of organizational behavior, University of Michigan Business School.
They've got multiple crises going on: industrial and human relations. None of them are easy to solve. The first one that is amenable to treatment is the public perception crisis. They realize that what customers, the public and regulators think of them requires a full-blown, singular, all-out initiative, not just something that tags onto other things. It requires a crisis team, a crisis plan.
They need training in the organization on how to deal with this and experts to help them -- an effort by itself. Included in that are crisis communications people. They should bring them in. In my view they need to look at themselves from the outside and say they're going to do better. They have to see themselves as other people see them. They're in the public service business. They need to keep customers happy.
United should drop the ESOP employee stock ownership plan, created in the restructuring six years ago . It saved the airline, but it doesn't have a future. They should let the unions see they will get their money back and return the company to the managers. You can't change the management if the unions run it. The board of directors is useless. They can't talk about cost reduction.
ESOP's have their problems, and very few are successful. It's a source of the current problems. Once the ESOP is dissolved, the anger begins to diminish and the internal stuff on who's running the company will be minimized. You will have a schedule for how the current problems will be resolved over time and make clear there is a plan to make the company profitable and distribute the wealth. United is not a backward airline. They've got awful labor relations. Once that's solved, they will run a good airline and get people happy and satisfied and excited.
 
BARBARA BEYER
President of Avmark Inc., aviation consultants.
They desperately need to rebuild their image. At this point, everybody's really mad at them, including me. I fly 30,000 to 40,000 miles a year with them. I think what they desperately need to do is have better control over delays and send their flight attendants back to charm school.
If you think about it, the airline is a public utility. The only thing that makes it different is passenger service. When it's bad, you want to go to another airline. They need to teach employees manners. They've lost sight of the service attitude.
They aren't practical about the fact that they are having delays. If there's a delay, they should take full-fare passengers off the airplane and rebook them. They need more staff at counters.
 
ROBERT ROACH Jr.
General vice president of the International Association of Machinists.
We went to a meeting called by Transportation Secretary Robert Slater, and the one thing that came out of it was that airline carriers need to better communicate with passengers.
We need to better use technology to better communicate with passengers at airports. We should advise customers about delays so the customer can't scream at an agent. Also, if a customer comes to an airport to get on an airplane and pushes employees, he should be arrested and not be allowed to fly that aircraft.
And we should make people aware of what they'll confront when they start their journey from home. There is anxiety built into flying: nervousness, packing, the fear people have of flying. The airlines need to start educating you when you buy the tickets about the delays. Expect that weather delays are possible.
Agents should make frequent announcements about reasons for delays, so people won't get mad. Today, people assume that if anything happens, it's labor's fault. That's not the case.
We are negotiating an agreement with no efforts to disrupt United. Once the contract is swiftly resolved, it eases the tension. We need to move the process very quickly and that's what we intend to do. Then there will be no unsettled labor issues and no tension between labor and management. There is not a bad group of employees creating this. The problems are built into the system.
 
PAUL HUDSON
Executive director, Aviation Consumer Action Project, an airline-passenger advocacy group.
The biggest problem is they have a credibility gap with their customers.
They have not been meeting their schedules. If you know you have no resources to make the flights, cut back the schedule. If you can't fly planes on time, change published times to be more accurate and reflect the reality.
We've petitioned the D.O.T. Department of Transportation for a truth-in-scheduling regulation. For flights that are chronically delayed, there would be mandatory disclosure of on-time statistics by fax or telephone. If most people knew the on-time statistics for a lot of these flights, they wouldn't book them. Flights delayed over 80 percent of the time would need to be scheduled accurately or wouldn't be flown. They would cancel the flight until it could be scheduled to run on time.
Lack of spare airplanes and over scheduling are the biggest reasons for chronically delayed flights, not labor disputes or equipment failures or air traffic control or weather.
They are booking more flights than airplanes and crews can handle. I also feel that the government should require mandatory reserves of airplanes and flight crews of 3 percent. They are operating with less than 1 percent now. They're expecting that 99 percent of pilots will show up and that 99 percent of planes will be operating.
They should also stop overscheduling, especially at their hub, Chicago O'Hare. They schedule more airplanes to take off than the airport has capacity to allow. There's no way that can work.
And stop holding people in the airplane for excessive amounts of time. This is not necessary.
It also burns a lot of fuel and causes other problems. Most passengers would rather be in the airport for excessive waits.
 
STEPHEN A. GREYSER
Professor of marketing and communications at Harvard Business School.
At the end of the day, the bottom line for the consumer is that company behavior is far more important than whatever public relations or advertising the company may put out. I'm not suggesting that advertising and public relations are unimportant. But by themselves, they aren't going to do the job.
What the company has to do is improve the reality of the customer service, and that includes the scheduling. That includes handling on the telephones. That includes what happens in the departure lounge, and that includes what they do by way of keeping their customers who are in the lounge area informed about the truth of what's going on.
Many times they are not forthcoming in terms of providing truthful information, especially when there's an opportunity for a customer to go to another airline. Obviously they hate losing customers, but that's short-term thinking. The customer will remember she wasn't treated like a customer.
Dealing with the schedules is complicated, but thinning out the schedule is something they can do on their own. The first step is to reduce the schedule overload. Obviously they've got to fly planes to make money. But having large numbers of passengers complaining is not good for the company's image or reality.
They also need more people on telephones handling customer complaints. From a marketing point of view, they have to focus on frequent fliers. They have to develop a statement of fulfillable promises backed up by the commitment at all levels of management and the airline's operating group, a commitment to true customer service.
 
RANDY PETERSEN
Publisher of Inside Flyer magazine, a publication for frequent fliers.
The first thing I would do is I would probably resign. I believe they mishandled the crisis control. They thought that if they ignored it, it would go away. Customers don't go away anymore. I would hire another crisis control adviser.
I still fly United and think they're a good airline. But I would get all the people who work for the company on the same page. I think I would owe an apology to the employees who were put on the firing line. I would go back to employees and let them know we let them down as a company and make them happy. If you take care of employees, they take care of the customers. There needs to be a lot of healing. I would spend every single day on the job with my employees and the people on the front line, not giving away miles or discounts. Those are pacifiers for passengers. It's just bribery. That doesn't heal what's wrong with United.
United won't be ready for Thanksgiving or Christmas unless they heal themselves. The guy who works the checkout counter in Denver, the customer service manager in San Francisco. Those are the people I think I would talk to, and as C.E.O., I would not sleep until I talked to them all.
 
SANJAY DHAR
Professor of marketing, the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business.
The key thing is getting consumer retrial -- the people who left United for other airlines. Management should feel confident that problems are being addressed and share information that the pilots are the highest paid now and that the operations are being streamlined.
They should continue using Jim Goodwin but use a more solid message to say "these are the things we've done" and come up with very tangible things, like what Jacques Nasser did with Ford to respond to the Bridgestone tire crisis.
Goodwin has the biggest stake in the company, and he should communicate the message. United's top brass have a role to play in building confidence within their ranks. They should say, 'This is a company you should be proud of.' That's reassurance-building among customers.
Then you have to get people to try the airline. There could be financial incentives, or "buy two fares, get the third one free," or a sharp discount for flying on major routes. They could figure out how to recapture a dominant position in routes lost to other airlines, and offer a steep discount on those routes. That won't start a price war, because you're only offering it on specific routes.
 
ALFRED KAHN
Professor emeritus of political economy, Cornell University, and chairman of the Civil Aeronautics Board, 1977-78, during airline deregulation.
United's problems are a result of excessive congestion at particular airports at particular times. There are two major remedies that are obvious. First, we have to get some system for providing air traffic capacity that is sufficient. So the question is whether the F.A.A. and air traffic control system are ideally set up to respond to needs for additional capacity. And there have been various commissions recommending corporatization of control.
The second is correct pricing. Excessive congestion at certain times and places means you are undercharging. All airlines should charge more when it's more congested and less when it's not. Charges for phone calls are different at peak times than in the middle of the night.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Passengers at La Guardia Airport endured long delays this summer because of United Airlines' problems. United canceled 4,800 flights because of worker shortages. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Sam Buttrick, airline analyst; Barbara Beyer, airline consultant; Robert Roach Jr., union leader; A United passenger checks departures at Denver International Airport. (Reuters)(pg. 12); Randy Petersen, the publisher of Inside Flyer magazine; United passengers inquired about delayed flights at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago. As negotiations stalled, pilots refused extra work. (Associated Press)(pg. 13)
 
Chart: "Turbulent Times"
After a few stable years, UAL, parent of United Airlines, has faced both labor- and weather-related problems that have dragged down its performance.
 
Graph tracks revenue, net income and stock price since 1996.
 
PERCENTAGE OF FLIGHTS ARRIVING ON TIME - JUNE 2000
 
Northwest -- 75.0%
Delta -- 73.7
Continental -- 73.1
Southwest -- 71.1
Trans World -- 66.6
American -- 65.5
Alaska -- 65.5
US Airways -- 63.3
America West -- 60.5
United -- 48.3
 
(Sources: Company reports; Bloomberg Financial Markets; Department of Transportation)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (93%); LCC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (78%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (93%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (57%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (57%); INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (57%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (57%); INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AIRLINES (92%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); OVERTIME (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (69%); WEATHER (68%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); 

PERSON: JAMES E GOODWIN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



225 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Why a Soft Landing Could Be Worse This Time

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
WITH economic data pointing to a slowdown, it seems more and more evident that the Federal Reserve Board is piloting the economy to the soft landing that everyone has hoped for.
But that may be harder on American workers than many people think. At least, James Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis, thinks so. He fears that even a slight decline in economic growth could translate to more severe job losses than have been typical in previous downturns. 
 Why? Because of the marvel of United States productivity, the very thing that has allowed the economy to go full steam without creating inflation.
"What we now herald as a miracle because it holds inflation down becomes a nasty thing in a slowdown," Mr. Paulsen said. "If your productivity is as good in an economic slowdown as it is in an expansion, it accelerates job losses because you can produce more with even less."
Job creation has been slowing since 1997, when annual payroll growth peaked at 2.5 percent. Payrolls are now rising by 1.8 percent, yet gross domestic product growth is red hot. "If it only takes 1.8 percent job growth to produce 6 percent real G.D.P. growth," Mr. Paulsen asked, "could we end up in a situation where a soft landing of 2 percent to 2.5 percent growth means jobs falling by one-half or 1 percent a year?"
Mr. Paulsen studied the relationship of job creation and growth since 1950 and found that even in tough economic times, job growth was much higher than it is today.
For instance, from 1980 through 1984, a period that included two recessions, each percentage-point increase in gross domestic product growth translated into a 0.61 percent gain in jobs. But since 1995, every percentage-point increase in economic growth has resulted in just 0.10 percent more jobs.
A soft landing could be painful for workers for other reasons. In recent years, corporations have become obsessed with efficiency gains. This mind-set could change management behavior in a downturn, Mr. Paulsen argued.
"In the past, companies would cut capital spending in an economic slowdown," he said. "But capital spending has become efficiency spending and companies may decide to maintain capital expenditures this time and cut the labor force instead."
The merger mania of recent years may also add to greater-than-usual job losses in a slowdown. From the mid-1970's to the mid-1990's, Mr. Paulsen said, there were 2,000 mergers and acquisitions a year, on average. At today's pace, 10,000 deals may be done in 2000. "If you hit a slowdown," he said, "you're going to find out that all these merged companies have excess labor forces."
A case in point is Qwest Communications, which acquired U S West in June. On Thursday, the company said it would cut 12,800 jobs by the end of 2001 and increase its capital spending to improve service and invest in its core business.
If consumers were in sounder financial shape, the job losses that a slowdown might bring would not be so worrisome. But installment debt and stock market margin debt carried by consumers are now an astounding 24.5 percent of disposable personal income. From 1965 to 1995, this figure averaged 18.4 percent. It is off the charts thanks to margin debt, which now accounts for more than 3.5 percent of disposable income, up from an average of 0.78 percent for the 30 years ended in 1995. This debt load also means that consumer spending could contract significantly, exacerbating the downturn.
Of course, a slowdown in the economy is not yet certain. Although Mr. Paulsen expects growth to average 2 percent in the next 12 months, others don't agree. (Portfolios, Etc., Page 8.)
Nevertheless, as Mr. Paulsen noted, the productivity story has been a hugely positive one in an expanding economy. Its potential impact in a contraction has been largely ignored.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Productivity's Dark Side"
Change in annual job growth for each 1 percent change in G.D.P. growth.
 
'70-'74 -- 0.46%
'75-'79 -- 0.81
'80-'84 -- 0.61
'85-'89 -- 0.65
'90-'94 -- 0.78
'95-'00 -- 0.10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: CENTURYLINK INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (60%); 

PERSON: JAMES PAULSEN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



226 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: Business;
A Not-So-Little Phone Company From Little Rock

BYLINE: By STEVE BARNES

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark.

 BODY:
A FAVORITE story of Joe T. Ford, chairman and chief executive of the Alltel Corporation, involves a real yet proverbial little old lady. He tells it to every new group of employees.
Back in 1948, Alltel, then known as Allied Telephone, bought a group of tiny independent phone companies in southwest Arkansas, including one in the hamlet of Amity. "It had 200, maybe 250 customers," Mr. Ford recalled. It also had an employee named Edna Nunn, who, despite being restricted to a wheelchair by childhood polio, operated the company's manual switchboard, collected all its bills and handled customer complaints. 
 Shortly after Mr. Ford became vice president and treasurer of Allied in 1963, he noticed something odd about the Amity operation. "Every single bill was paid on time," he said. "Same thing the second month. Now, that just doesn't happen." But it did happen again the month after that, so Mr. Ford drove out to Amity to get an firsthand explanation from Ms. Nunn.
"Well," she said bashfully, "they'll all pay me back."
Mr. Ford uses the story to drive home a central tenet in his strategy -- that customer service translates into customer loyalty. From a small regional base, he has built a communications empire around the idea, one whose modest national profile belies its size and reach. And if the concept is not necessarily original to Mr. Ford, well, "I still want to convey that attitude," he said.
On a recent Friday, however, Mr. Ford seemed equally eager to be conveyed to Scotland, to start a vacation with his wife after 14 breakneck months of acquisition and expansion at Alltel. The company now has 10 million communications customers in 24 states, making it the sixth-largest land-line phone company in the country and the fifth-largest wireless provider; nearly a million of those customers have been added since Mr. Ford's last vacation in June 1999 (golf in Pebble Beach, Calif.)
Growth by accretion has been the rule since Mr. Ford married the founder's daughter, Jo Ellen Wilbourn, and joined the company as an advertising salesman in 1959. That year, Allied Telephone reported a whopping $12,000 in profit.
Through the 1960's and 1970's, most of the company's acquisitions were of small, independent operators in Arkansas and nearby states -- like the one that brought Edna Nunn onto the payroll. But that all changed in 1983 when Mr. Ford, by then a senior executive, helped engineer a transforming merger in which Allied effectively swallowed Mid-Continent Telephone of Canton, Ohio, a company four times its size, to form Alltel. Mr. Ford became president and chief executive in 1987 and chairman in 1991.
More big deals followed, culminating in the $6 billion acquisition in 1998 of 360degrees Communications, a wireless operator based in Chicago with 2.6 million subscribers. A smaller deal last year -- $1.8 billion for Aliant Communications of Lincoln, Neb. -- brought the total number since Mr. Ford joined the company to more than 250.
OTHER independent phone companies have also expanded by gobbling up their peers, large and small, but few have transformed their businesses quite as sweepingly. The 360degrees Communications deal was "the seminal event for the company," said Eric Strumingher, a telecommunications analyst at PaineWebber, because it made Alltel as much a wireless company as a land-line phone utility; last year, wireless operations provided 42 percent of Alltel's $6.3 billion in revenue and 52 percent of its $1.62 billion in operating income.
The two businesses are closely integrated. "While others are talking about bundling of services and being a company that provides one-stop shopping, Alltel is, of all the large companies, the only one executing that strategy well," Mr. Strumingher said. "There's no other company I know of at its size or larger that has completely torn down the structural barriers that exist between wireless and hard-line business."
The company's growth has not come cheaply. In some deals, Mr. Ford said in an interview, he has agreed to pay as much as $1,100 a customer -- a price that he regards as a sharp premium, but one that market conditions forced on him. "Everything I've ever bought, I always thought I paid too much for," he said with a shrug.
But the math has always turned out all right, he quickly added: "We've worked through everything we've paid."
In contrast to giant rivals like the former Bell companies, which usually turn for capital to the big financial center banks and Wall Street houses, Alltel has financed much of its growth through a Little Rock neighbor that shares its tendency to fly under the radar of its rivals: Stephens Inc., the brokerage and investment banking firm. The Stephens Group, the family-owned parent holding company of Stephens, is also a major Alltel shareholder, with a stake valued at about $1 billion.
Mr. Ford's personal ties to the Stephens family are three decades old; he and his wife are close friends of Jackson T. Stephens, chairman of Stephens, and Mr. Ford's youngest son, Scott, 38, worked for Stephens for a decade before becoming an executive at Alltel.
The changing industry landscape has helped open the way for Alltel. "Deregulation changed it all," Mr. Ford said. "Competition replaces regulation." But he wondered whether the government's grip has relaxed enough. "The F.C.C., to my mind, is still too much of a regulator," he said. "They've been doing too much 'social' regulation as opposed to economic regulation."
Mr. Ford's other main public policy concern is education. "I think it's pretty serious when some youngster comes out of high school and really can't read or write," said Mr. Ford, whose father was a state education commissioner for many years. Without adequate schooling, he said, people cannot take full advantage of Internet access, a market he has positioned Alltel to penetrate, particularly through wireless services.
"It's the thing that's out there," Mr. Ford said. "I'm convinced people are going to be more on the go in the future than they have been in the past. They want access to information and we want to give it to them."
Analysts say Alltel took a big step toward that goal with a deal it struck earlier this year with Verizon Communications, swapping $600 million in cash and some of Alltel's wireless properties in the Midwest and Northeast for Verizon's in Ohio and in Sun Belt states from Arizona to Florida. Alltel gained 700,000 customers in the deal.
Colette M. Fleming, an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in New York, said the deal was shrewd for the company, even though by widening its service area it is increasing the proportion of its calling volume that will not generate roaming charges, the fees that callers pay when using their phones outside their own company's territory.
"Any short-term hit they're taking in earnings due to reduced roaming revenues is necessary to position them for the long term," Ms. Fleming said.
The company told analysts last Thursday that 2001 earnings would indeed fall short of the $3.26 a share that they had been expecting, and that $3 to $3.10 was more likely. But Bruce Behrens, who manages the Flag Investors Communication fund, said Alltel stock "ought to be worth a lot more" than the $51.75 it fetched on Friday.
Mr. Ford will turn 65 in 2002, and expects to retire then. His son Scott, now chief operating officer, is widely seen as his heir apparent, but Mr. Ford deflects questions about succession, saying only, "It's up to the board of directors."
For now, he is enjoying Alltel's success as much as ever. "I think we've hit a stride," he said. "I think it's just a matter of 'keep expanding, keep growing.' I get up every day looking forward to it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joe T. Ford, Alltel's chief, standing at left with two other fans before an Arkansas Razorbacks football game in Little Rock. (Carl Stolleis for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Transformed by Growth"
As Alltell has grown rapidly through acquisitions . . .
Graph tracks Revenue and Operating income since 1990.
 
. . . its wireless business has overtaken traditional telephone service.
Graph tracks Wireless subscribers and Landline subscribers since 1990.
 
(Source: Alltel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AT (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (96%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ALLTEL CORP (96%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (71%); MERGERS (68%); 

PERSON: JOE T FORD (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



227 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.;
Rising Productivity Challenges Notions on Limits of Growth

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
PRODUCTIVITY.
That word, more than any other, explains the phenomenal performance of United States stock markets over the last six years, a period in which the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index tripled and the Nasdaq composite rose fivefold. 
 Higher productivity enables companies to increase sales without adding workers. Even if job markets tighten and wages rise, corporate profits can continue to climb as long as worker productivity is growing faster than overall wages. And, over time, higher earnings spell higher stock prices, since a stock is in essence nothing more than a claim on a share of a company's future profits.
Productivity is just as important to the health of the overall economy. Despite the Sturm und Drang over the Federal Reserve's periodic efforts to control the economy by changing short-term interest rates -- and despite the debate over the best use of the government's huge surplus -- productivity is all that matters in the long run. Individual income can grow only as fast as productivity rises.
So for stock market bulls, the report on Wednesday that United States productivity increased at an annual rate of 5.7 percent from April through June was extremely good news, providing another bit of evidence that the economy and corporate profits can grow far faster than most economists thought just a couple of years ago.
Over all, productivity rose 5.2 percent in the 12 months ended June 30, the biggest year-over-year increase since 1983, when the United States was emerging from a deep recession. In contrast, the gains this year came after almost a decade of economic growth, with job markets tight and skilled workers scarce. In fact, productivity growth has increased steadily since late 1996.
Now a growing number of economists are accepting the once-heretical view that the United States may have permanently increased the rate at which its economy can grow without inflation, thanks to advances in computing and information technology.
"Wherever productivity growth is today, my guess is that in six months or a year, it will be higher still," said Stephen Slifer, the chief United States economist at Lehman Brothers. "About once in 100 years, something really big happens, and this is it."
Mr. Slifer said he believes that the nation's economy can now grow at an annual rate of 4.5 percent without risking higher inflation, thanks to higher productivity. By next year, he expects that growth at an inflation-free rate of 5 percent will be possible.
Risking the scorn of skeptics, Mr. Slifer added that he had begun to believe that recessions were no longer inevitable. "Is it inconceivable to think this thing can keep going, and in 2010 we could see the 20th year of this expansion?" he asked. "No."
Business cycles lengthened greatly during the 20th century, as central banks learned to manage national economies by raising and lowering interest rates. Now, with productivity soaring, all the Federal Reserve needs to do is stay out of the way, Mr. Slifer argues.
For investors, that means that stocks will continue to outperform bonds and cash over both the short and long terms, according to Jeffrey Applegate, Lehman's chief investment strategist. Mr. Applegate, a longtime bull, said corporate profit margins had increased almost across the board over the last decade. "At the peak of the last business cycle, after-tax margins for the S.& P. 500 were 5.6 percent," Mr. Applegate said. "In the first quarter of 2000, margins were 7.8 percent." And they have probably risen since then, he added.
But what about the skeptics, who point to a legion of potential problems, including higher oil prices, the nation's giant trade deficit, the possibility that productivity growth is overstated, and the high prices of many technology stocks? Mr. Slifer advises them to open their eyes.
"They keep trying to find the problems," he said, "and every year comes and goes, and things still look as good as they have before." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK INDEXES (93%); PRODUCTIVITY (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (79%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN SLIFER (90%); JEFFREY APPLEGATE (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



228 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
Gore's Tax Problem

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
The bad news about the detailed economic plan the Gore-Lieberman campaign released last week is that it does contain some smoke and mirrors. The good news is that the smoke and mirrors are there not to conceal the true cost of extravagant promises, but to make a modest, not particularly exciting plan sound like something more.
Never mind those 192 pages of good intentions. There are really only two important components to the plan: an extension of Medicare, mainly to provide prescription drug coverage; and "targeted tax cuts," tax breaks that reward families for all sorts of good behavior. 
 The extension of Medicare coverage is actually a conservative measure, in the fundamental sense of the word. America decided 35 years ago to guarantee health care to older citizens, and while some politicians may dream of turning back the clock, they won't say so in public. But pharmacology has come to play an ever more important role in modern medicine; health insurance that does not pay for prescription drugs looks less and less like the universal coverage most people support. So there's nothing radical about trying to plug that gap. Indeed, at this point George W. Bush has grudgingly accepted the principle that Medicare should provide drug coverage; he's just haggling over the price, and trying to keep the insurance companies in the game.
If you want something to complain about in Mr. Gore's program, it's those tax cuts. For one thing, each cut gets touted twice -- once as a tax break, then again as part of a program to promote truth, justice and the American way. And it is an understatement to say that the tax breaks are complicated. As best I can figure, they are targeted on a middle-income widow with many children, all about to enter college, who does not receive health insurance from her employer, is enrolled in a training program, drives a fuel-efficient car and is about to inherit a farm.
But I'm not sure I got it right. Actually, I find Republican claims that Mr. Gore has understated the cost of his plan bizarre; it's far more likely that his plan won't actually cost as much as he says because many people who are entitled to claim tax credits will never figure it out.
Why so complicated?
One answer involves political philosophy. Although you would never know it from the other side's rhetoric, New Democrats like Mr. Gore have clearly renounced the party's old big-government, big-spending tendencies. But they apparently retain a lingering taste for penny-ante activism, handing out a few baby carrots here and there to people who do the right thing.
The more important explanation of Mr. Gore's intricate tax plan, however, is that this is what happens when you try to play mine-is-bigger-than-yours with a shameless rival. Mr. Bush is proposing huge, budget-busting tax cuts, mainly benefiting the top 3 or 4 percent of taxpayers; Mr. Gore wanted to counter with a smaller, far more prudent tax cut that nonetheless showed bigger numbers for middle-income families. The trouble is that because the income tax is mainly paid by high-income families, it's hard to cut it without mainly helping those families (although Mr. Bush made a gratuitous further tilt toward the rich by slashing marginal rates mainly at the top, while leaving the marginal rate on most middle-income taxpayers unchanged). Mr. Gore's economists have tried to pull it off, but the strain shows.
But why is Mr. Gore in such a hurry to cut taxes anyway? After decades of deficits, the federal government has now run an "on-budget" surplus for precisely one year. Can't we wait a couple of years to see if it lasts?
And if and when we do feel that tax cuts are in order, who said that it must be the income tax that is cut? A much easier way to target working families would be to cut other taxes: two-thirds of American taxpayers -- the bottom two-thirds -- actually pay more in other federal taxes than they do on their 1040's.
So I'm not happy about Mr. Gore's tax proposals: instead of clearly distancing himself from Mr. Bush's truly bad idea, Mr. Gore has tried to meet it partway.
Still, Mr. Bush's tax plan is grossly irresponsible, while Mr. Gore's is merely uninspiring. And this is a case where less than half a loaf is better than one. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MEDICARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (75%); CHILDREN (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); POLITICS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); PHARMACOLOGY (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); INSURANCE (67%); 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



229 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Global Waffling;
When Will We Be Sure?

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
WHEN several eminent scientists returned recently from a tourist cruise to the North Pole aboard a Russian icebreaker and reported finding water, not ice, at the top of the world, the image resonated far and wide, providing a call to arms for scientists and environmentalists who for years had been trying to convince politicians and the public that heat-trapping gases from tail pipes, power plants, even methane-belching cattle, could disrupt the climate.
But on second look, things were not nearly so simple. Although arctic experts said there were many signs of warming, including a thinning and shrinking of the polar ice cap, there was no way to link a patch of sun-dappled water at the pole to climate change. 
 So the question of what is happening to climate -- and whether people or natural forces are to blame -- returned to the realm of nuanced, statistical fuzziness, where it has been for nearly 20 years.
What a moment to lose potential clarion calls. Hundreds of negotiators from industrialized countries are to convene this week in Lyon, France, and again in late November in The Hague to try to firm up ways to cut emissions of greenhouse gases under a 1997 climate treaty called the Kyoto Protocol. The treaty was signed by the United States and 84 other countries but is in danger of falling apart because of disagreements over how to make and measure cuts.
Most climate experts are certain that global warming is real and that it threatens ecology and human prosperity, and a growing number say it is well under way. But policy makers, always eager for black and white, have once again found science offering shades of gray.
Indeed, global warming is a classic example of the persistent mismatch between the language of science and the needs of policy.
Science operates by steadily chipping away at ideas through experiments or observations, eventually revealing truths, but often obliquely -- by eliminating what is not true. The bigger the idea, the harder it often is to verify with precision. The result is persistent debate, whether the issue is how to manage forests to reduce wildfires, how to set limits for chemicals in food to prevent cancer, or -- in this case -- how to figure out whether people are dangerously fiddling with the global thermostat.
But before policy makers can try to sell potentially costly or difficult solutions, say, taxing fossil fuels, they need to build a clear and compelling case that strong action is called for.
The lesson in all of this, according to climate scientists -- some of whom think humanity is already in big trouble -- is that no one should expect some alarm bell to start ringing to summon societies to take action.
The evidence is subtle and complex, and probably will be so for a long time to come, said Jerry D. Mahlman, who is retiring as director of the federal Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory in Princeton, N.J. "This is going to be incremental forever," he said.
Those increments continue to add up, he and other climate experts said. Past climate ups and downs mostly mesh well with natural variations in the brightness of the sun or the cooling effect of parasol-like plumes of particles spewed by big volcanoes. But the recent warming, according to several recent studies, only correlates well with one thing: the buildup of carbon dioxide, methane and the other greenhouse gases.
Hints that warming is being caused by emissions from industry and other human activities have been extracted from air bubbles trapped in ancient ice, from variations in tree rings, from the quick retreat of alpine glaciers. Thermometers dropped deep in the ocean and in holes bored in permafrost show warming patterns that do not match up with natural influences like changes in the sun's brightness.
STILL, the subtleties have allowed warming skeptics ample opportunity to challenge the idea. Some, like Richard S. Lindzen, a meteorologist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, have built durable counterarguments, saying the links connecting the earth's oceans, air and "cryosphere," its frozen places, are impossible to elucidate with sufficient confidence to predict much beyond next week's weather.
In an interview, Dr. Lindzen acknowledged the arctic warming trend and slight global warming measured in the last century, but said it all is well within the realm of natural variation or measurement error -- and not yet within our power to understand.
"This is a field that was in a primitive state when it assumed a policy importance a few years ago," Dr. Lindzen said. "Suddenly we've declared thousands of people in a primitive field as world experts, and they're trying to have their day." And reports last week that boats had traversed the normally frozen Northwest Passage and northern rivers and lakes were freezing later and thawing earlier were countered with the response that this seeming meltdown could still be ascribed to natural wiggles in temperature or ocean currents.
But most scientists, including some who work with Dr. Lindzen at M.I.T., say the balance of data has shifted firmly toward a conclusion that people, through their impact on the atmosphere, are influencing climate now and will have even more impact in coming years.
Somehow, many experts say, if the threat is to be countered, societies will have to figure out a way to act in the face of gray uncertainty, to deal aggressively with a problem that lacks the attributes of a crisis. That is no easy task.
Dr. Mahlman has pretty much given up on that hope, saying that many countries, including the United States, have essentially decided that the focus is going to be on painless, low-cost fixes like growing trees to sop up the most common greenhouse gas, carbon dioxide, and on adapting to coming warming instead of countering it.
"We just don't want to face up to it," he said, adding that people do not want to change their lifestyle or the economy "for the sake of avoiding future costs."
He and others stress that the real challenge with global warming and similar issues is that, by the time the impact becomes too clear to debate, it will be far too late to do anything about it.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Is a giant crack in an ice shelf proof positive of global warming? Science offers a resounding "maybe." (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ARCTIC (79%); FRANCE (70%); NETHERLANDS (55%); 

STATE: RHONE-ALPES, FRANCE (55%); 

CITY: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (55%); LYON, FRANCE (55%); 

COMPANY: ON TOP OF THE WORLD INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ARCTIC (79%); FRANCE (70%); NETHERLANDS (55%); RHONE-ALPES, FRANCE (55%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (55%); LYON, FRANCE (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CLIMATOLOGY (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); METHANE (76%); NATURAL GAS (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); POWER PLANTS (71%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (71%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (60%); CANCER (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARD S LINDZEN (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



230 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Swallow Hard;
What if There Is No Cure for Health Care's Ills?

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
WHEN Vice President Al Gore outlined his economic vision for America in a speech in Cleveland last week, he did not even mention health policy. That was quite a change from 1992, when controlling health costs and providing health insurance for all Americans was one of the driving forces of the Clinton-Gore campaign.
Back then the prevailing view was that the rising cost of health care and the failure of many Americans to have medical insurance posed a serious national problem. There was widespread disagreement over how to solve the problem but not over whether it could and should be addressed. 
 Today, however, in an era of unrivaled prosperity, when Americans express complete confidence in their ability to handle most economic concerns, the authorities and the public have begun to doubt whether costs for the best medical care can ever be contained, or whether a practical way exists to provide insurance for all citizens.
In the last year, health costs have risen much faster than the overall rate of inflation or workers' wages. And the only main economic indicator that has actually worsened during the Clinton years is the number of Americans without medical insurance. A study last spring by the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation shows that 44 million people, or 18.4 percent of the population, had no insurance in 1998, the last year for which figures were available, up from 38 million people, or 17.5 percent, in 1992.
The case seems to be that what is economically rational is politically unacceptable. And what is politically possible does not fit with economic realities. People demand the finest doctors, state-of-the-art technology and expensive drugs, no strings attached. But neither they nor their political representatives are willing to pay the price this would entail.
For a time it was thought that health maintenance organizations were the silver bullet. But the public rebelled against the restrictions they imposed. And once the cost of premiums began to rise, companies began dropping them.
The political turning point, of course, was the collapse of the mammoth health plan President Clinton offered in 1994. The plan, grounded in large part on H.M.O.'s, was too complicated and ambitious, and fell victim to opposition from the insurance industry and Republicans. It was the worst legislative defeat of the Clinton presidency, and it contributed to the Democrats' loss of control of Congress in the 1994 elections. "The political fallout from this debacle was staggering," said Henry J. Aaron, an economist at the Brookings Institution who has advised Democratic politicians on health policy.
Mr. Gore is obviously gun-shy from that defeat. The book-length manifesto he put out with his policy speech in Cleveland last week addresses his health proposals in passing on Page 118 -- including an ambitious and expensive promise to guarantee all children health insurance by 2005. But this was not one of the vice president's top 10 goals -- like encouraging home-ownership or expanding access to college.
Gov. George W. Bush of Texas would just as soon skip the issue of health care and avoid further scrutiny of the record in Texas. Thirty-seven percent of low-income children there are uninsured (only Arizona does worse), and a federal judge ruled last month that the state had failed to abide by a 1996 court order to provide appropriate health care for more than 1.5 million children eligible for Medicaid.
Public opinion on health policy has clearly changed, as well. "In the last eight years," said Robert J. Blendon, an authority at Harvard on health and public opinion, "people got scared away from big solutions."
In 1992, Mr. Blendon said, most people said they would accept a big tax increase in order to guarantee health insurance for all. Now, he said, two-thirds of Americans tell pollsters they would like a government program to make sure people have insurance, but fewer than 40 percent favor a sweeping measure that would require higher taxes. And many people, Mr. Blendon said, are afraid that the government might make matters worse.
The one health issue that has been joined in the campaign, prescription drug coverage for the elderly, was hardly discussed eight years ago. Since then, however, drug prices have risen by as much as 15 percent a year. Last week, Mr. Bush laid out his plan for subsidies that he said would allow the elderly to buy private insurance to cover drugs. Mr. Gore would give the elderly drug coverage under Medicare.
A decade ago health maintenance organizations seemed to offer a solution to the health care dilemma. Companies would pay a flat fee per employee; workers could see only the doctors in their particular plan; and primary-care physicians decided what treatment was permitted. In turn, they were rewarded for holding down costs.
In a Supreme Court decision in June upholding a health plan's right to give doctors a financial incentive to hold down costs, Justice David H. Souter used blunt words to describe the fundamental principle behind H.M.O.'s: "treatment rationing."
H.M.O.'s seemed to work for a time. The rise in health costs slowed. But the public began to complain about all the rules limiting the services they could receive -- about the rationing. Eventually, those complaints grew so widespread that politicians began debating what they called a patients' bill of rights.
Then the costs began to rise again. Last week, the Kaiser Foundation reported that between the spring of 1999 and the spring of 2000, monthly premiums for employer-sponsored health insurance rose by 8.3 percent, a full 5 percentage points more than the overall national inflation rate and 4 points more than the rise in workers' earnings.
Now, in increasing numbers, companies are abandoning H.M.O.'s for preferred provider organizations -- doctor networks that agree to reduced rates for their services. They don't have the expensive approval-referral bureaucracy of H.M.O.'s, and they offer a wider range of doctors and relaxed rules about the availability of treatments.
But there is no particular reason to believe that over the long run P.P.O.'s can offer people the care they want at an acceptable cost. "Don't be surprised if this bubble pops too," said Robert D. Reischauer, president of the Urban Institute, who is one of the foremost authorities in Washington on government health policy.
A major problem with controlling health care costs is that conventional economic principles do not fully apply. Employers want to keep the cost of insurance down to protect their profits. Doctors and hospitals will not perform services at a loss. Drug and insurance companies want the largest profits possible for their shareholders. The less money people pay out of pocket, the more expensive treatments they demand.
But market forces do not apply to other aspects. Because most bills are picked up by insurance, people pay little attention to the cost of treatment, and they have no way to assess the quality of medical services they receive. Beyond that, for most people, good health is priceless; they are willing to pay whatever it takes for themselves and their families.
So this is the conundrum for politicians. Their constituents will not accept the rationing of their medical treatment. People do not want to be told that good health has a price. On the other hand, neither the politicians nor their constituents want to pay the higher taxes or higher insurance premiums required for unlimited health care.
Some day this may be sorted out. But not in this election. The best guess is that matters will get worse sooner rather than later. With the tight job market, many employers are simply swallowing the cost of higher insurance premiums because they cannot risk losing workers. But when the economy turns the slightest bit sour, employers will surely force workers to pay more or even cancel insurance altogether.
What this means politically is uncertain. But for now, the policy experts and politicians agree, if changes are made, they will be incremental.
"We are definitely in a transition period," said Dr. David A. Kessler, dean of the Yale Medical School. "But no one knows where we are headed."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Mark Loader for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INSURANCE (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (67%); FOUNDATIONS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



231 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Old Southern Strategy Faces Test in Selma Vote

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

DATELINE: SELMA, Ala., Sept. 7

 BODY:
After 35 years, Mayor Joseph T. Smitherman's high-wire act above the city's churning racial politics had begun to settle into routine. Every four years, he would hold barbecues in black neighborhoods, boasting about the number of black department heads he had appointed, while reminding white voters that he would be "the last white mayor of Selma," hinting that the racial deluge was around the corner.
But this year, Mr. Smitherman has found himself in the fight of his life, forced for the first time into a runoff election -- on Tuesday -- against a black candidate, and the hints have become a bit less subtle. Now, in the city that became the blood-stained symbol of the fight for voting rights, the former segregationist is promoting himself as the candidate of diversity, preventing city government from being engulfed by blacks. 
 "Everywhere that you've gone all black, the towns have gone down," he said between cigarettes in his office, citing several examples of black-run towns that have gone bankrupt. "You need white inclusion, you need diversity in the city government. Let's face it, the whites have the money, the white business people. They tend to pull back when it goes all black. So that's what I'm trying to get across to the blacks."
Unfiltered and raw, appealing even to black fear of a ruined economy, this is hardly the velvety approach of the typical New South white politician. But racial politics in Selma has always been a few degrees more blunt than average. Many of the city's white business leaders -- the ones supposedly heading for the door -- shake their heads at Mr. Smitherman's argument.
"Joe Smitherman can call up Armageddon as well as any Southern preacher, and that's what he's doing," said Richard P. Morthland, chairman and chief executive of The Peoples Bank and Trust Company, the city's largest locally owned bank. "I don't know of any business that would leave town just because we have a black mayor."
Nonetheless, the mayor's arguments have proved remarkably effective over the years. Though he was mayor on that bloody March Sunday in 1965 when sheriff's deputies and state troopers attacked hundreds of people marching across the Edmund Pettus Bridge for voting rights, he argued persuasively that he and his police had nothing to do with the beatings. He has made a career out of renouncing his former support for segregation, making sure he spread city services evenly in black and white neighborhoods. Now 70 years old, he has been re-elected nine times since 1964, despite repeated efforts to unseat him by black candidates in a city of 21,000 that is now 65 percent black.
But last month, James Perkins Jr., a former computer consultant, came as close as anyone ever has to defeating him. Mr. Perkins won 43 percent of the vote, just 276 votes behind Mr. Smitherman at 46 percent. A second black candidate, City Councilman Yusuf Abdus-Salaam, won 10 percent of the vote, forcing the two leading candidates into a runoff on Tuesday. Mr. Salaam, who leads the city's Muslim community, has accused Mr. Perkins of "religious bigotry" and appears to be siding with the mayor.
Mr. Perkins, 47, who has run against Mr. Smitherman twice before, contends this effort will turn out differently. While black voters are increasingly put off by the mayor's condescension, he said, white voters are also disenchanted by Mr. Smitherman's performance. Last year, the city's former police chief and former city clerk, along with Mr. Smitherman's nephew, pleaded guilty to embezzling more than $700,000 from the city through fraudulent billings. The mayor said he knew nothing about the theft.
"It's his job to know what's going on," Mr. Perkins said. "And at the same time, he's allowing a huge disparity in the quality of life between black and white neighborhoods, and now he's trying to divide the city by saying industry will leave if I'm elected. This is obviously a mayor who's panicking."
Many residents say the mayor has not done enough to improve the city's economy, which has suffered like much of the rural South from a continuing drain of manufacturing jobs. (The county's unemployment rate in July was 10.7 percent, compared with Alabama's rate of 4.4 percent.) Racial tensions continued to bubble in Selma long after the marches ended, particularly in 1990 when the city's first black schools superintendent was dismissed and protests closed the city schools.
Although black officials now dominate the City Council and the County Commission, there has long been an outspoken faction of blacks, led by State Senator Hank Sanders and his wife, Rose Sanders, that has worked to remove Mr. Smitherman. The group has plastered the city with posters saying "Joe's Gotta Go," although the Sanderses say they are not working directly for Mr. Perkins.
But while Mr. Perkins and his supporters point to a few criticisms of Mr. Smitherman's administration, their main argument against him is that he has never really left his segregationist core. They liken him to the former Gov. George C. Wallace as one who changed his language to suit the times, but could never escape his past.
As often as he has heard it, this argument still infuriates the mayor. Rummaging furiously through his office, he pulls out a campaign flier showing that 9 of 13 department heads are black, and digs through drawers to unearth tributes he has received over the years from black leaders.
"They know I'm not the devil they say I am, but Selma's their mecca," Mr. Smitherman said. "They want Selma because this is where it all happened, where people got the right to vote. What really bothers them is that this place of all places has a white mayor, but I still keep getting elected, don't I?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: James Perkins Jr. dismissed the argument that industry would leave if a black person were elected: "This is obviously a mayor who's panicking."; Joseph T. Smitherman says his re-election would promote diversity: "Everywhere that you've gone all black, the towns have gone down." (Photographs by Jay Sailors for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PEOPLES BANK & TRUST OF LINCOLN COUNTY (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); SHERIFFS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%); COMMUNITY BANKS (61%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH T SMITHERMAN (95%); JAMES PERKINS JR (88%); SELMA VOTE (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



232 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Copyright and Copying Wrongs: A Web Rebalancing Act

BYLINE: By AMY HARMON

 BODY:
WHEN Michael Robertson emerged last week from a Manhattan court, pale beneath his California tan, the chief executive of the MP3.com online music service told reporters that consumers want to be able to listen to their music from wherever they are. That MP3.com's technology allows them to do that. And that the law shouldn't get in the way.
Unfortunately for Mr. Robertson, a federal judge had just ruled that his San Diego-based start-up must pay Universal Music Group up to $250 million for infringing its copyrights. 
 There is a large legal irony here. MP3.com may be thoroughly punished (the company is appealing the ruling), even though it has tried to ensure that people pay for copies of the music they want to listen to, said Pamela Samuelson, co-director of the University of California's Berkeley Center for Law and Technology. By contrast, Napster, another high-profile Internet music company being sued by the major record labels, has so far eluded any legal sanction for its activities, even though it exists to give people free access to the same music.
The MP3.com verdict seems to underscore a mismatch between the intentions of traditional copyright law -- to strike a balance between the rights of owners and the interests of users -- and its effect in the Internet era.
As books and movies follow music from the physical to the digital realm, some legal experts argue that a new balance must be struck between copyright holders and the users of their works if copyright is to continue to drive economic and creative development.
"As these cases and others like them get sorted out we will learn to what extent copyright law is being interpreted to give the owners of content an indirect monopoly over the development of useful consumer information technologies," said Peter Jaszi, a law professor at American University. "That's really the stake in both of these cases."
For those just tuning into the digital music drama, Napster is a San Mateo, Calif.-based company whose software allows users to quickly find music files on the Internet and copy them to their own digital collection, without regard to copyright. Millions use the service daily.
My.MP3.com, the MP3.com service at issue in the company's court battle with Universal, took a very different approach, one that Judge Jed S. Rakoff commended in contrast to what he called, in an apparent reference to Napster, "the kind of lawless piracy seemingly characteristic of some others operating in this area."
My.MP3.com lets people listen to music they already own, but without carrying their CD's with them. All they need to do is log onto MP3.com's Web site from any Internet-connected device.
The service works by verifying ownership of every music CD a user inserts into the CD-ROM drive of his computer. A copy is then made from MP3.com's database of CD's and deposited into the user's on-line locker. A user could also buy a CD from an on-line retailer, which records the transaction with MP3.com.
Judge Rakoff found, however, that it was illegal for the company to copy tens of thousands of CD's into its database, and most legal experts agree that, under the letter of the law, it is.
Meanwhile, a recent federal judge's order that would also have shut down Napster was stayed by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, and some legal analysts, Ms. Samuelson and Mr. Jaszi among them, think Napster has a better chance of winning its battle with the major record labels than MP3.com.
Napster argues that, since users of the service aren't buying or selling the music they listen to, no one is infringing anyone's copyright. Therefore the company cannot be liable. In its appeals brief, the company cites the 1992 Audio Home Recording Act, which the same appeals court found in a previous case protects all noncommercial copying by consumers of digital and analog music recordings.
The brief states: "The line Congress drew was between commercial and noncommercial copying. If Plaintiffs have a quarrel with that line given the scale of noncommercial sharing that the Internet now facilitates, they must address those concerns to Congress."
Some legal experts and business executives suggest that the eventual outcome of the two cases may well provoke Congress to adjust the law to fit the realities of new technology.
MEANWHILE, though, the current system is seen as an obstacle by Internet music entrepreneurs. Doug Camplejohn, the chief executive of Myplay, a competitor of MP3.com, said the license terms now being offered by the record companies are not economically viable without charging consumers a subscription fee to get access to music they already own. For that reason, Myplay's two million users will continue to laboriously copy and upload their own CD's.
"There are a whole set of services that will grow the entire record industry as well as make opportunities for companies like ours that we are not able to do today because the law prevents us," Mr. Camplejohn said. "The consumers are ultimately the ones who end up suffering."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A half-hour of music can be loaded onto Casio's Wrist Audioplayer. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (85%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS INTERACTIVE INC (92%); NAPSTER INC (85%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); COPYRIGHT (90%); INTERNET AUDIO (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (89%); COPYRIGHT LAW (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); TRENDS (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); MUSIC (89%); VERDICTS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); JUDGES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LITIGATION (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); RECORD INDUSTRY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



233 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
We Know the Winners. Now, Let the Games Begin.

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
PATRIOTIC Americans can relax and Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, who has so cleverly endeared the United States to the rest of humanity by proclaiming America the world's one "essential nation," should be proud.
Why? Because at the 2000 Summer Olympic Games in Sydney, Australia, the United States will win 97 of the 888 medals awarded, more than any other nation, once again demonstrating America's physical and moral superiority over the rest of the world. 
 Sweaty nationalists in Germany, Russia, China and Australia will also have ample reason to cheer; each of those countries' athletes will win from 49 to 63 medals.
On the other hand, there will be much weeping, gnashing of teeth and public soul-searching in Japan and the United Kingdom, which will win fewer than 20 medals each.
Since the quadrennial jockfest doesn't begin for another five days, one might reasonably ask how anyone could read the future in this way.
The answer is simple: Two professors figured it out. In a study released on Aug. 28, Andrew Bernard, of the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College, and Meghan R. Busse, of the Yale School of Management, examined Summer Olympics medal counts for the last 40 years to see what factors determine how many medals each nation wins.
"I was so annoyed when people said we did well or didn't do well -- I didn't have anything to compare it to," Mr. Bernard said, explaining the statisticians' zeal to reduce romance to numbers that lies behind this esoteric research project.
But now he does, and so do the rest of us.
Like so many paradigm-shifting breakthroughs, the formula discovered by Mr. Bernard and Ms. Busse is beautiful in its simplicity.
Just two factors account for 95 percent of a nation's predicted medal count: the number of medals it won at a previous Olympics, and the overall size of its economy. (Bigger is better.)
Per-capita income is irrelevant, Mr. Bernard said. A large, poor country will win as many medals as a small, wealthy country, assuming they have the same overall national income.
The income-to-medal ratio is not linear, Mr. Bernard said. Because of limits on the number of athletes they can send to the Olympics, the largest, richest nations win a smaller share of medals than their share of the world economy.
For example, the United States would have a good chance of sweeping the gold, silver, and bronze medals in women's and men's basketball if it were allowed to send three teams instead of one.
In addition, increased training opportunities for athletes from poor nations have narrowed the gap between rich and poor over the last generation.
African runners regularly work out in the United States and Europe, and the International Olympic Committee sends some of the cash from the Games to Olympic committees in poor nations, which use the money to finance their own programs.
Of still greater importance than the size of a country's gross national product is its long-term record at the Games, Mr. Bernard said.
Japan, for example, has the world's second-largest economy, but in 1996 it won just 14 medals, fewer than Hungary, the Netherlands and Brazil.
This year, Mr. Bernard expects Japan to win 19 medals, far fewer than it should take home given its size. On the other hand, Australia consistently outperforms.
"If you have done well in the past, that's going to persist," Mr. Bernard said. "Once you develop infrastructure and training and facilities, and once you develop athletes, they do last for a couple of Olympics," he said.
That must be reassuring, especially for the athletes.
The professors' model has generally been successful when backtested against previous Olympic results. Used retrospectively on the 1996 Games, the formula showed that the United States should have won 101 medals, hitting America's total exactly.
It overestimated Germany's medal count, coming up with 77 medals for Germany, which actually won 65, , but was dead on with China's count of 50 medals and nearly nailed Russia's 63-medal haul.
STILL, do not expect the model to put to rest the only Olympic sport in which every nation excels.
That would be the post-Games handwringing over medal counts. Even the Australians, who won 41 medals in Atlanta, were upset that they had won only three golds.
"You have to find something to complain about," Mr. Bernard said.
So, now that the results are known: Let the Games begin!
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cuban synchronized swimmers in Sydney, training for the Olympics. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); AUSTRALIA (90%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (90%); 

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%); 

COMPANY: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (55%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (55%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AUSTRALIA (90%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (90%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (72%); BASKETBALL (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (61%); 

PERSON: ANDREW BERNARD (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



234 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY;
Time Over Money

BYLINE: By David Cay Johnston

 BODY:
Over all, Americans are richer than ever, but as the wise have known for generations, money does not buy happiness. A recent survey by PaineWebber adds more evidence.
Americans' household wealth rose 11 percent last year, to an average of $413,000, although the range varies wildly, with the bottom 40 percent having little or no net worth. 
 But as wealth increased and incomes rose, PaineWebber said, people wanted more time than money. The survey, conducted with the Gallup organization and involving 1,000 people nationwide, found that 35 percent were spending more on vacations, and that 60 percent planned to work in retirement, not for the money but for the enjoyment or the challenge.
The respondents also showed more willingness to pay for top-notch, trouble-free service or to accept deep discounts for no-frills service, but to reject anything in between.
A National Center for Health Statistics survey cited by PaineWebber showed that as income rose, so did stress levels. About 55 percent of people with incomes of more than $50,000 reported either a lot of stress or moderate stress in their lives, compared with 45 percent of those getting by on $20,000 to $25,000 and slightly more than 40 percent of those earning $7,000 to $10,000. David Cay Johnston
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); STATISTICS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



235 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 21; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: SEPTEMBER 4-8;
Are Colder Days Ahead for Wall Street?

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
First they sizzled, then they fizzled.
 Technology shares turned cool in post-Labor Day trading, as investors, reacting to a series of earnings warnings, chose to take profits after the market's hot August rally. 
 Several analysts also issued downgrades of prominent technology companies, including Intel, WorldCom and Micron Technology, citing concern that weak demand could result in lower-than-expected revenue growth in the coming months.
 There's some concern about a slowing of the economy, after the Federal Reserve's interest rate increases over the past year, said Barry Berman, head trader for Robert W. Baird & Company.
 The profit-taking was not out of line, he added. We had some big run-ups.
 The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index, which climbed nearly 12 percent last month, ended the week at 3,979.32, down 255.92, while the Dow Jones industrial average closed at 11,221.76, down 18.13.
 Mr. Berman predicted that trading would remain volatile this week. We're looking at the end-of-the-quarter portfolio adjustments and earnings pre-announcements. VIVIAN MARINO
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Charts: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"
Fisher Scientific
NYSE: FSH
The medical products distributor said it dropped plans to buy PSS World Medical, a rival, for $746.9 million. The deal was unpopular with investors, who were concerned about PSS World's financial health.
Friday's Close: $33.44
Week's Change: +52.42%
EST. '00 P/E: --
 
Litton Industries
NYSE: LIT
The company said earnings for its fiscal first quarter would fall 10 to 20 percent below the $1.13 a share earned a year earlier. Litton cited cost overruns on the warships and tankers it builds.
 
Friday's Close: $42.38
Week's Change: -24.16%
EST. '00 P/E: 8.57
 
Associates First Capital
NYSE: AFS
The consumer finance company agreed to be acquired by Citigroup in a stock deal valued at about $31.1 billion, or $42.49 a share.
Friday's Close: $39.84
Week's Change: +45.52%
EST. '00 P/E: 17.16
 
National Discount Brokers
NYSE: NDB
The financial services company said it expected to lose 6 to 9 cents a share in its fiscal first quarter. Analysts had expected a profit of 9 cents a share.
Friday's Close: $27.81
Week's Change: -22.61%
EST. '00 P/E: 15.78
 
Intermedia Communications
NNM: ICIX
WorldCom agreed to buy the telecommunications operator for $3 billion, or $39 a share. Intermedia's controlling stake in Digex, an operator of Web sites, was part of the deal.
Friday's Close: $29.25
Week's Change: +27.87%
EST. '00 P/E: --
 
DuPont
NYSE: DD
The company reduced its earnings projections for the year, citing higher fuel prices, weakened foreign currencies and soft markets for its chemical products.
Friday's Close: $40.81
Week's Change: -10.53%
EST. '00 P/E: 13.78
 
Agritope
NNM: AGTO
The biotechnology company agreed to be acquired by Exelixis, a rival, for about $68 million, or $14 a share, in stock.
Friday's Close: $11.00
Week's Change: +91.30%
EST. '00 P/E: --
 
FirstSpartan Financial
NNM: FSPT
BB&T, the bank holding company, agreed to buy FirstSpartan, which operates banks in South Carolina, in a stock swap valued at $103.9 million.
Friday's Close: $27.625
Week's Change: +35.58%
EST. '00 P/E: --
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MU (NASDAQ) (58%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT W BAIRD & CO INC (71%); INTEL CORP (58%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK INDEXES (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: BARRY A BERMAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



236 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Millions Still Going Hungry In the U.S., Report Finds

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 9

 BODY:
While fewer Americans are going hungry thanks to the country's booming economy, a federal report says that 31 million people grappled with hunger, or at least the fear of it, last year.
The annual report, released by the Agriculture Department on Friday, found that children and black families still make up a disproportionate number of those without enough food. 
 Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman said that he welcomed the 12 percent drop since 1995 in the number of Americans facing hunger, but that it was not enough.
"Though the report shows that hunger and food insecurity have declined since 1995, the fact is it remains unacceptably high despite the most prosperous economy in history," Mr. Glickman said.
The report said that about 17 percent of all children in the country, or roughly 12 million, faced hunger in 1999.
More than 21 percent of all black people went hungry or lived on the edge of hunger in 1999, the highest percentage of any racial group. A large percentage of Hispanics, 20.8 percent, faced a similar situation.
By contrast, only 7 percent of non-Hispanic whites went hungry or were what the report called "food insecure."
The report's findings were based on questions answered by 50,000 people studied by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Those who were classified as food insecure said that they were worried that their food would run out and that they often could not afford to eat balanced meals.
Those with more extreme problems said they ate less than they felt they should, cut the size of meals or skipped meals.
Single mothers with children were the most vulnerable to the problem, with nearly 30 percent of such households reporting food insecurity.
"The report comes with mixed feelings," said Lynn Parker, director of child nutrition for the Food Research and Action Center, a nonprofit organization.
"It's wonderful to see the number of food insecure people has dropped," she said, "due in large part to the economy and how well it's been doing."
But, she added, "there are still millions of children starving in the United States."
The West proved to be the hardest region in which to avoid hunger. About 12 percent of people living in the Western United States faced trouble finding food in 1999.
Only 8.3 percent of the people in Midwestern and Northeastern states went hungry.
Mark Nord, one of the authors of the report, credited the economy with lifting people out of poverty and reducing hunger.
"Food insecurity is down, hunger is down, while the average income is up," Mr. Nord said. "It is all directly related." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MIDWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); FOOD SECURITY (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STARVATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); DIETING (76%); NUTRITION (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); STATISTICS (71%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: MARK NORD (70%); DAN GLICKMAN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



237 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2175 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: HOME ECONOMICS;
Working Families Strain To Live Middle-Class Life

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
When Vice President Al Gore incorporated "working families" into his rhetoric last month and "hard-working middle-class families" this month as pivotal campaign phrases, he pointed a finger -- unintentionally perhaps -- at a central fact of American life: most of the nation's 72 million families feel they cannot make ends meet.
Three-quarters earn less than $75,000 a year and 45 percent of all families earn $30,000 to $75,000, the range of middle-class incomes in most of America. No one argues that middle-income families cannot put food on the table, pay the mortgage, own a car or two, take a modest vacation. What stresses them, sociologists and economist say, are the other outlays of middle-class life: new clothes, child care, lessons for the children, restaurants, movies, home decoration, computers, big-screen television sets, stereo systems, Christmas gifts, and saving for college and retirement. 
 " 'Working families' is a code phrase with a variety of meanings, and one is middle-class people trying to live only on wages, not earnings from investments," said Barrie Thorne, a sociologist and the co-director of the Center for Working Families at the University of California at Berkeley. "They can't do it and they feel nonaffluent and not adequately compensated for the number of hours they must work to make ends meet."
They are people like Tracey and Carrie Jones, who live with their two sons in a ranch house in Madeira, Ohio, a Cincinnati suburb. Tracey Jones's $45,000 salary as a designer of labeling machines rose from $40,000 in 1996, when his company elevated him to permanent employee, with health insurance, from temporary status, thanks to the booming economy and the tight labor market. The family's credit card debt is shrinking, partly because of Mr. Jones's higher income, but also, Ms. Jones says, because of her newly developed resistance to impulse buying, particularly of clothing and toys.
But unanticipated expenses force the Joneses to dip periodically into $600 in cash savings, or to overcharge on credit cards. August was such a month. A car alternator had to be replaced, for $143. Ms. Jones, who is 38, decided, while shopping at a Sam's Warehouse Club, to spend $250 to stockpile packaged snack food for school lunches. The snacks were on sale. "That purchase was a mistake," she said. The semiannual $315 car insurance premium came due. And the credit card bill somehow jumped to $450.
So Ms. Jones, who already works two evenings a week for a dentist, earning $4,500 a year, has taken a second job, washing luncheon dishes two days a week, four hours a day, at her sons' elementary school, earning $41 a week. "I had volunteered in the cafeteria and I knew a lot of the women, and they asked me if I wanted to work there," she said. "It is hard work washing dishes and I am exhausted when I get home."
Mr. Gore says his tax breaks and spending proposals would enrich this broad swath of middle-income families whose incomes had languished for more than 20 years, through Democratic and Republican administrations. Gov. George W. Bush's camp increasingly insists that his tax proposals include significant cuts for this group, too. Whatever the merits of their various arguments, the emphasis has clearly shifted. Until Mr. Gore first made a point of helping "working families" and then the relabeled "hard-working middle class," the Clinton administration had pushed a different emphasis. The president spoke repeatedly of the "unprecedented prosperity" that Americans enjoyed from the economic expansion that gathered steam in the late 1990's.
And families are doing better. Their incomes, adjusted for inflation, had plunged in the early 1990's for all but the wealthiest 20 percent. Now that lost ground has been recovered, and then some. Median family income -- half of the nation's 72 million families earn more and half less -- is likely to pass $47,000 when the Census Bureau announces the 1999 number late this month; it was $46,737 in 1998. The gain is small potatoes compared with the last high point, $44,974 in 1989, an increase since that year of about $2,000 or 4.5 percent. But 1993 provides a more optimistic comparison. That year was the low point for family income in the 1990's, only $41,691 adjusted for inflation, and the improvement since then is a much more respectable $5,300 or 12.7 percent.
"Middle-income families are definitely a few dollars ahead of where they were and they are happy to be there," said Jared Bernstein, a labor economist at the Economic Policy Institute and a co-author of the institute's newly updated biennial analysis of work in America. "People are more likely today to hold full-time jobs with health insurance than part-time or temporary work, without benefits. But the stock market boom has not reached middle-income families in any important way, and while family income is up, so is family debt and hours spent at work."
Rising hours, in fact, have done more than rising wages to push up family income, and stress. From 1995 through 1998, the latest year for which figures are available, middle-income family members added 70 hours a year on average to their work time, or nearly 1.8 additional weeks. From 1989 through 1998, the increase in work time was 3.4 weeks -- often run up by people like Ms. Jones, supplementing a spouse's wages.
"I once read in the Reader's Digest that families can't make it on one income because we want so much," she said. "I think that is true."
The income from all the additional hours has lifted some families beyond the $75,000 that pollsters find to be the minimum that a family of four feels it must have to afford a middle-class life. "In the New York metropolitan area, you can have six-figure family incomes and still feel like you are struggling," said Geoffrey Garin, president of Peter Hart Research Associates, which surveys public opinion. Still, families with earnings above $75,000 are the ones most likely to tell pollsters that they earn enough to lead the life they want to lead, says Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center.
Vicki and James Stogdill in Des Moines are in the above-$75,000 category, paying all their bills from their incomes and saving money. They hope to build a larger house on a suburban lot they have bought, now that they have paid off the mortgage on their present three-bedroom home. But the $90,000 a year that they take home from Stogdill's TV and Appliances, the family business on Franklin Avenue they now own and operate, comes at a price that Vicki Stogdill resents. "If I could, I would get out in a heartbeat," Ms. Stogdill said.
But they cannot get out, they say. In the tight labor market, they cannot find or afford the people to do all the tasks they do. So they put in 110 hours a week, he from 7 a.m. until 9 p.m. as the general manager, running the sales and repair operations, and she from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. as the administrator, in charge of the computer system, personnel and advertising.
Mr. Stogdill's father started the business in 1957, and Mr. Stogdill, who is 43, remembers an easier pace in earlier days, when his father would close the store periodically for a week or so of vacation. The arrival of giant discounters, competing for sales, put a stop to that leisurely practice. If anything, the booming economy has increased the pressure on the Stogdills to work long hours, and Ms. Stogdill, who is 35, handles child care by bringing the couple's only child to the store.
Jonathan, now 15 months, is growing up in a playpen in his mother's crowded office and along the aisles among the television sets, refrigerators, washing machines, stoves and other appliances. "He does really well here," Ms. Stogdill said. "Now if there is a second child, that could be tough."
The sense of "fulfillment in shaping my child" is the reason Ms. Stogdill keeps Jonathan with her. And the savings in child care, a major cost for middle-income families, helps to keep the Stogdills in the black. So does their frugality, which surprises people aware of their income, Ms. Stogdill says.
"The prosperity that I keep hearing about is not what keeps money in my bank account and my bills paid every month; it is the fact that we are spending carefully," she said. "If I don't need new shoes, I don't buy them. Most people do. We drive old cars. We do spend $800 a month on takeout food and restaurants because we work so many hours. And we tithe at the church, $6,000 a year. But we have not gone out and built the new house yet. Bankers are trying to loan us the money. They tell us we are nuts, build it now. But we want to wait until the loan for the lot is paid off."
Ronald and Rhoda Wright, in Bloomington, Ind., have grown similarly cautious since she was laid off in 1998 from a job paying $10.60 an hour -- $22,000 a year -- at a television assembly plant in Bloomington. Thomson Consumer Electronics closed the plant and moved the operation to Mexico.
Most middle-income people have only a high school degree or a year or two of college, and the Joneses, Stogdills and Wrights fall into this category. Still, the booming economy has generated plenty of $7- and $8-an-hour jobs for this level of education, and Ms. Wright, who is 50, says she could have easily jumped into one.
"That is not a livable wage," she said.
Instead she used $13,000 in severance pay to reduce family debt and enrolled in a two-year bookkeeping course. She collected $236 a week in unemployment insurance for 18 months to supplement her husband's $36,000 salary as a maintenance worker at Indiana University.
"I was never a big shopper," she said, "but I spent on birthdays and Christmas for my two daughters and two grandchildren. If we were out for a drive and I saw something I liked, I bought it. Maybe patio furniture."
Graduation with a bookkeeping degree came last spring and, still resisting the $8-an-hour offers, even $9, Ms. Wright finally started last month at the Hoosier Advertising Company. There she handles accounts receivable and outgoing payments, at a salary of $26,000, the equivalent of $12.50 an hour. "I knew what I was worth with my schooling," she said.
There will be some renewed spending -- a $7,500 metal shed, for example, to house her husband's tractor on their small spread. But most of her income will be used to replenish the family's almost-depleted savings. "We probably went from $30,000 to $1,700 to support ourselves while she was in school," Mr. Wright said.
At 55, he hopes to retire in two or three years, although starting 18 months after he retires and until he qualifies for Medicare at age 65, he will have to spend $800 of his $1,200-a-month pension for health insurance premiums. "That is highway robbery," he said, "but I have worked at the university for 34 years and I am not going to stay another 10 years."
Ptosha Ford, a 30-year-old nurse and instructor of nurses at Memphis Hospital School of Nursing in Memphis, earns $36,000 and is single. But the costs that squeeze middle-income families squeeze her, too, she says, and for two years now, she has taught nursing part time at a community college, adding $10,000 a year to her hospital income.
"To me that is still not enough," she said. Until last fall, she had lived with her parents, an arrangement that she said impinged on her independence. Rather than rent, Ms. Ford moved directly into her own home, which she had built for $118,000 in a new suburban development. A mortgage rate of only 5.27 percent keeps her monthly house payments, including property taxes, at $850, roughly the cost of renting an apartment in Memphis, she said.
It is the other costs that get her: car insurance, a cell phone, a beeper, cable television, beauty parlor and nail salon, gasoline, groceries, dry cleaning, home security, Internet connection, 403 (b) pension contribution, health insurance. As a preacher's daughter, she tithes $300 a month. And there are the credit card bills, which average $500 a month.
"I buy little things," she said, "like clothes and household items or a piece of art, and I pay for vacations on credit cards. I visited a friend in Houston this year, and I plan to go to Jamaica in October for a week."
Taxes are a sore point with Ms. Ford. "I don't agree with high income taxes," she said, "and I feel like Social Security won't exist when I retire."
Ms. Ford says that Mr. Bush might do more than Mr. Gore to lower her taxes and to resolve the Social Security problem, but she is voting for Mr. Gore. "He is from my home state," she said.
The voting preferences of the Wrights, the Stogdills and the Joneses seem similarly disconnected from their experiences as middle-income families. The Wrights, union members, normally vote Democratic, and are leaning that way now. The Stogdills, conservatives, are voting Republican. And the Joneses, who like some of the middle-income relief Mr. Gore proposes, make abortion their priority issue. They are against it, and therefore for Mr. Bush.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vicki Stogdill, with son, Jonathan, and her husband earn $90,000 from their appliance store in Des Moines, but work long hours. (Eli Lucero for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Tracey and Carrie Jones with sons, Scott, left, and Neil, in Madeira, Ohio. Although they earn $50,000, the Joneses must dip into savings for unexpected expenses. Ptosha Ford, at right, who earns $36,000 as a nurse and $10,000 as a nursing instructor, says that pays the mortgage on her Memphis home but does not cover expenses like car insurance and a cell phone. (Rollin Riggs for The New York Times); (Mark Lyons for The New York Times)(pg. 32)
 
Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Little Gain"
Median family income, adjusted for inflation in 1998 dollars.
 
Graph tracks median family income since 1979.
(Source: Census Bureau)(pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: GORE'S INC (58%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (92%); FAMILY (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CREDIT CARDS (85%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); CHRISTMAS (68%); DENTAL INSURANCE (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%); INTERIOR DECORATING (53%); PACKAGING EQUIPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



238 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Russia Poised to Cut Military by One-Third

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 9

 BODY:
Late last month, President Vladimir V. Putin faced a room full of angry Russians, the relatives of the 118 men who perished on the nuclear submarine Kursk. He told them bluntly that Russia "had to have a smaller army," one that was better equipped and "technically perfect" to protect soldiers and sailors from disaster and defend national interests.
On Friday, Defense Minister Marshal Igor D. Sergeyev appeared to promise just such a force. While visiting a tank test range outside Moscow, he was asked by reporters to comment on a report that the armed forces would be reduced by 350,000 between 2001 and 2003, a cut of about one-third, from 1.2 million members to about 850,000. 
 "Decisions to that effect have been made," he said, "and proposals on how to proceed are being drafted for the president."
Marshal Sergeyev's almost offhand confirmation that Mr. Putin has approved deep cuts in the military followed weeks of speculation in the Russian news media and a marathon session between Mr. Putin and his national security advisers Aug. 11 on the future of the military.
That meeting occurred a day before the Kursk sank during military maneuvers in the Barents Sea.
When Mr. Putin later met with the families of the Kursk crew, he hinted that profound decisions on the reconstruction of Russia's armed forces had been made. He told them that "one has to live according to one's income" and that Russia had "wasted money" trying to support the military structure that the Soviet Union had maintained during the cold war. What the country needed, he made plain, was a smaller force.
"These decisions have been passed," Mr. Putin said.
The details of the secret session between Mr. Putin and his advisers still have to emerge fully. But reports in the Russian press this week said that Mr. Putin had decided to cut 400,000 members of Russia's armed forces, including its many domestic security and intelligence forces. Marshal Sergeyev's comments were in response to these reports.
Russian military officials say the force-reduction plan will reach Mr. Putin's desk in the coming days. It seems clear that the Russian leader is undertaking one of the most difficult military reorganizations since the heyday of the Soviet Union, when Moscow supported 4.3 million troops in uniform, masses of tank divisions facing Europe, a deep-water navy and a strategic nuclear arsenal rivaling that of the United States.
Marshal Sergeyev did not give a detailed breakdown of the cuts envisaged, but military officials have been quoted as saying that ground forces are to be cut by 180,000, the navy by more than 50,000, the air force by about 40,000, Interior Ministry troops by 20,000, the Federal Security Service and Government Communications Service by 25,000 and other security forces by 15,000 or more.
Mr. Putin returned from New York this morning and closeted himself with his senior advisers as members of Parliament and the military establishment weighed in on the debate over military power.
The chairman of the Parliament's budget committee, Aleksandr Zhukov, said the draft 2001 budget envisages a very large growth in expenditure for the military, suggesting that Mr. Putin may be pursuing a strategy of raising pay levels in the military as he slashes its numbers.
After years of contraction that have thrown millions of Russian officers and soldiers into a depressed economy on meager pensions, Mr. Putin now faces the politically wrenching task of cutting hundreds of thousands more active-duty slots. Many of these people may be ill-prepared to find work in a market economy that, while improving, has contracted by nearly half over the past decade.
Russia inherited a two-million-member military establishment after the Soviet Union broke up in 1991, and President Boris N. Yeltsin struggled unsuccessfully to cut it to 1.5 million during his first term in office. After Mr. Yeltsin's re-election in 1996, he appointed Marshal Sergeyev as defense minister and over the next four years was able to reduce the level from 1.7 million to 1.2 million by attrition and early retirements.
The newspaper Kommersant reported today that as many as 200,000 military personnel are currently near retirement and nearly 100,000 empty slots in the military are unfilled. But the newspaper added that even if the problem can be partly solved through a decrease in the number of conscripts, the upcoming reduction will be the widest.
The former deputy commander of Russian ground forces, Eduard A. Vorobyov, now a member of Parliament, said the sinking of the Kursk has given Mr. Putin a political impetus to push forward quickly with painful cuts.
"I think it is a certain impulse for everybody," he said, "including the president as the supreme commander. No matter whether we wanted to or not, we had to come to the decision made today."
The retired general became famous for resigning his commission rather than command the Russian assault on the rebellious republic of Chechnya in December 1994. His endorsement of Mr. Putin's plan indicated that there is significant political support among at least some military leaders for a rational restructuring of the armed forces, even if that means further cuts.
When Mr. Putin met with his security advisers last month, he told his commanders that the structure of the armed forces is hardly optimal.
"How can it be considered optimal if training is not conducted in many units, pilots almost do not fly and sailors almost do not put to sea?" he asked.
Mr. Putin said he was after a "balanced decision," one that his advisers said would plan for rebuilding the military over 15 years with a greater emphasis on conventional forces and a reduction in the autonomy and prestige of the Strategic Rocket Forces, which have been under separate command since the 1970's.
The Russian leader did not specifically refer to the military's performance in the past year in Chechnya. Military commanders there have complained that they have been fighting with outdated tanks, helicopters and aircraft while Russia's military industries sell their best products and technology abroad.
And due to the unpopularity of military service, the army has failed to meet its monthly conscript quotas in the face of widespread draft avoidance. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARCTIC OCEAN (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARCTIC OCEAN (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARMED FORCES (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); COLD WAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); ARMIES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); APPROVALS (72%); AIR FORCES (71%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



239 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Page 21; Column 1; Sophisticated Traveler Magazine

LENGTH: 3006 words

HEADLINE: Greece At Its Most Greek

BYLINE: By Phyllis Rose; Phyllis Rose is working on a sequel to "The Year of Reading Proust: A Memoir in Real Time" (Counterpoint).

 BODY:
I believe that a traveler in a new place should buy something, preferably through bargaining. Buy something, make a friend, get information. It's the human contact, not the acquisition, that counts. Consequently, and not to satisfy any low material desires, I was bargaining for a hand-woven cotton tablecloth in Nafplio.
Even in Greece, even in Nafplio (or Nauplion, as it is also called), even in a souvenir shop where hardly anything sells for more than $40, we had all entered this new May week in a state of anxiety about Wall Street. The store owner, while spiritedly taking part in our negotiation, was keeping an eye on the television above the counter. CNN was about to report on how the American stock market, seven hours behind us, had opened. The previous week had been disastrous, and this was either a real crash, if the market opened low, or yet another hard ride, if it rallied. 
 When your grins bin sniff, Mr. Roussos, the shop owner, said with a conspiratorial twinkle that suggested I should understand his allusion and appreciate his savvy.
Pardon me?
What they say: When your Mr. Grinsbin sniff, the rest of world go to hospital.
When Greenspan sneezes, the rest of the world gets pneumonia, and Nafplio's tourist business gets even worse than it is. The armies of tourists from various nations in bus-size battalions of 80 have left the field here. This is a blessing for the independent traveler, if hard on local businessmen.
Nafplio is the prettiest and most lovable city I've seen in Greece. The setting of the red-roofed Old Town, on the Bay of Argolis, backed by the rocky heights of Acronauplia and even higher Palamidi, is spectacular. For centuries, Venetians and Turks took turns ruling Nafplio, leaving behind palpable layers of elegance and exoticism. At one end of the immense, marble-paved piazza, Constitution Square, is an arcaded brick building constructed by the Venetians in the 18th century (now the Archaeological Museum); at the other end is a converted Turkish mosque. Bougainvillea grows through the wrought-iron balconies of many neo-Classical mansions and spills overhead on narrow streets. In the evenings, tavernas put out tables and chairs in these alleys, so you can eat and drink beneath the stars and flowers.
Here, in 1821, Greeks won independence by storming the fortress at the top of Palamidi, taking it from the Turks after a siege of more than a year. Nafplio became a center for philhellenic political activity. The first Greek parliament was here, and for six years, until 1834, this was the capital of Greece. I have an easy time here imagining I'm in the freedom-seeking, passionate, semibarbaric, Western, Eastern, silk-and-velvet, early-19th-century Greece that Byron fought for.
I am thinking of the famous painting of Byron in what he called his Albanian outfit, a red-and-yellow striped silk bandanna around his forehead. That morning my husband, Laurent, and I saw many costumes of even greater splendor at the Folk Art Museum (formally the Peloponnesian Folklore Foundation), dresses to make Christian Lacroix frantic with envy, embroidered velvets on top of silks, silks on velvet, gold embroidered vests, silver embroidered waistbands, coin necklaces, metal breastplates, life-size mannequins swathed, wrapped and decorated as vividly and imaginatively as ever I've seen outside the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The Folklore Foundation specializes in weaving, embroidery, clothing and jewelry, making it -- along with the Nafplio Archaeological Museum, with its fantastically patterned Mycenaean pottery -- a design inspiration. For me, it helped people the city with fantasy figures in colorful clothes uniting to throw off the yoke of oppression.
After my negotiation for the tablecloth was completed, Mr. Roussos and I advanced quickly from matters of world economy to where to eat, swim, stroll and sleep in Nafplio. For strolling, he recommended the walk along the base of Acronauplia to the beach of Karathona. For swimming, he recommended the Arvanitia beach. For sleeping, he recommended the Pension Marianna. Quiet as the grave.
We, however, were staying at the Xenia Palace hotel, according to my information the only luxury hotel in town, set sensationally atop the Acronauplia, looking over the roofs of the Old Town to the bay and distant mountains of the Argolid. An elevator, I'd read, takes you down from the hotel through the heart of the rock and deposits you in the center of town. That sounded great. When I made the reservation, I imagined a grand old converted structure, like the San Domenico in Taormina.
But our arrival was unpromising, even disconcerting. First, few people seemed able to tell us how to find the hotel. When our Athenian driver, Kristos, finally found the right road and a hotel that said "Xenia," it looked derelict and was, in fact, closed. The Xenia Palace was farther up the mountain, a modern building aging badly. A thick cable blocked us from pulling up to it. We had to leave the car about 100 yards from the entrance -- no porters or bellboys in sight -- and walk through an empty, graceless lobby to the front desk.
Greeks usually care about the quality of hospitality. A cordial reception has been valued since Homeric times. We'd gotten used to better welcomes. I was so unnerved by our reception that I demanded to know if there were any good reason we could not drive to the front door. At first the man at reception avoided the question, but finally he admitted there were "structural problems." No more than five cars could be in front of the hotel at any one time without danger of road collapse. They weren't taking any chances.
I don't want to dwell on the strangeness of the Xenia Palace, where we and our traveling companions, Ron and Joanne, seemed to be the only guests. Joanne and I both took a Wildean dislike to the avocado-colored bathroom fixtures ("Either this wallpaper goes or I do," was Oscar Wilde's dying quip) and, especially, the sinks, which looked like urinals. The lighting in the rooms was too dim for reading. The elevator down to town deposited us at the end of a tunnel, on the ceiling of which were stuck what seemed to be Styrofoam blocks painted green (to deaden screams?); the walls looked like high-school lockers and shelves had been ripped off them.
This creepy, until recently government-run hotel, with its spectacular placement and views all squandered, is the town's biggest problem. As I was too dumb to understand immediately, no more than five cars at the front door means no buses, and no buses means no tour groups, and no tour groups means few guests. Add the avocado bathroom fixtures and the urinal-sinks and you have a real disaster, a supposedly high-end hotel that appeals to no one. With the luxury-class Xenia Palace empty, the first-class Xenia down the hill closed and the other first-class hotel, the Amfitrion, also closed, it was no wonder Nafplio seemed light on tourists. Groups visiting Mycenae and Epidaurus, who might use Nafplio as a base, stay at the Amalia, miles out of town, or in Tolo, farther down the coast.
This situation won't last long. The Xenia Palace, the Xenia and the Amfitrion have all been bought by the hotel group that owns the world-class Elounda Beach Hotel in Crete. They and the town are ripe for renovation. So if you like the authenticity and charm of semiabandoned places, go to Nafplio quickly.
You are likely to find unexpected pleasures. For example, the Komboloi Museum, around the corner from the Folk Art Museum.
The Greeks have quickly picked up the connection between museums and museum shops, and the Komboloi Museum looked like a bead store. One man was at work stringing beads under a sign that said "Workshop." A younger man stood behind the counter.
Can you tell me what komboloi would be in English? I asked him.
He waved his hand around the store in reply.
Beads? I said.
Not beads. Special beads. Beads for this, he said.
He picked up a strand of amber beads loosely strung on a red silk thread and started pushing them to one side. Worry beads!
Where's the museum? I asked.
He pointed up some narrow stairs and to a sign asking the equivalent of $1.50 for admission. Stairs and price seemed steep, but we were intrigued: what would a worry-bead museum consist of?
It was an extensive collection of prayer beads -- Buddhist, Hindu, Muslim, Catholic -- with an explanation of how they evolved one from the other: Muslim traders brought prayer beads from Asia and adapted them to Islam; in the late 12th century, Crusaders brought them back from Constantinople to Catholic Europe, where they metamorphosed into rosary beads. Buddhist strands have 108 beads; Muslim beads track the 99 identities of Allah, usually with 33 beads for three prayers each, and rosaries most often consist of 5 groups of 10 small beads with larger beads separating them. From these prayer beads, the strictly secular Greek worry beads evolved, having no specified number of beads to a strand, chosen for aesthetic considerations like feel and look, a combination toy and meditation device. We didn't see many in use in present-day Nafplio, but they proved popular presents for harried Americans upon our return to the United States.
In the afternoon we took the walk Mr. Roussos had recommended. Just beyond the pier where fishing boats tie up, the walk under Palamidi starts. A wide, flat, stone-paved pathway heads around the other side of the rocky peninsula, between cliff and water. We passed a seaside taverna, an abandoned swim club and the entrance to the nearly 1,000 steps that lead up to the fortress, from which there are spectacular Santorini-like views of an immense sea, distant land and dwellings far below. Quickly, we were beyond any buildings, walking between red cliffs and blue water. Birds, roosting in the cliff face, flew over our heads and their song filled the air. An old woman, her hair in a gray bun, gathered herbs growing from the rocks. We exchanged a kalispera ("good evening"). At any point, we could have walked out onto rocks and gone for a swim. Farther along, men were fishing and others swimming at what must have been Karathona Beach.
Returning, we stopped to watch the sunset at one of the dozens of cafes lining the waterfront and looked across the Bay of Argolis toward hazy blue mountains massed in receding rows. A tiny island in the bay, close to the port, bears the picturesque remains of a fortress. It's called Bourtzi and is festooned now with bougainvillea. (Funny how charming military installations can look with the passage of time; they seem to age better than hotels.) Boats leave every half-hour for Bourtzi -- the trip takes five minutes -- and you can witness the sunset from there. But we preferred the cafe.
We sat shaded by market umbrellas big and high enough to seem like ceilings and birds flew underneath them. We sipped our Scotch-and-sodas and observed neighbors who were talking on cell phones and handling paperwork as they consumed enormous pastries and coffees in what for them was midafternoon. Again, the comparison that presented itself to me was with Santorini, where we had recently been. It is a fact universally acknowledged that the sunset seen from Oia in Santorini is the most beautiful sunset in the world. But the sunset seen from a waterfront cafe in Nafplio seemed to me every bit as beautiful and vastly less attended.
Greeks eat late, 9 p.m. at the earliest. So we had time to investigate the restaurants Mr. Roussos had suggested. We had no trouble finding the Omorpho Tavernaki, two streets back from the waterfront, in a relatively empty part of town. People, all Greek, were eating and talking vivaciously at tables set up in the street. Basilis, another place Mr. Roussos recommended, was more of a challenge because it's on a street with many tavernas whose customers were eating outside. It was hard to tell where one taverna ended and another began. My husband and I performed the restaurant-scouter stroll, eyeing menus, checking out ambience, glancing into people's plates as they ate, all the while trying to look as if we were on some other mission entirely. Unfortunately, my husband turned on his heel and, pretending not to look at anything, walked straight into me. The waiters could not keep from laughing. Thus we made up our minds where to dine.
We waited in the middle of Constitution Square for our friends to rejoin us. They had gone to the island of Hydra for the day. The square has white marble paving, and many children were trying to ride bikes on the slippery surface. They fell and were brave or cried and were comforted. It seemed strange and a pleasure to watch people living their everyday lives. In Athens's Syntagma Square, you see fake folk dancing. In the Piazza Navona in Rome, there's nary a native in sight. Local people come to this square in the evening with their kids. Waiting, we watched them and also indulged in the peculiarly satisfying task of deciphering a non-Roman alphabet. From ENNIKH TPABEZA we made out ETHNIK TRAPEZE and from there it was a short but exhilarat-ing step to National Bank. This building's architectural style is one you don't often encounter: neo-Mycenaean. Yet there is a fully functioning A.T.M. just inside the door, which opens to the same card that opens the door of our Citizens Bank in Connecticut.
Ron and Joanne, wearing white cotton shirts they'd acquired on Hydra, joined us soon, and we had a terrific dinner at Omorpho. There was no table free when we arrived, but that was not a problem: they put another table and four chairs on the street for us. We ate croquettes of a green vegetable resembling spinach, stuffed zucchini, grilled local sausages and veal chops. We ate, as is normal in Greece, exactly as much as we wanted, got our food quickly and were waited on efficiently and with no pretension. We drank two bottles of Nimea, an excellent red wine that comes from vineyards we had passed on our way to Nafplio. The bill was $37, service included. We had a sticker-shock moment of a novel sort. Anyway, we were feeling flush because the stock market had rallied.
My husband and I were heading from Nafplio to Olympia, a three-hour drive, but Ron and Joanne had decided to go right on to Delphi. Kristos found a Nafplio cabby who would take them there in a comfortable car at a reasonable price. So we left separately the next day, Laurent and I in a yellow Athens cab, Joanne and Ron in a red Nafplio one.
When Telemachus, in search of Odysseus, arrived at a new castle, he would usually be given dinner before he was expected to impart his lineage and his purpose in traveling. We stopped for gas a mile or so outside of town. The gas station owner, while filling the tank, said to Kristos, I know who you are. You are driving one of the two American couples who were staying at the Xenia Palace. Are you the ones headed to Delphi or to Olympia?
So our herald revealed our identity and destination.
 
Getting There, Staying There
Nafplio is a three- or four-hour drive south of Athens. We wanted to tour the Peloponnesus by car but were worried about driving in Greece, which is nerve-racking at best. TAXIS are a good alternative. The cost is about $260 a day, and four people can fit in one cab, which is often a Mercedes. Kristos Exarhopoulou, the cabdriver who took us to Nafplio, Olympia and Delphi, proved to be an excellent driver, a tactful and intelligent companion and a resourceful representative; his telephone number is 30-197-68557.
There are pleasant, though not luxurious, places to stay in Nafplio. Perhaps the most highly recommended is the BYRON HOTEL, 2 Platonos Street (telephone: 30-752-22351; fax: 30-752-26338), in the heart of the Old Town; there are 18 rooms, with showers, air-conditioning and excellent views; prices range from about $50 to about $60; breakfast costs about $2.75; no restaurant.
Also in the Old Town, near Constitution Square, is the ILION HOTEL, 6 Kapodistriou Street (30-752-25114; fax: 30-752-24497), which has 10 uniquely decorated suites; all have baths and air-conditioning; prices range from about $55 to about $110, including breakfast; no restaurant. The KING OTHON HOTEL, 4 Farmakopoulou (telephone and fax: 30-752-27595), is inexpensive and the rooms somewhat cramped and basic, but the neo-Classical building is recently restored and the hallways and exterior are beautiful. There are 11 rooms, and a double, with bath and air-conditioning, costs from about $50 to about $60, including breakfast; no restaurant. Farther up on the Acronauplia and a little outside of the central (and perhaps noisy) heart of the Old Town, is the MARIANNA PENSION, 9 Potamianou Street (30-752-24256; fax: 30-752-21783), recommended by Mr. Roussos; all 14 rooms have bathrooms and air-conditioning; a double is about $45, including breakfast. The XENIA PALACE, where we had a less than ideal stay, is under new ownership and scheduled for renovation.
 "Give us this day our daily squid" was Joanne's assessment of Greek food. Among other wonderful fried fish specialties, I especially liked the whitebait, tiny and consumed by the dozen. Squeeze on lemon, and, by a miracle of timing, they stay crisp until you've reached the last mouthful, only then becoming sodden and inedible. Greek salads are also predictably good, as are olives, feta and stuffed grape leaves. Forget about butter when you're in Greece. They don't understand it.
The Napflio restaurants that we checked out all had menus similar to that of the Omorpho Tavernaki, 1 Kostonopoulou Street (30-752-25944), where we had a meal that included stuffed zucchini, grilled local sausage and veal chops; the prices were extremely reasonable, often less than $10 a person.
One last thing: eat yogurt and honey for breakfast. Greek yogurt tastes more like sour cream than it does like our yogurt, and with Greek honey, it's the food of the gods. Phyllis Rose
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above: Aris Evangelinos, owner of the Komboloi Museum, calms his nerves. Left, Above: Basilis, on a street filled with tavernas. Below: The church of St. Spiridou.; Left: A street leading to Constitution Square. Above: Ruins of Bourtzi fortress.; Mountains rise in the haze across the Bay of Argolis; the ruined island fortress of Bourtzi floats at the right. (Lisa Limer for The New York Times)
 
Map

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GREECE (94%); TURKEY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (79%); 

COMPANY: OLD TOWN MILL (53%); OLD TOWN COPYWORKS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREECE (94%); TURKEY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ARCHAEOLOGY (66%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (64%); PAINTING (61%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



240 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Page 47; Column 1; Sophisticated Traveler Magazine

LENGTH: 3427 words

HEADLINE: Nantucket, Aglow In Shades Of Gray

BYLINE: By Lisa Fugard; Lisa Fugard is a fiction writer.

 BODY:
The roses and foxgloves were muted splashes of color in the evening's last light, and I wandered through the town of Nantucket a little in awe. I'd never seen so many gray houses. The term "weathered gray siding," frequently used to describe their restrained beauty, doesn't do them justice. Nantucket houses seem to know weather: they've been intimate with rain squalls gusting off the Atlantic and the fog that periodically enshrouds the island, with winter's northeasters and, of course, resplendent sunny summer days.
Winding lanes led me past traditional saltboxes and handsome early Federal-style homes crowned with austere roof walks. On the cobblestone streets I saw elegant brick mansions with delicate balustrade trim on their roofs, grand Greek Revival houses with pillars and porticoes and a few flamboyant Victorians. There are hundreds of authentic 18th- and 19th-century houses in the town, but the one I fell in love with, on reaching the top of Sunset Hill Lane, predates all of them. The Oldest House, as it's called, was built in 1686, just 27 years after Nantucket Island was settled. With its tiny diamond-pane windows and huge sloping roof, it looked more like a landlocked ark than a house, and on my first evening on Nantucket it stood stoic on its hillock as a light rain nuzzled its shingles. 
 I visited Nantucket, Mass., in late June of this year, but my initial encounter with the island -- which lies 30 miles at sea from the south shore of Cape Cod -- happened several years ago, through literature.
"Be it distinctly recorded here," wrote Herman Melville in "Moby-Dick," "that the Nantucketers were the first among mankind to harpoon with civilized steel the great Sperm Whale; and that for half a century they were the only people of the whole globe who so harpooned him."
My new understanding of how whaling is woven into the island's history began when I checked into the Anchor Inn for my five-day visit. The house was built for Archibald Hammond, a ship's captain. The rooms are named after Nantucket whaling ships, and I fell asleep to the two-toned bleat of a foghorn.
The first settlers on Nantucket had planned to raise sheep but eventually began hunting whales, first from the shore and then from whaling boats. When Nantucketers invented the tryworks, a brick furnace built on deck that turned whaling ships into small factories capable of processing blubber, the oceans of the world opened up to them.
Ocean voyages that lasted for years? Women pacing roof walks, searching for signs of their husbands' ships? It seemed rather romantic to me, until I set foot in the Whaling Museum on Broad Street, one block away from the harbor. Doug Burch, a staff member at the museum, was giving a talk on the gruesome business of whaling, and I took a seat in the back of Sanderson Hall, the walls of which are lined with a fierce array of harpoons, lances and flensing knives.
"Thar she blows!" Mr. Burch cried, and he strode over to an authentic 30-foot whaleboat in which six men once pursued sperm whales that could reach 100 feet in length. For the next 45 minutes he took me on a heart-thumping journey, peppering his talk with evocative whaling terminology such as "Nantucket sleigh ride" -- once harpooned, the enraged whale often surged across the ocean for hours, dragging the men on a wild, bucking ride.
The museum's collections include dramatic oil paintings of anatomically dubious whales flipping boats into the air, the skeleton of a 43-foot finback whale and intriguing artifacts like the harpoon head that once belonged to Peter Paddock. While captain of the Lion he harpooned a whale that got away; 13 years later, he successfully harpooned the same whale and found his harpoon head buried in the animal's flesh. The scrimshaw collection conjures up images of more tender moments at sea. On the days when they weren't being dragged across the ocean by furious sperm whales, the sailors carved whale ivory. These men were homesick. How else can one explain the rolling pins and pie crimpers that they fashioned? My favorite display was of pictures of women etched on sperm whale teeth. Were they wives? Fiancees? Was the half-naked woman reclining on a sofa someone's fantasy?
Leaving the museum, I found myself in a crowd of people with suitcases and bicycles and dogs and babies. To my left was the harbor where the last whaling ship docked in 1870 to unload its barrels of rendered oil. Now, almost hourly, ferryboats arrive from Hyannis and unload visitors. Nantucket's year-round population of more than 9,000 swells to more than 50,000 in July and August.
I suppose we visitors are as valuable to Nantucket's economy as sperm whales used to be, I thought ruefully. The cobblestone streets and lanes leading away from the harbor are lined with shops filled with fine merchandise, and though I tried to be the noble tourist interested only in history -- surely I shouldn't be shopping on my first day? -- I succumbed.
Besides, I had a mission. My father, Athol, wanted a scrimshaw pocketknife. When he was 20 he worked for a year on a merchant ship, the S.S. Graigaur. He was the captain's personal steward, or "tiger," and the only thing he managed to carve for himself was an extremely uncomfortable pair of wooden sandals.
I visited several antiques shops, two of my favorites being Nina Hellman Marine Antiques and Leonards Antiques, with its inviting four-posters. I bought my father a beautiful knife at another shop, Craftmasters, and then spent the rest of the afternoon traipsing in and out of nearly every boutique. I now own a pair of fancy Japanese-looking flip-flops that just might be as uncomfortable as the sandals my father carved out of wood.
As wonderful as the shops were, something quite magical happened at dusk when most of them closed and the day visitors departed. The town seemed to wobble in time, and I experienced a delicious sense of dislocation. I was a 21st-century woman strolling through the 18th century, as long as no S.U.V.'s and Jeeps rumbled past. I wandered from one narrow lane to the next, peeping into the riotous flower gardens of the grand gray houses, billowing with hydrangeas and cosmos, with lilies and brilliant yellow coreopsis and, of course, roses.
Eventually I returned to the harbor. During the day, it's bustling with people visiting the galleries and restaurants on the wharves, but in the evening hours it quiets down. Reflections from the lights of the gray-shingled rental cottages on the piers winked in the dark water as a few boats glided into the bay for moonlight cruises. Nantucket is often referred to as "the little gray lady," and on this early summer evening I had found her to be particularly beautiful.
Was this what those homesick, rolling-pin-carving sailors pined for, I wondered. I had a vivid impression of the life of a Nantucket whaler; now I wanted to know about the women of the island, those wives and fiancees and lovers so tenderly etched on the teeth of sperm whales. What were they doing while their men were at sea?
Women shaped Nantucket's history as much as the men, starting with Mary Coffin Starbuck, who, around 1702, was instrumental in introducing Quakerism, with its belief in the equality of the sexes, to the island. While their husbands were at sea -- the longest whaling voyage lasted 11 years -- many Quaker women in coal-scuttle bonnets and homespun dresses took care of their children, launched themselves as independent businesswomen and participated in town government.
The woman who intrigued me the most was unmarried, the astronomer Maria Mitchell. On the night of Oct. 1, 1847, she excused herself from a dinner party being held in the Pacific Bank building, where she lived with her family; her father, who was an amateur astronomer, worked at the bank. She climbed to the roof and, using a Dolland telescope, became the first American and the first woman to plot the course of an unknown comet. The following year, she was the first woman elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (it took the academy almost a century to elect another woman). In 1865, when she was hired by the newly founded Vassar College, she became the first woman professor of astronomy in the United States.
En route to her birthplace on Vestal Street, I walked up the shady reaches of upper Main Street past some of Nantucket's finest 19th-century mansions: the John Wendell Barrett house, white clapboard with looming chimneys and an enclosed cupola; the Three Bricks, three identical houses with handsome porticoes built by the whaling patriarch Joseph Starbuck for his three sons. The Hadwen House, an imposing Greek Revival mansion built in 1844 for William Hadwen, a candle manufacturer, is open to the public. Its large, impeccably furnished parlors feature carved Italian marble fireplaces and gilded chandeliers, while upstairs the Chinese grass mat in Eunice Hadwen's bedroom whispers of the China trade and ships docking in exotic ports.
The house in which Maria Mitchell was born and lived until she was 18 is a fine example of late 18th- to early 19th-century Quaker design and reveals how people of more moderate means lived. While the Hadwen House has carpeted floors, here two of the floors feature the original floor painting. No brilliantly colored wallpaper brightens the small parlor, and the kitchen walls, constructed from various pieces of wood -- maybe even a few boards from a shipwreck -- and plaster, are grain-painted to resemble knotty pine. Most moving to me, and atypical for a Quaker house, was the tiny study, no larger than a broom closet, that William Mitchell created for his 10 children. When Maria, the third oldest, closed the door on her siblings and worked at her mathematical calculations it became her "room of one's own" in miniature.
Maria was as passionate about the earth as she was about the cosmos, and the Maria Mitchell Association continues her work in science education. The Loines Observatory, on Milk Street Extension, offers lectures and public telescope viewing.
The Hinchman House, on Milk Street, is a small natural science museum that includes displays of whale and dolphin bones, wildflowers, tropical drift seeds that wash up on Nantucket's beaches and a unique hands-on exhibit: an owl-pellet dig. "Is this for kids?" I asked the young volunteer. "No-o, not really," he said with a smile that made me think I wasn't the first adult to ask this question. Owl pellets are composed of regurgitated hair, feathers and bits of bone that the owl couldn't digest. Using tweezers, forceps and probes I carefully took apart a barn owl pellet that resembled a tightly packed gray oval dust ball and found at least a dozen tiny bones. A bone-sorting chart helped me identify a rodent's jawbone and several small vertebrae .
That evening, I ate in one of the island's fine restaurants, Black-Eyed Susan's. It used to be a diner and is now adorned with three Italian glass chandeliers. The Afghan jerked chicken was delicious.
I felt satiated in more ways than one. Not only had I dined well but I was also fat with history -- whaling ships and mansions and a bold woman staring at the heavens. Of course, there were historical sites that I hadn't visited: the old jail; the Atheneum, the Greek Revival building that houses Nantucket's library, where Maria Mitchell worked as the first librarian and, rumor has it, read every book; and the Quaker Meeting House. But I decided that on the following day I would plunge into the natural world.
Beautiful beaches rim Nantucket. More than 40 percent of the island is protected conservation land, and there are several nature preserves in which to hike or go birding. (Sadly, the rest of the island is being developed at a brisk pace, and huge summer homes are sprouting on the bluffs and moors.) Six bike paths, totaling approximately 25 miles, fan out across the island, and in a day one can easily cycle from the beaches of Madaket at its western tip to the village of Sconset at the eastern end. I wanted to do something a little more adventurous, and so I visited the scalloped barrier beach that forms the western flank of Nantucket's natural harbor. The Coskata-Coatue area, as it's known, consists of several adjoining wildlife refuges and encompasses sand dunes, pristine beaches, salt marshes and an old maritime red cedar forest. It is accessible only by four-wheel drive or by boat. I went in a raspberry-colored fiberglass kayak rented from Sea Nantucket on Francis Street Beach.
I felt like a poor relative as I made my way past the fancy yachts and speedboats bobbing in the choppy waters of the harbor. From a distance, the barrier beach didn't look like much more than a spit of sand, and I girded myself for disappointment. Half an hour later, as I paddled closer -- glided really, because the headwind had died down and the water was limpid and glasslike -- my heart quickened. There wasn't a soul around. For the next three hours I kayaked from one beguiling bay beach to the next. I had several swims, walked inland to view a colony of nesting egrets and dodged an enormous horseshoe crab. Rosa rugosa, the salt-spray rose, was in bloom, and I decided that there is nothing, absolutely nothing, more sublime than roses on a deserted beach.
Except, perhaps, the roses at Sconset. The heart of this village, perched on a bluff overlooking the ocean, was settled in the 17th century and has many enchanting seaside cottages. They began as one-room shacks built by fishermen from Nantucket town who came to the village for cod-fishing season. Soon enough, their wives wanted to join them and tiny bedrooms or "warts" -- was it a disgruntled husband who came up with this name? -- were added to the shacks, creating the higgledy-piggledy look of the some of the oldest ones. And the rambler roses adore them, up and over the cottages they clamber as if in competition with the giant hollyhocks to see which species can put on the most impressive display.
On my last afternoon on the island I stood in one of Sconset's sheltered narrow lanes until a most bewitching sense of stillness came over me. Surely I had entered a fairy tale. I was almost as tall as some of the cottages, yet some of the flowers were taller than I. I wanted to curl up on the nearest wooden doorstep like a cat. Not acceptable behavior for a visitor, so I strolled down to the beach known as Codfish Park and napped on the sand. The Atlantic was restless when I awoke, and the least terns were fishing close to shore, folding their wings until they resembled origami birds and plummeting into the waves. Sconset is short for Siasconset, an Indian word meaning "place of bones," and thought to be a reference to the bones of right whales that used to wash ashore. As I watched the whitecaps tearing off the indigo swells, it pleased me deeply to know that I was looking at whale country. Their numbers have greatly diminished, but they're still out there -- humpbacks and finbacks, sei and pilot whales and a few hundred right whales. Breaching and sounding and filling the waters with their songs, they migrate from ocean to ocean on journeys as epic as those of the Nantucket whaling ships that pursued them hundreds of years ago.
 
PORT OF CALL
I made calls for accommodations a week before I visited Nantucket in June and almost didn't find a room. It's wise, particularly in summer, to book well in advance.
ANCHOR INN, 66 Center Street (telephone: 508-228-0072; e-mail: anchorin@nantucket.net), was built in 1806. Its 11 rooms, with private baths and air-conditioners, are named after Nantucket whaling ships. "Cyrus," my room on the third floor, was a little small; those on the first and second floors are larger. Ann and Charles Balas, the owners, went out of their way to help me during my visit. In late September and October, midweek prices range from about $115 to $125, $165 to $175 on weekends, with Continental breakfast. No smoking. Children old enough to stay in their own room are welcome. Usually closed for six to eight weeks in the winter.
SHERBURNE INN, 10 Gay Street (508-228-4425; fax: 508-228-8114), a quiet place just a few minutes' walk from the center of town, is where I shall stay when I return to Nantucket. Built in 1835 as the headquarters for the Atlantic Silk Company, its rooms tend to be a little larger than those in the private houses that have been converted into inns. Eight exquisitely appointed bedrooms all have private baths and air-conditioning. Rates range from $150 to $250 until Columbus Day, after which they drop to around $95 to $150, Continental breakfast included. Special packages are offered from mid-October through mid-May. No smoking. Children older than 6 are welcome. Open all year.
I loved dining in BLACK-EYED SUSAN'S, 10 India Street (508-325-0308), with its funky decor. The menu changes almost weekly, and tuna tartare and Malaysian barbecued pork are popular dishes. They have no liquor license and do not take credit cards. Open for dinner every night except Sunday; reservations accepted only for the 6 p.m. seating. A two-course dinner for two averages around $80. Also open daily from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. for breakfast.
AMERICAN SEASONS, 80 Center Street (508-228-7111), is a lovely, rather romantic restaurant with a terrace. Open for dinner seven nights a week, its
menu changes every six weeks and features American regional cuisines: pan-roasted wild striped bass in saffron butter from New England, perhaps, while the South might be represented by applewood-smoked sweetbreads. A two-course dinner for two, with a bottle of wine, costs about $130.
TOPPER'S AT THE WAUWINET, 120 Wauwinet Road (508-228-8768), is in a restored old inn at the western end of Nantucket harbor. A tasting menu is served on the terrace, and I feasted on scallops, grilled calamari, yellow-fin tuna tartare and a lobster club sandwich. The tasting lunch averages $25 a person. During the spring and fall, a six-course wine-tasting dinner, with each course accompanied by a wine, is $175 a person. Topper's provides a complementary launch service to and from town; if you miss the boat you can always take a taxi from town. Open daily for dinner, Monday through Saturday for lunch, Sunday for brunch.
I rented something called a sit-on-top kayak from SEA NANTUCKET, at Francis Street Beach at the end of Washington Street Extension, about a five-minute walk from the harbor (508-228-7499). Expect to get wet. If you take a camera or a picnic lunch, wrap it securely in plastic. The kayaks have drainage holes in the bottom, which also let in water, and you will spend your time sitting in about half an inch of water. It's worth it. The rates are $15 an hour for a single, $30 for a half-day; $30 an hour for a double, $50 for a half-day. Only cash and checks accepted. Open from May through October. Lisa Fugard
 
MUSEUMS AND SHOPS
MARIA MITCHELL BIRTHPLACE HOUSE, 1 Vestal Street (telephone: 508-228-2896), is open from mid-June through mid-September, Tuesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; call for fall and winter hours. Admission: $3.
NANTUCKET WHALING MUSEUM, 13 Broad Street (508-228-1736), is open daily from Memorial Day to around Labor Day, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m; from then until Columbus Day, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.; limited hours in winter. Admission: $5; visitor pass for museums and sites operated by the Nantucket Historical Association, $10.
HADWEN HOUSE, 96 Main Street, run by the Nantucket Historical Association (508-228-1894), is open daily from Memorial Day to around Labor Day, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; from then until Columbus Day, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.; closed in winter. Admission: $5; visitor pass, $10.
HINCHMAN HOUSE NATURAL SCIENCE MUSEUM, 7 Milk Street (508-228-0898), is open from June 15 through Labor Day, Tuesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; reduced hours in September and October; closed in winter. Admission: $3.
NINA HELLMAN MARINE ANTIQUES, 48 Center Street (508-228-4677), is open June through the end of September, Monday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m, Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m; call for fall and winter hours.
LEONARDS ANTIQUES, 31 Washington Street (508-228-0620), is open from the end of April until mid-December; in summer, Tuesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Sunday, 1 to 5 p.m.; call for fall hours.
CRAFTMASTERS OF NANTUCKET, 7 India Street (508-228-0322), is open daily, April through October, 10 a.m. to 11 p.m., November through March, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Feeding the turtles resident in long pond.; Above, Clockwise from Top Left: Brant Point Lighthouse; main street; surfside beach; a coastal cruise. Left: in Nantucket Town, one of three identical houses on main street built by Joseph Starbuck for his sons.; A portrait of Eunice Hadwen, mistress of Hadwen House. (Brooke Slezak for The New York Times)
 
Map

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MARINE MAMMALS (89%); WHALING (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); HISTORY (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (61%); OCEANS (60%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (50%); SHEEP FARMING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



241 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Page 15; Column 1; Sophisticated Traveler Magazine

LENGTH: 2505 words

HEADLINE: Crossing The Oresund

BYLINE: By David Margolick; David Margolick, a contributing editor at Vanity Fair, is the author of "Strange Fruit: Billie Holiday, Cafe Society and an Early Cry for Civil Rights" (Running Press).

 BODY:
One day, perhaps, the Oresund Fixed Link, the newly opened bridge, tunnel and road that has reunited Denmark with Sweden after a 7,000-year hiatus, will find its Hart Crane, who will rhapsodize about it in the way the American poet sang the praises of the Brooklyn Bridge. But probably not. While it is an engineering marvel, one bringing to fruition nearly 100 years of dreaming and planning and politicking, aesthetically speaking at least, the new span is not the stuff of verse. It is too long (10 miles) and too much of it -- nearly the first 4 miles heading east out of Copenhagen -- is under water. When it does surface from its tunnel, most of what's visible is an elevated causeway. Its middle section looks like a bridge, but its simple concrete towers, the tallest in Sweden, and the cables strung from them, are more elegant than mighty. And since the raised span is so far from shore, for all its size it seems small and slight, a few strokes from a finely pointed pen. If it inspires poetry, it will be less for its looks and more for what it portends: a Europe whose borders are slowly evaporating.
"To forget swearing and cursing/ And drink a toast to each other/ So that They and We are becoming Us/ That's better than fighting," the Danish poet Benny Andersen wrote recently, upon the bridge's opening. It's also better, he added, than getting seasick going between the two countries -- something that apparently happened regularly to him on the old ferry crossing. 
 To the Danes and Swedes, the opening in July of the long-anticipated crossing has been both unifying and, at least temporarily, amicably divisive. The journey between Denmark's capital, Copenhagen, and Malmo, Sweden's third-largest city, which formerly took 45 minutes by ferry, has now been cut in half, whether by car on the upper span or on the train directly below. As limousines carrying the two countries' royalty cut through the various ribbons strung across the bridge on opening day, some of the air was filled with talk of how borders had ceased to matter, of the new megalopolis of three million people that had been born and of the cultural and economic cross-pollination, not only between Denmark and Sweden but also throughout unified Europe, to come.
At the same time, there was plenty of telling talk about the differences between Danes and Swedes, and how they would outlast the diminishing physical barriers between the two countries. People argued over which side would profit more handsomely from the bridge, whose $3 billion price tag was borne equally by the two countries and will be recouped from hefty tolls: at the outset, about $30 a car (payable by cash, credit card or the Scandinavian version of EZ-Pass), though less for frequent travelers. These discussions invariably degenerated into analyses of which side needed the bridge more desperately to escape its own inadequacies, all of which fed stereotypes going back nearly as far as the ice age, which originally separated the two countries. To cite one example of the badinage, the Copenhagen City Museum staged an exhibition entitled "Boring Swedes and Drunken Danes."
Some Danes will cross into Sweden for its beaches and wide-open spaces, but most predicted that, at least at first, the bulk of the traffic would head westward, Swedes in search of cheaper alcohol or the greater cultural and corporeal pleasures of a world-class capital. (In fact, early reports indicate that while traffic across the Oresund is up 75 percent since the bridge opened, it is pretty even both ways.) Danes grumble that, even visually, the Swedes made out better: from their end, after all, one gets to see the bridge, and against the sunset to boot.
To Americans, largely oblivious to the nuances of Danish-Swedish relations, unconcerned with the economic possibilities of what promises to become a powerhouse of European commerce and unlikely to want to save a few kronen on liquor, the Oresund Bridge represents something else.
To a people whose mass transit projects are perpetually mired in regulations and red tape -- consider New York's much talked about subways to its airports -- it is a reminder that such an ambitious project can actually be built, ahead of schedule, within budget and with no environmental disasters or lawsuits left over. The Oresmund Bridge opens up the virgin territory of southern Sweden, beginning with the city of Malmo and continuing into a largely undiscovered land of fishing villages, forests and bicycle trails, the home of Absolut vodka and the birthplace of the smorgasbord. And the crossing -- the 10th-longest bridge in the world, and Europe's longest rail bridge as well as one of its longest tunnels -- will surely become a destination in its own right.
From a distance, the bridge looks unimposing, like a row of dominoes with a roadbed on top and two sets of chopsticks in between. Crane's Brooklyn Bridge has two majestic, cathedral-like granite towers, nestled between two proximate pieces of land; it looms imposingly from either shore. Andersen's bridge possesses no such magic. And even if the topography lent itself to something more epic 1/4 this is a more understated age, when expectations are more modest. Georg Rotne, the Danish architect who designed the bridge, said that it was made to look timeless, as if it had always been in place. Moreover, as bridges have gotten sturdier, they've also come to look more fragile. One Swedish journalist I spoke to said that it actually looked feminine. (But then, the Swedish landscape architect on the panel reviewing the bridge design complained that, in its stark angularity, it seemed positively masculine to her. Mr. Rotne himself is agnostic about the bridge's sex. "I think about sex all the time, but we didn't put it into the site," he said.)
Closer up, the bridge is sleek and handsome in its own understated way; one reporter compared it to a Bang & Olufsen stereo. Originally envisioned by the politicians as a straight line, it was given a graceful curve by Mr. Rotne, the better to see the sea, the coastline and the bridge itself, as one drives across it. That pleasure will be enjoyed by car passengers only; while some 90,000 people bicycled, skated, ran and walked across the bridge in the days before it officially opened, there are no provisions for them now. Many Danes and Swedes will continue to take the ferry, which is cheaper and more leisurely; there, unlike in a car, one can enjoy a cold, duty-free beer while crossing the Baltic Sea.
Talk of spanning the Oresund goes back more than a century. In 1888, there was a proposal to install a railway tube on the ocean floor between Elsinore, 30 miles to the north of Copenhagen, and Helsingborg, on the Swedish coast. That came to naught, as did a proposed bridge 50 years later. War -- specifically, the German occupation of Denmark -- and politics stalled the project until 1991, when the governments of the two countries agreed upon a combined road-rail link. The portion closest to Copenhagen would be under water, so as not to interfere with the city's busy new airport at Kastrup. The tunnel would surface at a new, man-made island, nearly two miles across. It was christened Peberholm, or Pepper Island; the entirely natural Saltholm, or Salt Island, is nearby.
For the next nine years, construction proceeded; at one time, 5,500 people were working on the project. Along with such natural problems as dredging enormous mounts of material and building an island, workers had to contend with 15 British bombs left over from World War II that were found on the ocean floor. The project epitomized the new Europe: apart from the workers and materials from Denmark and Sweden, there were tunnel fans from Germany, tunnel siding from Italy, concrete from Spain. Dutchmen did some of the dredging; French alpinists helped string the cables.
Shortly after the opening ceremony, I joined the entourage crossing the bridge back to Copenhagen. But apart from bragging rights over riding the route on its first official day of operation, I didn't gain much from the experience; from the bus, one couldn't even see the towers. I decided to return to the bridge the next day, after all the royal personages had gone back to their respective palaces. And, seeking to enjoy the latest feat in European mass transit, I decided to cross it by train.
Expecting mobs of curiosity seekers, I got to Copenhagen's beautiful brick train station early that Sunday morning via the Stroget -- the lively pedestrian mall that runs through the old part of the city -- and the celebrated Tivoli Gardens. Once in the station, though, I encountered a vivid example of Danish nonchalance. It was as if, for Danes, it would be positively uncool to show too much enthusiasm for the new train connection; that was for their country cousins across the water -- repressed, boring, in search of novelty or at least a cold beer -- to do. (Even Mr. Rotne said he didn't expect to take his bridge very often. "I don't see any particular reason to go to Sweden," he told me.) The crowds in the station were sparse; the clerk sold me my ticket -- about $15 round trip -- with no fanfare or knowing smile. He did tell me, his voice full of regret, that I'd just missed the latest train; of course, this being Europe, there'd be another one in all of 19 minutes.
A few minutes shy of its scheduled departure, the train, a sleek streak of red, white and blue, pulled into the station. Its doors opened out, as if to welcome me inside. I took one of four facing seats, plush and blue, with clean and nicely cushioned white antimacassars on each. An elderly husband and wife, obviously thrilled by the prospect of reaching Malmo by train after 70 some years of ferries, sat across from me, waving at a younger woman, presumably their daughter, on the platform outside. When the train pulled out a bit late -- a few technical problems," the conductor explained in Danish -- she ran alongside for a bit, throwing kisses at she went.
The perfectly tuned train, free of grime and graffiti, was not even one of the 27 new ones ordered especially for the bridge, as I later learned to my amazement. Gliding, it headed east. "Welcome to the train that's going to Malmo," the voice, now in English, said over the public address system.
The train made several quick stops, including at the Copenhagen airport. Then, within a few moments, it went subterranean. It traversed the tunnel at a brisk clip, the only sound a quiet, high-pitched whisper. For a couple of minutes, nothing was visible but the green-and-white emergency lights flashing by. Then, gradually, the darkness tapered off. Water and boats appeared above the horizon, and then the moonscapes of Peberholm. Reflecting the environmental integrity of the project -- some $80 million was devoted to such concerns, and environmentalists seem content with the results -- nothing was planted there; the idea is that the wind and the birds will bring seeds, and whatever will grow, will grow. Soon the train climbed to the underbelly of the bridge. I saw snatches of blue on either side of me, framed by the trusses of the bridge. And then, with people standing on the shore watching what was still, after all, a novelty, the train entered Scania, the southernmost province in Sweden.
Scania, a part of Denmark until a bloody battle in 1658, still considers itself at least as much Danish as Swedish, and offers a concentrated dose of Scandinavia. There is wilderness and farmland and miles of beaches, for the sea is never more than an hour away; there are also hundreds of castles and at least 60 golf courses, said to be the highest concentration of them in northern Europe and evidence of the golfing craze that has hit Sweden in the last 25 years. One can go hiking and cycling and horseback riding, and book places not only in youth hostels but also in haylofts along the way. (A Swedish law known as allemansratten, or "all men's right," lets people hike even in privately owned areas.) Scania has festivals for eels (a favorite local delicacy) and herring and crayfish. Each year, the town of Kivik names an Apple Queen. Lund, better known, perhaps, for giving its name to Monsieur Rick's eternal flame in "Casablanca," is a university town dating back 800 years. I had time only for Malmo, which grew up around herring, withered for a while under the Swedes, sprouted factories in the 19th century and has flowered in its postindustrial incarnation.
Architecturally, Malmo is rich and intact like Copenhagen, unscarred by wars and filled with the overlapping styles of many centuries. And though it is much smaller than its sister city, it offers two of the greatest, but increasingly elusive, pleasures of travel: the feeling of really getting away, and of really discovering something new.
Malmo is surprisingly polyglot; many Holocaust survivors found new homes and rebuilt their lives here following World War II, and it continues to receive refugees warmly; 30 percent of its residents come from other countries. "Our neighbors in Scandinavia haven't been as open as we have," Charlotte Hago of the City of Malmo's press office told me. But the town of 255,000 people also remains true to its Swedish self. It is a place where one encounters few American corporate logos (only those stalwart advance scouts of American cultural hegemony, McDonald's and Burger King, thus far), and where one is blessedly unlikely to understand the conversation at the next table.
For a day I bicycled around Malmo with Ms. Hago. It is a gentle and beautiful place, filled with manicured parks and crisscrossed by roads whose every curb seems contoured for bicycle tires. We rode along the beach by the bay, with the Oresund Bridge visible in the distance, and to the Ribersborgs Kallbadhus, where men and women have taken saunas and dipped into the Baltic, icy or otherwise, for 100 years. We went to the 16th-century Malmohus Castle, now home to several museums. We had tea in the botanical gardens. And then we biked into the Old City, with its series of lovely interlocking piazzas. That evening, we sat with thousands of others in one of them, drinking Carlsberg beer and watching the finals of the European Cup soccer championship on a giant television screen. I felt I'd walked into a local festival, one to which tourists rarely find the way; and when France forced the game against Italy into overtime with only seconds left to play, I was pleased -- not so much because I wanted one team or the other to win, but because I simply was not ready for this magic moment to end.
Taking the new train back to Copenhagen, looking out at the Whistler bluish-grays on one side and the salmon-colored sunset on the other, I was struck by one of the paradoxes of progress. The Oresund Fixed Link will rescue Malmo from its isolation, making it more accessible to people like me. But it will just as surely deprive it, and quickly, of its provincial charms.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The visible segment of the Oresund Fixed Link, the new bridge and tunnel, as seen from the ferry. (Corbis/Sygma); ABOVE: The lights of Copenhagen and its airport. LEFT, ABOVE: A bar in Malmo's Old City. LEFT, BELOW: Copenhagen's Nyhavn, also well stocked with restaurants and bars. (Josef Polleross for The New York Times); The Link runs under water for four miles, then rises to become a gently curving bridge to Malmo; In the Malmo station, travelers board a sparkling clean train bound for Copenhagen. (Francis Dean/Corbis Sygma for The New York Times)
 
Map

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SWEDEN (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); DENMARK (91%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWEDEN (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); DENMARK (91%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (58%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WRITERS (90%); POETRY (90%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (78%); FERRIES (68%); TRAINS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



242 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 94; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 7199 words

HEADLINE: THE ANNOTATED LIST: ART;
A Gathering of New Isms, Old Masters and Noodles

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:

A * indicates an event of special note.
 
September
 
* "SOL LEWITT: A RETROSPECTIVE"
Mr. LeWitt, a linchpin figure between Minimalism and Conceptualism, is celebrated in a retrospective that ranges from early, spare text pieces to modular sculptures to the colorful wall drawings he has been masterminding in recent years. The show is at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago, through Oct. 22. It travels to the Whitney Museum of American Art. Dec. 7-Feb. 25. Mr. LeWitt's work from the 1970's is on view in a small show titled "Incomplete Open Cubes" at the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford. Jan. 27-April 29. 

"TOM FRIEDMAN"
From mundane materials -- ballpoint pens, chewing gum, aspirins -- this young artist makes labor-intensive art of immense wit and ingenuity. A one-decade survey, organized by the Southeastern Center for Contemporary Art (Secca) in Winston-Salem, N.C., is on view at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago through Oct 1, then moves on to the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts, San Francisco (Nov. 4-Jan. 28); Aspen Art Museum. Colorado (Feb. 16-April 15); Secca (July 14-Sept. 24); and the New Museum of Contemporary Art, N.Y. (Oct. 11-Jan. 17, 2002)
 
"PARADISE NOW"
The new season's first entry in the Big Science sweepstakes. Genetic engineering is the theme tackled by the curators Carole Kismaric and Marvin Heiferman, with the artists Julian LaVerdiere, Inigo Manglano-Ovalle, Alexis Rockman, Mark Dion and others. Exit Art. Through Oct. 28. (212-966-7745) www.exitart.org.
 
"THE NEW FRONTIER: ART AND TELEVISION, 1960-1965"
Organized by the art historian John Alan Farmer, the show considers the influence of the Tube on the visual arts at a formative moment in American culture. Among the members of the TV generation to be included: Wallace Berman, Bruce Conner, Yoko Ono, Nam June Paik and Andy Warhol. Austin Museum of Art. Through Nov. 26. (512-495-9224) www.amoa.org.
 
"JEREMY BLAKE"
This artist's use of dissolving photo projections to create the equivalent of geometric abstract paintings has been much admired of late. Four of his video projections, along with large-scale photographs, are on view at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, Philadelphia. Through Nov. 5.
 
"A BRUSH WITH NATURE: THE GERE COLLECTION OF LANDSCAPE OIL SKETCHES"
Arriving from the National Gallery, London, is a selection of modest-size 18th- and 19th-century landscape oil sketches, dashed off outdoors in an attempt to capture effects of light and atmosphere for reference in the studio. The Frick Collection. Tuesday through Nov. 12.
 
"JORGE PARDO: PROJECT"
Mr. Pardo's art-and-function project entails redesigning the lobby of the Dia Center's building in Chelsea, staging an exhibition in a reconfigured gallery and creating a new bookstore on the premises. Dia Center for the Arts. Wednesday through June 17.
 
"THE CHINESE PAINTER AS POET"
presents an array of fans, hanging scrolls, wood-block prints and jade carvings, from the Song Dynasty to the 20th century, to trace the integration of the written word -- often poetry -- with the image in Chinese art. China Institute. Thursday through Dec. 10. (212-744-8181) www.chinainstitute.org.
 
* "THE EMBODIED IMAGE: CHINESE CALLIGRAPHY FROM THE JOHN B. ELLIOTT COLLECTION"
The Chinese consider calligraphy their supreme cultural achievement, which is saying a lot. This show, made up of selections from some extraordinary American collections, is the largest survey of its kind ever mounted in the West. Metropolitan Museum of Art. Friday through Jan. 7.
 
"EAST OF THE RIVER: CHICANO ART COLLECTORS ANONYMOUS"
A show drawn from work owned by a group of private collectors who support and preserve the community-based work of Chicano artists in Los Angeles. Santa Monica Museum of Art. Friday through Nov. 18. (310-586-6488) www.netvip.com/smmoa.
 
"PIERRE AND GILLES"
Using make-up, costumes and lighting, this collaborative team creates fantasy photographs that are further glamorized through hand-painting. The end product: transcendental kitsch. New Museum of Contemporary Art. Friday through Jan. 21. A related article is on Page 91.
 
"UDOMSAK KRISANAMIS"
This young Thai artist uses materials like noodles and newspapers to create abstract works with relief surfaces and cosmological imagery. Wexner Center for the Arts, Columbus, Ohio. Saturday through December. (614-292-0330)www.wexarts.org.
 
"RONI HORN: STILL WATER (THE RIVER THAMES, FOR EXAMPLE), 1999"
An installation of 15 photographs of the surface of the Thames, each annotated by a text. The Whitney Museum of American Art. Saturday through Jan. 14.
 
"JOHN WESLEY: PAINTINGS 1961-2000"
A first United States retrospective for a maverick artist, born in Los Angeles in 1928, who paints animals, show girls and athletes in a distinctive cartoonlike style influenced by Matisse, Art Nouveau and Surrealism. Alanna Heiss does the curatorial honors. P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, Long Island City, Queens. Next Sunday through Jan. 15. (718-784-2084) www.ps1.org.
 
"FOUNTAINS OF LIGHT: ISLAMIC METALWORK FROM THE NUHAD ES-SAID COLLECTION"
More than two dozen inlaid precious-metal objects from present day Iran, Syria, Afghanistan and Turkey. Dating from the 10th to the 19th century, they're on long-term loan to the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery in Washington. Opens next Sunday.
 
"ART AND THE EMPIRE CITY: NEW YORK 1825-1861"
Between the year the Erie Canal was built and the beginning of the Civil War, New York turned into a commercial and cultural center and the largest city in the Western Hemisphere. This selection of 300 objects -- paintings, photography, furniture, silver -- documents the polishing of the Big Apple. Metropolitan Museum. Sept. 19-Jan. 7.
 
"AMAZONS OF THE AVANT-GARDE: ALEXANDRA EXTER, NATALIA GONCHAROVA, LIUBOV POPOVA, OLGA ROZANOVA, VARVARA STEPANOVA AND NADEZHDA UDALTSOVA"
Art by six Russian women who, in the first quarter of the 20th century, made significant contributions to the development of European modernism. Guggenheim Museum. Sept. 20-Jan. 7.
 
"FOCUS: STAN DOUGLAS"
Organized by Okwui Enwezor, this exhibition by a widely exhibited Canadian artist will include 25 large-format color photographs of the socially and economically battered city of Detroit and a documentary film with a hip-hop score. Art Institute of Chicago. Sept. 20-Dec. 19. (312-443-3600) www.artic.edu. A show of Mr. Douglas's photographs and videos will be at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles. Dec. 10-April 1.
 
"CY TWOMBLY: THE SCULPTURE"
includes 65 pieces in plaster, stone and bronze from 1946-98 by an artist best known for his abstract paintings. The show, which had its debut at the Kunstmuseum Basel, appears at the Menil Collection, Houston. Sept. 20-Jan. 7. (713-525-9400) www.menil.org. Traveling to the National Gallery of Art, Washington. May 6-July 29.
 
"BRIDGET RILEY: RECONNAISSANCE"
This British artist's optically mesmerizing paintings from the 1960's have long enjoyed mythic status, but are more often heard about than seen in New York. The exhibition will offer both older pieces and a new wall drawing. Dia Center for the Arts. Sept. 21-June 17.
 
"HIP-HOP NATION: ROOTS, RHYMES AND RAGE"
mixes video, music, art and fashion to examine an electrifying pop-cultural phenomenon, now two decades old, which has moved from the urban underground to television advertising. Brooklyn Museum of Art. Sept. 22-Dec. 31
 
"REMBRANDT CREATES REMBRANDT: ART AND AMBITION IN LEIDEN 1629-1631"
Rembrandt was a shrewd combination of soulfulness and showmanship. This small show focuses on his formative years and centers around an early self-portrait in the museum's collection. Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, Boston. Sept. 23-Jan. 7. (617-566-1401)www.
boston.com/gardner.
 
* "ULTRABAROQUE: ASPECTS OF POST-LATIN AMERICAN ART"
This traveling exhibition brings together 16 young artists from Latin America who examine the notion of a baroque sensibility long associated with Latin American art itself, but place this aesthetic in a context of international styles and loosened-up notions of cultural identity. The show opens at the Museum of Contemporary Art San Diego at La Jolla. Sept. 23-Jan. 24. (858-454-3541) www.mcasandiego.org. Traveling to the Modern Art Museum, Fort Worth (Feb. 4-May 6); San Francisco Museum of Modern Art (Aug. 18-Jan. 2, 2002); Art Museum of Ontario, Toronto (Jan. 30-April 28, 2002); Miami Art Museum (June 20-Aug. 24, 2002); and the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis (Oct. 13, 2002-Jan. 5, 2003).
 
"LOUISE DAHL-WOLFE: THE AMERICA IMAGE"
A survey of more than 130 photographs, with clips and memorabilia, by a leading American fashion photographer, active from the 1930's to the 1960's and associated primarily with Harper's Bazaar. Center for Creative Photography, Tucson. Sept. 23-Nov. 26. (520-621-7968) www.creativephotography.org.
 
"WAYNE THIEBAUD: A PAINTINGS RETROSPECTIVE"
An 80th-birthday homage to a painterly California Pop artist who seems to be the latest inductee into the American Master Hall of Fame. Organized by the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, it will be at the Modern Art Museum Fort Worth Sept. 24-Jan. 14. (817-738-9215) www.mamfw.org. Traveling to the Phillips Collection, Washington (Feb. 10-April 29) and the Whitney Museum (June 28-Sept. 23). A show of the artist's prints will be at the Corcoran Gallery of Art. Feb. 3-April 22.
 
"MOROCCO: JEWS AND ART IN A MUSLIM LAND"
Jewish culture, an important presence in North Africa, will be viewed through more than 180 objects, including gold and silver ceremonial objects, jewelry, textiles and Orientalist paintings of Eugene Delacroix. Jewish Museum. Sept. 24-Feb. 11.
 
"THE FILM ART OF ISAAC JULIEN"
Four multiscreen video installations, with photographs, make up a first solo museum show for an important black British independent filmmaker, best known for his sexy, dreamlike documentary film about the poet Langston Hughes, "Looking for Langston" (1989). Center for Curatorial Studies at Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y. Sept. 24-Dec. 15. (845-758-7598) www.bard.edu.
 
"IN THE PRESENCE OF SPIRITS: SELECTIONS FROM THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF ETHNOLOGY, LISBON"
The show will include combs, carved pipes, stone funerary figures and monumental masks from Angola, Guinea and Ivory Coast, some making their first appearance in the United States. The show opens at the Museum for African Art. Sept. 27-Dec 31. (212-966-1313) www.africanart.org. Traveling to Flint Institute of Arts, Michigan (Feb. 1-April 29); National Museum of African Art, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, (June 10-Sept. 14); and the Birmingham Museum of Art, Alabama (Oct. 25, 2001-Jan. 5, 2002).
 
"RUSKIN'S ITALY, RUSKIN'S ENGLAND"
The Victorian monument named John Ruskin died 100 years ago, and this selection of drawings, watercolors, manuscripts, letters and artifacts, all from the Morgan Library's premier Ruskin holdings, offers a chance to pay tribute to his achievements and to ponder his elusive, unstable personality. Morgan Library. Sept. 28-Jan. 7.
 
* "MOMA2000: OPEN ENDS"
The final lap of the Museum of Modern Art's millennial marathon of self-examination and, one hopes, self-renewal, will arrive in three sections with staggered opening dates. Together they will embrace work in the museum's collection from 1960 through the present, from Jasper Johns to Pipilotti Rist. Part I, Sept. 28-Jan. 2; Part II, Oct. 19-Jan. 30; Part III, Nov. 5-Jan. 30.
 
October
 
"A SPIRITUAL JOURNEY: THE ART OF EDDIE LEE KENDRICK"
A survey of paintings by an American self-taught artist who took his themes from the Bible, gospel hymns and dreams. His work was first noticed in 1977 when a teacher in a Little Rock, Ark., public elementary school, where Kendrick was a janitor,saw some of his paintings in the custodian's office. Fenimore Art Museum, Cooperstown, N.Y. Oct. 1-Dec. 31. (607-547-1400) www.fenimoreartmuseum.org.
 
"THE YEAR ONE: ART OF THE ANCIENT WORLD EAST AND WEST"
The Met gets into the millennium swing with a culling of 150 works from its collection that date back approximately 2,000 years. Roman portraits, Celtic metalwork, Indian Buddhas and Egyptian sculptures spell "multiculturalism" in the Ancient World. Metropolitan Museum. Oct. 3-Jan. 14.
 
"LOVE AND LOSS: AMERICAN PORTRAIT AND MOURNING MINIATURES"
Often painted in watercolor on thin disks of ivory and enclosed in lockets, these portraits were painted on commission to commemorate births, marriages and deaths by artists famous (John Singleton Copley, Benjamin West) and unknown. The show examines the connections between the miniature and the history of private life in America. Yale University Art Gallery. Oct. 30-Dec. 30. (203-432-0600) www.yale.edu/artgallery.
 
* "EDWARD STEICHEN"
A chronological survey, the first in 40 years, of this influential American photographer will include his iconic shots of Manhattan and of luminaries like Greta Garbo and J. P. Morgan, along with examples of his paintings and textile designs. Whitney Museum. Oct. 5-Feb. 4.
 
"LEE KRASNER"
This retrospective brings Krasner home to the city where she lived and worked. Famously the wife of Jackson Pollock, she was an artist with a mind, a life and a style of her own. Brooklyn Museum. Oct. 6-Jan. 7. A related article is on Page 91.
 
"SPANISH IMPRESSIONISM AND POST-IMPRESSIONISM: A NEW SELECTION"
The Hispanic Society of America on Manhattan's upper Upper West Side is a gold mine of modern Spanish painting, a tradition that includes such virtuosi as Sorolla and Fortuny. Seldom seen work by both will be brought to light and, as a bonus, there are fabulous Sorolla murals of Spanish village life on permanent view. Hispanic Society of America. Oct. 6-Dec. 22. (212-926-2234) www.hispanicsociety.org.
 
"RADCLIFFE BAILEY: THE MAGIC CITY"
This Atlanta-based artist combines expressionist painting, photography and sculpture in dense, poetic images of African-American history. Birmingham Museum of Art, Alabama. Oct. 8-Dec. 31. (205-254-2565) www.artsBMA.org.
 
* "ART NOUVEAU, 1890-1914"
had its debut at the Victoria and Albert in London and it's a very V & A affair: a vast assemblage of ceramics, jewelry, glass, textiles and furniture, along with paintings and sculptures, all to document the slinky fin-de-siecle Euro-American design movement. The National Gallery is adding a slew of material for its presentation, which is on view from Oct. 8-Jan. 28. The show will move on to the Tokyo Metropolitan Art Museum April 21-July 8.
 
* "ANTIOCH: THE LOST ANCIENT CITY"
This archaeological show brings to light one of the most important cultural centers of the ancient world through frescoes, mosaics, metalwork, glassware and a re-creation of a Roman dining room. Worcester Art Museum in Massachusetts, which organized it. Oct. 8-Feb. 4. (508-799-4406) www.worcesterart.org. Traveling to the Cleveland Museum of Art (March. 19-June 3) and the Baltimore Museum of Art (Aug. 30-Dec. 30).
 
"WHITFIELD LOVELL: WHISPERS FROM THE WALLS"
This audio-visual installation in the form of a one-room cabin is about the uprooting of an African-American community in the 1920's. The Studio Museum in Harlem. Oct. 11-Dec. 31. (212-864-4500)
www.studiomuseuminharlem.org.
 
"ARCHITECT OF DREAMS: THE THEATRICAL VISION OF JOSEPH URBAN"
The German-born Urban was best known for his architecture -- the New School for Social Research, for example -- but also designed stage sets for the Metropolitan Opera and the Ziegfeld Follies. Watercolor studies and stage models of his theater work will be at the Wallach Art Gallery at Columbia University, which has a strong track record with archival exhibition like this. Oct. 11-Dec. 16. (212-854-7288) www.columbia.edu/cu/wallach.
 
"POWER AND DESIRE: SOUTH ASIAN PAINTINGS FROM THE SAN DIEGO MUSEUM OF ART, EDWIN BINNEY 3RD COLLECTION"
Painting in India has a long history that survives, in part, in pictures known as miniatures. Whether they come from the court workshops of Rajput princes or from the grand Mughal ateliers in Delhi, they are amazing, and the Binney collection has a full range of styles. Asia Society. Oct. 12-Jan. 7. (212-288-6400) www.asiasociety.org.
 
"LEONARDO DREW"
A large-scale abstract installation and drawings by a young artist who evokes African-American rural and urban experience in monumental, material-rich sculpture. TheBronx Museum of the Arts. Oct. 5-Mar. 4.
 
* "THE GOLDEN DEER OF EURASIA: SCYTHIAN AND SARMATIAN TREASURES FROM THE RUSSIAN STEPPES"
You'll probably be able to see this show glowing on the horizon, what with its two-foot-high sculptures of deer and other gold items brought up from digs in southern Russia. Metropolitan Museum. Oct. 12-Feb. 4. And there's more precious metal in the "Gold of the Nomads: Scythian Treasures from Ancient Ukraine," which lands at the Brooklyn Museum at the same time. Oct. 13-Jan. 21.
 
* "UTOPIA: THE SEARCH FOR THE IDEAL SOCIETY"
This collaboration between the New York Public Library and the Bibliotheque National in Paris is about concepts of the ideal society in Western culture from classical antiquity to the present. Voltaire's manuscript of "Candide" will be here, along with some Shaker boxes, photographs of a Florida town named Disney's Celebration and a copy of the Declaration of Independence in Thomas Jefferson's hand. New York Public Library. Oct. 14-Jan. 27. (212-869-8089) www.nypl.org.
 
"PAINTING THE TOWN: CITYSCAPES OF NEW YORK"
A portrait of New York from 1809 to 1997, organized by a museum that specializes in the subject. Museum of the City of New York. Oct. 14-Dec. 31. (212-534-1672) www.mcny.org.
 
"YES YOKO ONO"
Ms. Ono was one of the early participants in the international Fluxus movement, and this first major United States retrospective will survey her career from the 1960's to the present with films, videos, artist's books, installations and instructional pieces. Organized by Alexandra Munroe and Jon Hendricks for the Japan Society Gallery. Oct. 18-Jan 14. (212-832-1155) www.jpnsoc.org. Traveling to the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis (March 10-June 17); Contemporary Arts Museum, Houston (July 13-Sept. 16); List Visual Arts Center at M.I.T., Cambridge, Mass. (Oct. 18, 2001-Jan. 6, 2002); Art Gallery of Ontario, Toronto (Feb. 22-May 20, 2002); San Francisco Museum of Modern Art (June 22-Sept. 8, 2002) and to Asia.
 
"GIORGIO ARMANI"
Did the fashion mogul sort of, like, rent the Guggenheim for this ramp-filling survey, or what? With the director-designer Robert Wilson in charge of the installation, Style is the name of the game. Guggenheim Museum. Oct. 20-Jan. 17. Traveling to the Guggenheim Bilbao Mar. 13-Aug. 26.
 
"THE KOREAN WAR IN AMERICAN ART AND CULTURE"
Scans a historical episode through period artifacts as well as work by contemporary Korean-American artists like Michael Joo, Yong Soon Min and Ik-Joong Kang. Organized by Simon Taylor for the Guild Hall Museum, East Hampton, N.Y. Oct. 21-Jan. 7. (631-324-0806) www.guildhall.org.
 
"GLENN LIGON"
Mr. Ligon, an artist whose text-based explorations of black life in America were an important part of art in the 1990's, has created new large-scale work for this show at the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis. Oct. 22-March 11.
 
* "MADE IN CALIFORNIA: IMAGE AND IDENTITY, 1900-2000"
This broad-spectrum thematic take on a century of art in California is the largest exhibition ever done by a museum noted for its compendious and unorthodox projects, and the results could be absorbing. Work by artists, well known and unknown, will share space with posters, books, advertisements and other evidence of the kind of pop culture California practically invented. Los Angeles County Museum of Art. Oct. 22-Feb. 25.
 
"NARRATIVES OF AFRICAN AMERICAN ART AND IDENTITY: THE DAVID C. DRISKELL COLLECTION"
The artist and historian David C. Driskell has been collecting since the early 1950's, and a representative selection of his holdings is in this traveling show at the Newark Museum. Oct. 25-Feb. 25. A concurrent show of work by Mr. Driskell is being presented by Aljira, A Center for Contemporary Art at the Paul Robeson Gallery of Rutgers University, Newark. Oct. 25-Dec. 13. (973-643-6877).
 
"TAINO"
The inauguration of a new permanent gallery dedicated to the art of the Taino, a culture that flourished in the Caribbean islands from 1200 to 1500, represents an important step for El Museo del Barrio, which offered a scholarly exhibition of this still under-studied material in 1997. The new gallery opens on Oct. 26. On the same day, a show of Latin American photography from the collections of the Lehigh University in Pennsylvania also goes on view at the museum. Museo del Barrio. (212-831-7272) www.elmuseo.org.
 
"WOLFGANG LAIB"
A midcareer retrospective for a sculptor whose spare, meditative work, inspired by Minimalism and non-Western cultures, is made of organic ingredients like pollen, rice and beeswax. Hirshhorn Museum. Oct. 26-Jan 22. Traveling to the Henry Art Gallery, Seattle (Feb. 13-May 6); Dallas Museum of Art (May 29-Sept. 2); Scottsdale Museum of Contemporary Art, Arizona (Oct. 5-Dec. 30); Museum of Contemporary Art, San Diego (Jan. 25-April 21, 2002); Haus der Kunst, Munich (Oct. 8, 2002-Jan. 5, 2003). An installation made of pollen will be at the Berkeley Art Museum in California Oct. 14-Dec. 17.
 
"BETWEEN THE THUNDER AND THE RAIN: CHINESE PAINTINGS FROM THE OPIUM WAR THROUGH THE CULTURAL REVOLUTION, 1840-1979"
Drawn from a single California private collection, this show highlights work by a wide range of artists during a turbulent period that saw the end of dynastic rule, Japanese occupation and the Cultural Revolution. Asian Art Museum of San Francisco. Oct. 25-Jan 14. (415-379-8800) www.asianart.org.
 
"NEW WORK: EDUOARD DUVAL CARRIE"
This Haitian-born artist evokes Caribbean religious themes in a site-specific installation at the Miami Art Museum. Oct. 26-Jan. 14.
 
"ADRIAN PIPER: A RETROSPECTIVE, 1965-2000"
A hard-hitting gathering of text-based photography, installations and early paintings by an American conceptualist who, since the early 1970's, has been one of the most incisive and articulate commentators on the politics of race. Organized by Maurice Berger for the Fine Arts Gallery, University of Maryland, where it opened, it will be at the New Museum of Contemporary Art. Oct. 26-Jan. 21. Traveling to the Weatherspoon Art Gallery, University of North Carolina, Greenboro (Feb. 11-April 15) and the Contemporary Arts Center, Cincinnati (June 23-Aug. 19). A separate survey of Ms. Piper's video work, "MEDI(t)ATIONS," organized by Dara Meyers-Kingsley, will also be at the New Museum and is on view at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles through Nov. 5.
 
"HENRI MICHAUX"
A survey of calligraphic works on paper by the Belgian poet and critic will be at the Drawing Center in SoHo. Oct. 28-Dec. 20.
 
"VIK MUNIZ"
The first museum retrospective of the Brazilian-born artist known for his photographic images made with sugar, yarn and chocolate syrup will inaugurate the new Tang Teaching Museum and Art Gallery at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. The show then tours to the Contemporary Art Center, New Orleans, and elsewhere. Also at the Tang: "S.O.S: The Sound of Art," an exhibition of contemporary work composed of or incorporating audio elements, including work by a master of the medium, Stephen Vitiello. Oct. 28-Jan. 31. (518-580-8080) www.skidmore.edu/tang.
 
"PAUL MCCARTHY"
This first museum retrospective for an influential California artist will include installations, performance videos and drawings, many of them of the hilariously in-your-face, "parental guidance advised" variety. Mr. McCarthy is big, bad and major. Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles. Oct. 26-Jan 21. Traveling to the New Museum of Contemporary Art Feb. 15-May 13.
 
November
 
"INTERACTIVE DESIGN LAB,"
organized by the artist and writer Ronald Jones, is a sampling of interdisciplinary artists involved in exploring new technologies. Artists Space. Nov. 9-Jan. 31. (212-226-3970) www.artistsspace.org.
 
"PAINTING ON LIGHT: DRAWING ON STAINED GLASS IN THE AGE OF DURER AND HOLBEIN"
This show, which is on view at the J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles, through Sept. 24, brings together more than 50 stained-glass panels from the Gothic and early Renaissance periods, along with 80 drawings of window designs, many of them by the leading artists of the day. St. Louis Art Museum. Nov. 4-Jan. 7.
 
"TAOISM AND THE ARTS OF CHINA"
This ambitious exhibition will explore the pervasive relationship between the indigenous philosophy-religion known as Taoism and Chinese art and culture, with examples of sculpture, painting, calligraphy, textiles and books. Art Institute of Chicago. Nov. 4-Jan 7. (312-443-3600) www.artic.edu. Traveling to the Asian Art Museum of San Francisco (Feb. 21-May 13).
 
"CHORUS OF LIGHT: PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE SIR ELTON JOHN COLLECTION"
The British pop veteran has amassed a considerable collection of work by blue-chip figures like Berenice Abbott, Tina Modotti and Edward Weston. "I never get fed up looking at the images," says Sir Elton. Nearly 400 pieces will be on view at the High Museum of Art, Atlanta, with "celebrity portraits" in a separate show in the museum's downtown gallery. Nov. 4-Jan. 28.
 
"MIRIAM SCHAPIRO: A RETROSPECTIVE OF PAINTINGS, 1954-1997"
covers the career of an artist who was a central figure in the early feminist art of the 1970's and in the Pattern and Decoration movement. Minnesota Museum of American Art, Minneapolis. Nov. 11-Jan. 28. (651-292-4355) www.mtn.org/mmaa.
 
ZIMMERLI MUSEUM
After being under renovation for more than a year, the Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J., opens with seven exhibitions highlighting the museum's holdings in Russian 20th-century art and material related to the Japonism movement in America. Nov. 12, various closing dates. (732-932-7237) www-rci.rutgers.edu/zamuseum/.
 
"BODY POLITICS: THE FEMALE IMAGE IN LUBA ART AND THE SCULPTURE OF ALISON SAAR"
This show includes sculptures from the Luba kingdom of central Africa along with work by the contemporary African-American artist Alison Saar. U.C.L.A. Fowler Museum of Cultural History, Los Angeles. Nov. 12-May 13.
 
"WORLDS REVEALED: THE DAWN OF JAPANESE AND AMERICAN EXCHANGE"
The Peabody Essex Museum in Salem, Mass., is a treasure chest of art and artifacts brought to New England by merchant ships and whalers two centuries ago. This exhibition documents early cultural interactions between the United States and what was once called the Far East. Nov. 17, continuing. Peabody Essex Museum. (800-745-4054) www.pem.org.
 
"ANDY WARHOL: SOCIAL OBSERVER"
Organized by Jonathan Binstock for the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts (where it is on view through Sept. 21), this show examines the Pop-meister's unblinking view of the social issues of the postwar years, from racial violence to the cult of celebrity. His political views veered between principled concern and opportunism (portrait commissions from the high and mighty were a career priority), but nothing escaped his attention. Corcoran Gallery. Nov. 18-Feb. 19.
 
December
 
"LISA YUSKAVAGE"
Ms. Yuskavage's paintings of extravagantly nubile women have attracted a lot of attention in the last few years. Some feminists find them retrograde; others say that they're taking control over what was once the exclusive terrain of "the male gaze." Institute of Contemporary Art, Philadelphia. Dec. 2-Feb. 4. (215-898-7108) www.upenn.edu/ica.
 
* "INDIA THROUGH THE LENS: PHOTOGRAPHY 1840-1911"
With formal portraits of dressed-to-the-nines maharajas, scenes of British colonial life joining Felice Beato's documentation of the aftermath of the Indian Mutiny of 1857, this is bound to be a mesmerizing show. Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. Dec. 3-Mar. 25.
 
"CHARLOTTE SALOMON: LIFE? OR THEATER?"
Salomon died at Auschwitz at age 26 and left behind hundreds of semi-autobiographical paintings on paper that document her haunted life. The show originated in London, is at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, through Oct. 29 and travels to the Jewish Museum Dec. 10-Mar. 25.
 
"THE DRAFTSMAN'S ART: MASTER DRAWINGS FROM THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF SCOTLAND"
Leonardo, Raphael, Rubens, Blake, Ingres, Seurat, with a few guys you've never heard of. Enough said. Frick Collection. Dec. 12-Feb. 25.
 
January
 
"ANDY WARHOL: PHOTOGRAPHY"
Warhol, with his infinite capacity for absorbing data, almost always packed a tape recorder or a camera, and sometimes both. This show covers the range of his photographic work. International Center of Photography, New York. Jan. 11-Mar. 18.
 
"INSIDE SPACE: EXPERIMENTS IN REDEFINING ROOMS"
The first show organized by the M.I.T. List Visual Art Center's new curator, Bill Arning, will see an international group of young artists -- among them Monica Bonvicini, Teresita Fernandez, Juan Maidigan and the team of Elmgreen and Dragset -- shaking up interior architecture. M.I.T. List Visual Arts Center, Cambridge, Mass. Jan. 16-April 8.
 
'JEAN POYET: ARTIST TO THE COURT OF RENAISSANCE FRANCE"
The illuminator Jean Poyet (active circa 1483-1503) served in the courts of three French kings. His Prayer Book of Anne de Bretagne is a gem of the Morgan Library's collection. This compare-and-contrast look at Poyet in the context of his contemporaries will be at the Morgan Library. Jan 25-May 6.
 
"GAUGUIN'S 'NIRVANA': PAINTERS AT LE POULDU, 1889-90"
Gauguin spent a brief time in the fishing village of Le Pouldu in Brittany with his disciple, patron and rival, the Dutch artist Jacob Isaac Meyer de Haan, who painted alongside him and paid the bills. Wadsworth Atheneum. Jan. 26-April 29.
 
* "ALFRED STIEGLITZ AND MODERN ART IN AMERICA"
A look at Stieglitz's formative role in advancing art in America, as photographer, publisher and gallery director. Works that he showed at his galleries will be reassembled; his 1914 exhibition of African art will be partially reconstructed. There will also be mini-surveys of American artists he championed, among them Charles Demuth, Arthur Dove, Marsden Hartley, Georgia O'Keeffe and Edward Steichen. National Gallery of Art. Jan. 28-April 22.
 
"ABRAHAM BLOEMAERT (1566-1651) AND HIS TIME"
Bloemaert was a skilled Dutch Mannerist painter of landscapes and religious scenes and apparently an excellent teacher with many talented pupils in Utrecht. This small show centers on a single painting by him in the museum's collection. Museum of Fine Arts, St. Petersburg, Fla. Jan. 28-April 8. (727-896-2667) www.fine.arts.org.
 
"JANINE ANTONI"
Ms. Antoni was the winner of the 1999 Larry Aldrich Foundation award, and work created during her recent residency at the Aldrich Museum of Contemporary Art in Ridgefield, Conn., appears there from Jan. 21-May 20. (203-438-4519) www.aldrichart.org.
 
"EDOUARD MANET: THE STILL-LIFE PAINTINGS"
Manet's late still lifes of flowers in tumblers are among his most purely beautiful pictures. They will be joined in this show, which originated at the Musee d'Orsay in Paris, by earlier paintings and prints. Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore. Jan. 28-April 22. (410-547-9000) www.thewalters.org.
 
"MODERN CHINESE PAINTING, 1840-1980: SELECTIONS FROM THE ROBERT H. ELLSWORTH COLLECTION IN THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART"
Organized by Wen C. Fong, this is a selection from nearly 500 works in the Ellsworth collection, all created during a period of dramatic political change as China entered the modern world. Metropolitan Museum. Jan. 30-Aug. 19.
 
February
 
"VAN GOGH AND PAINTERS OF THE PETIT BOULEVARD"
looks at the painter's relationship to artists of the Parisian avant-garde, among them Gauguin, Pissarro, Seurat and Toulouse-Lautrec. St. Louis Art Museum. Feb. 17-May 31.
 
"DISTANT SHORES: THE ODYSSEY OF ROCKWELL KENT"
A survey of landscape paintings by an American artist and illustrator whose commitment to populist politics was unswerving but whose conservative art fell into disfavor after World War II. Organized by the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge, Mass., the show appears at the Terra Museum of American Art, Chicago. Feb. 24-May 20. (312-664-3939) www.terramuseum.org.
 
"ROSMARIE TROCKEL: DRAWINGS"
A show of drawings by this artist caused a stir at the Museum of Modern Art in 1980, and there is reason to have high hopes for this new exhibition, which will be on view at the Pompidou Center in Paris before coming to the Drawing Center in SoHo. Feb. 24-April 7.
 
"TREASURY OF THE BASEL CATHEDRAL"
More than 70 liturgical items from the Basel Cathedral's treasury, which was dispersed in the 19th century, are reunited. One of the original storage cupboards is on display, too. Metropolitan Museum. Feb. 27-May 27.
 
"WILLIAM KENTRIDGE"
The animated films -- narratives of political and personal turmoil -- by this South African artist have been a staple of international art festivals. Ten are included here, along with related drawings and prints. The show has its debut at the Hirshhorn Museum, Washington. Feb. 28-May 6. Traveling to the New Museum (June 7-Sept. 16); Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago (Oct. 20-Jan. 20, 2002); the Contemporary Arts Museum, Houston, (Feb.-May 2002); Los Angeles County Museum of Art (June-Sept. 2002).
 
March
 
"EGYPTIAN ART FROM THE BRITISH MUSEUM"
The dynastic blowouts in New York and Boston last season left you hungry? There's more of the same in this show drawn from a thoroughbred collection. Organized by the American Federation of Arts, it opens at the Toledo Museum of Art. Mar. 2-May 27. (800-644-6862) www.toledomuseum.org. Traveling to Wonders, Memphis International Cultural Series (July 2-Oct. 21); Brooklyn Museum of Art (Dec. 1, 2001-Feb. 24, 2002); Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art, Kansas City (April 12-July 7, 2002); Minneapolis Institute of Art (Dec. 20, 2002-Mar. 16, 2003); Field Museum, Chicago (April 26-Aug. 3, 2003); Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore (Sept. 5, 2003-Jan. 7, 2004).
 
"ANDREAS GURSKY"
The curator Peter Galassi is in charge of this show made up of more than three dozen of the German-born artist's panoramic photographs, which turn modern life into a nightmare of material plenitude. Museum of Modern Art. Mar. 4-May 15.
 
"INTIMATE WORLDS: MASTERPIECES OF INDIAN PAINTING FROM THE ALVIN O. BELLAK COLLECTION"
A superb collection of miniatures that has been promised to the Philadelphia Museum and is on view in its entirety for the first time under the curatorial hand of Darielle Mason. Philadelphia Museum of Art. March 4-April 29. (215-684-8100) www.philamuseum.org.
 
"AUGUST SANDER: GERMAN PORTRAITS, 1918-1933"
Sander's photographs scrutinized the social soul of a country and an era. The faces of peasants, artists and industrialists fill this survey of pictures made during the post-World War I Weimar Republic up to the eve of Hitler's Third Reich. J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles. Mar. 6-June 24.
 
"VERMEER AND THE DELFT SCHOOL"
Organized by the Metropolitan Museum and the National Gallery, London, this exhibition perks up the standard image of Delft as a town of hushed Vermeerian interiors by adding busy historical paintings, princely portraits and attention-grabbing decorative arts items. Metropolitan Museum. Mar. 8-May 27.
 
"GRANDMA MOSES IN THE 21ST CENTURY"
begins with painting from the 1940's by the self-taught upstate New York artist Anna Mary Robertson "Grandma" Moses and ends with her last picture, in 1961. Her work was overexposed in the past, but she's really good. National Museum of Women in the Arts, Washington. Mar. 15-June 10. (202-783-5000) www.nmwa.org. Traveling to the San Diego Museum of Art (June 30-Aug. 26); Orlando Museum of Art (Sept. 15-Nov. 11); Brooklyn Museum of Art (Dec. 1-Jan. 27, 2002); Gilcrease Museum of American History and Art, Tulsa (Feb. 23-April 20, 2002); Columbus Museum of Art, Ohio (May 11-July 28, 2002); Portland Art Museum, Oregon (Aug. 17-Dec. 1, 2002).
 
* "WILLIAM BLAKE, 1757-1827"
More than 200 works, including one-of-a-kind hand-printed and painted books, by this British poet, political revolutionary and mystic, who saw angels sitting in trees, are in a show organized by the Tate Gallery. Metropolitan Museum. Mar. 27-June 24.
 
"THE PLEDGE OF FRIENDSHIP: AMERICAN PHOTOGRAPHY AND MALE AFFECTION, 1840-1918"
Organized by the art historian David Deitcher, an examination of images of male intimacy as seen in daguerreotypes, tintypes and paper photographs from the 19th and early 20th centuries. Also on view in what sounds like a dynamite lineup: the first museum survey devoted to Kiki Smith's photographs, and a show titled "Behind Closed Doors: The Art of Hans Bellmer." International Center for Photography Midtown. Mar. 29-June 10.
 
April
 
"RALPH FASANELLA'S AMERICA"
A retrospective of paintings by the wonderful second generation Italian-American artist who depicted minutely detailed scenes of labor history, American politics and his own urban working-class life. Fenimore Art Museum, Cooperstown, N.Y. April 1-Dec. 31.
 
"AZTLAN TODAY: THE CHICANO POSTNATION"
Aztlan is the legendary territory, covering parts of both Mesoamerica and the American Southwest, claimed as homeland by the ancient Aztecs and by Mexican-Americans or Chicanos today. This show includes photography and video by a dozen Chicano artists, including Laura Aguilar, Daniel Joseph Martinez and Kathy Vargas. Bronx Museum of the Arts. April 5-Sept. 9. Another show, "The Road to Aztlan: Art from a Mythic Homeland," is a historical investigation of the cultural makeup, ancient and modern, of the region. Los Angeles County Museum of Art. May 13-Aug. 26.
 
"SANTOS: SCULPTURE BETWEEN HEAVEN AND EARTH"
An exhibition of small carved wooden polychrome religious figures from the collection of El Museo del Barrio in Manhattan. Newark Museum. April 18-July 29.
 
"MARLENE DUMAS WITH LAYLAH ALI"
Two artists whose very different figurative styles deal indirectly with implied narratives of repression and violence. Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston. April 18-July 1. (617-266-5152) www.icpboston.org. Work by Ms. Ali is also on view at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts, San Francisco. Feb. 10-May 6.
 
"MONDRIAN: THE TRANSATLANTIC PAINTINGS"
is a gathering of 15 paintings that the Dutch artist began in Europe and completed in America after he fled Europe during World War II. Organized in part by Harvard's Straus Center for Conservation, the show offers detailed technical evidence of the revisions the artist made to the original paintings -- a jazz fanatic, he wanted to add what he called "more boogie-woogie" -- as well as insights into his technical process. Busch-Reisinger Museum at Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. April 28-July 22. (617-495-9400) www.artmuseums.harvard.edu.
 
"L'ESPRIT NOUVEAU: PURISM IN PARIS, 1918-1925"
The classical geometric simplicity and machine aesthetic promoted by the likes of Le Corbusier and Fernand Leger are the focus of this exhibition at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. April 29-Aug. 5.
 
"SPIRIT WORLD: MEDIUMISTIC AND VISIONARY MESSAGES"
is an international show of work by self-taught artists who generated images while in a state of trance, or who chose to experiment with mystic or metaphysical issues. Museum of American Folk Art. April-Sept. (212-977-7170) www.folkartmuseum.org.
 
May
 
"JACQUELINE KENNEDY: THE WHITE HOUSE YEARS"
The Inaugural pillbox hat and the red dress she wore for her televised White House tour are among the 80 items associated with America's style-setting First Lady put together for this show by the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum. May 1-July 15.
 
* "OVER THE LINE: THE ART AND LIFE OF JACOB LAWRENCE"
This retrospective of around 90 paintings by the esteemed artist who died this June coincides with the publication of a catalogue raisonne of his work. The show is organized by the Phillips Collection, Washington. May 26-Aug. 19. (202-387-2151) www.phillipscollection.
org. Traveling to the Whitney Museum (Nov. 8, 2001-Feb. 3, 2002); Detroit Institute of Arts (Feb. 23-May 19, 2002); Los Angeles County Museum (June 16-Sept. 8, 2002); Museum of Fine Arts, Houston (Oct. 6-Jan. 5, 2003). The artist's "Toussaint L'Ouverture Series" will be on view at the Norton Museum of Art, West Palm Beach, Fla., Oct. 7-Dec. 3. (561-832-5196) www.norton.org. His two early series of paintings devoted to Frederick Douglass and Harriet Tubman will be at the Speed Art Museum, Louisville, Ky., Feb. 13-April 22. (502-634-2700).
www.speedmuseum.org.
 
June
 
"YVES TANGUY"
A centennial birthday retrospective for the French Surrealist artist who painted bad-dream moonscapes running off to the horizon. Menil Collection, Houston. June 1-Sept. 16. (713-525-9400) www.menil.org.
 
"SNOWDON"
According to the director of the National Portrait Gallery in London, Lord Snowdon, ex-husband of Her Royal Highness Princess Margaret, "has known everyone worth knowing." Here are his pictures of fabulous people -- kings and queens and actors and models -- to prove it. Yale Center for British Art. June 15-Aug. 19. (203-432-2800) www.yale.edu/ycba.
 
"MARISOL"
A selective survey of some two dozen of this artist's large-scale Pop-inflected figurative sculptures made from carving, constructing, drawing and painting. Organized by Judy Collischan for the Neuberger Museum of Art, Purchase, N.Y. June 17-Sept. 2. (914-251-6100) www.neuberger.org.
 
"MIES IN BERLIN"
includes 30 designs by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe done between 1905 and 1938, the year he emigrated to the United States. Museum of Modern Art. June 21-Sept. 11, 2001).
 
"WORSHIPPING THE ANCESTORS: RITUAL AND COMMEMORATIVE PORTRAITS IN LATE IMPERIAL CHINA"
In China, ancestors were powerful beings and their portraits were venerated. Three dozen near-life-size examples from the Qing Dynasty (1644-1911) will cast their imperturbable glances around the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery in Washington. June 17-Sept. 9.
 
"MICHELANGELO DRAWINGS AND OTHER TREASURES FROM THE CASA BUONARROTI, FLORENCE"
will have about two dozen pieces by the man himself, including studies for the Sistine Chapel. High Museum of Art, Atlanta. June 23-Sept. 2.
 
"H. C. WESTERMANN"
The first career survey for Westermann (1922-1982) since the Whitney's in 1979 includes his kooky, often aggressively pessimistic sculptures and drawings. It begins at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago. June 30-Sept. 23. Traveling to the Hirshhorn in Washington (Feb. 14-May 2, 2002); the Menil Collection, Houston (Oct. 4, 2002-Jan. 5, 2003). A show of the artist's prints will be at the Smart Museum, University of Chicago. June 28-Sept. 9.
 
Compiled with the assistance of Anna Bahney.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A gold comb decorated with a battle scene will be in "The Golden Deer of Eurasia: Scythian and Sarmatian Treasures From the Russian Steppes" at the Metropolitan Museum in October. (State Hermitage Museum/Metropolitan Museum of Art)(pg. 94); "Ranch Near San Luis Obispo, Evening Light," 1935, by Phil Paradise, will be in "Made in California" at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art in October. (Buck Collection, Laguna Hills, Calif.)(pg. 99); This 1998 photograph by Rochelle Costi will be in "Ultrabaroque: Aspects of Post-Latin American Art" at the Museum of Contemporary Art San Diego at La Jolla, starting this month. (Museum of Contemporary Art, San Diego)(pg. 103); This 1860's photograph of a Manipuri polo player will be in "India Through the Lens: Photography 1840-1911" at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery in Washington in December. (Arthur M. Sackler Gallery)(pg. 105)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); INDIA (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MANIPUR, INDIA (59%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: ARTHUR M SACKLER GALLERY (84%); ARTHUR M SACKLER GALLERY (84%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARTHUR M SACKLER GALLERY (84%); ARTHUR M SACKLER GALLERY (84%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); INDIA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MANIPUR, INDIA (59%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); PAINTING (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL ARTS (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); HISTORY (76%); SWEEPSTAKES (72%); ART HISTORY (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (64%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (64%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (51%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%); 

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



243 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 100; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE;
Design That Coaxes Buildings Out of Themselves

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP

 BODY:
THE term "contextual" having become debased by those who fundamentally despise the whole idea of architecture, the time has come to speak of "relational" design -- buildings that interact with their surroundings in full dimension instead of dumbly mimicking the scale and form of their next-door neighbors. We should think of architecture as a supremely interactive art -- a participatory medium that transforms configurations of scale, dimension, shape, proximity, space, time, energy, cultural meaning, economic value and land use.
In the coming months, there will be many opportunities to enrich the vocabulary for talking about architecture in relational terms. Perhaps the most spirited of these projects is the continuing development of SPARCity -- Eric Owen Moss's name for the discontinuous loop of urban development he has been designing for Culver City, Calif.. (The project is named for the air rights over the former tracks of a Southern Pacific freight line). 
 Since the mid-1980's, Moss, supported by two enlightened clients, Frederick and Laurie Smith, has been converting abandoned factory buildings for use by firms specializing in graphic design, advertising, film production and other post-industrial businesses. This month, SPARCity reaches critical mass with the completion of the Stealth Building, as it has become known, the ground-hugging centerpiece of a newly redeveloped Culver City block. The building vaguely recalls the bomber's tapered horizontal profile.This is the authentic New Urbanism -- the productive future of the tattered industrial center.
The Tang Teaching Museum and Art Gallery at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., is the first project in the Northeast by Antoine Predock, the architectural shaman of the American Southwest. Designed to foster crossdisciplinary experiments in the arts, the Tang is finished in stone, metal and concrete, and is surrounded by a circle of white pines. Two giant staircases converge to form a symbolic crossroads of culture and nature. Not since the glory days of the Beaux Arts have we seen such an extravagant representation of the ascent to Parnassus.
Since no relationship matters more than the unstable links between older urban centers and the suburbs encircling them, the most important event this season will be the presidential campaign. Between now and November, we will find out whether either candidate has anything substantial to say on urban policy. The past eight years have seen declining crime rates and increased participation from the private sector in urban life. But the Clinton administration wasted the opportunity to invest in housing, transportation and public space, or to revitalize the urban core as an economic engine.
Nowhere have the shortcomings of urban policy been clearer than in Baltimore, a city that has been at the forefront of innovation for three decades. Despite urban homesteading, the Harborside festival marketplace, the Camden Yards ball park and other initiatives undertaken by the public and private spheres, Baltimore continues to epitomize the city as a permanent invalid of modern life. The Student Arts Center, designed by Tod Williams and Billie Tsien for Johns Hopkins University, adds a new layer to the city's cultural mix. Intended to bring art into an environment dedicated to science, the three-winged building creates a new campus landscape with courtyards, paths, and views.
Things are really cooking this year for Zaha Hadid. Her most ambitious built work to date will open in December. A tramway station and car park in the French city of Strasbourg, the project is an infrastructural intervention designed to reduce car traffic in the central district. Like Peter Eisenman's design for the Staten Island ferry terminal, Hadid's forms are derived from the motion patterns of different transportation modes. And what, by the way, is the status of Eisenman's fine plan?
Not one of these forthcoming projects is "appropriate." Isn't that great? Like "contextual," the word "appropriate" has ceased to be constructive. Buildings can be good, bad, mediocre or pointless. But "appropriateness" is a useless gauge of architectural value. Rather, it has become equivalent to the notion of progress in the postwar decades. It represents the evasion of responsibility for personal preference. "Don't hold me accountable. History made me do it. Peer pressure made me do it." Mediocrity loves company.
Our understanding of older buildings will also benefit from the relational approach. David Leatherbarrow's "Uncommon Ground," a book due in October from MIT Press, revisits the work of Richard Neutra and other mid-20th century modernists to show that so-called International Style architects were often acutely sensitive to the local particulars of their building sites. By emphasizing the section (the cutaway view) over the plan and elevation, Leatherbarrow demonstrates how modern construction methods introduced a new connection between the interior and the exterior of buildings.
PHILIPPE STARCK specializes in the surreal dimension of the inside-outside equation. The hotels Starck has designed for Ian Schrager typically contrast a minimally remodeled exterior with rooms that retain a sense of unfamiliarity despite Starck's repeated use of signature motifs. The 1,000-room Hudson, Schrager's latest oasis of style at (356 West 58th St.), features a year-round private garden -- a Gramercy Park for sophisticated transients -- furnished with overscaled, Alice in Wonderlandish horticultural tools. Guest rooms will feature bedside lamps with shades painted by Francesco Clemente.
Also due this fall: the final design for Schrager's Astor hotel, in the East Village. A collaboration between Rem Koolhaas and the Swiss team Herzog and de Meuron, this will be Schrager's first ground-up building. It also signifies the idea of collaboration as architecture's new wave.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, an architectural rendering and drawing of Antoine Predock's Tang Teaching Museum and Art Gallery in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. At left, a room in Philippe Starck's Hudson Hotel in Manhattan. (Philippe Starck)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (85%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (85%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (85%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STUDENT ARTS CENTER (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: STUDENT ARTS CENTER (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (85%); MARYLAND, USA (85%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (85%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%); CRIME RATES (60%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



244 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 27; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Where Buttons Are Only the Beginning

BYLINE: By DICK AHLES

 BODY:
IN 1896, the Republican boss Mark Hanna distributed phony half dollars bearing the likeness of the Democratic presidential candidate William Jennings Bryan and the legend "In God We Trust . . . for the other forty seven cents." It was the Republicans' way of warning what would happen to the economy should free silver champion Bryan defeat William McKinley in the coming election.
The bogus coin is among scores of political artifacts being assembled by the Museum of American Political Life at the University of Hartford -- which describes itself as the nation's only museum devoted exclusively to presidential campaign memorabilia -- for a special election-year exhibition recalling six significant presidential elections. 
 Items from the elections of 1800 (Thomas Jefferson vs. John Adams), 1828 (Andrew Jackson vs. John Quincy Adams), 1860 (Abraham Lincoln vs. Stephen Douglas, John Bell and John Breckenridge), 1896 (McKinley vs. Bryan), 1932 (Franklin Delano Roosevelt vs. Herbert Hoover) and 1980 (Ronald Reagan vs. Jimmy Carter) will be showcased from today through the end of the year. The items come from a collection of 60,000 (only the Smithsonian Institution has a larger collection).
The museum' director, Zina Davis, said the 1800 election was selected for the exhibition because it was the first in which the presidency passed from one party, the Federalists, to another, the Democratic Republicans. By 1828, suffrage had been given nearly all white males the right to vote in elections previously reserved for white male property owners. These new voters turned out to help Andrew Jackson defeat President John Quincy Adams.
In 1860, the issue was, of course, the future of the Union as the election of Lincoln led to the secession of the Southern states and war. The McKinley-Bryan race in 1896 was the first in which big money played a major role. Big business, frightened at the prospect of electing the populist Bryan, gave more than $7 million to McKinley while Bryan was able to raise only $300,000.
Twentieth-century elections gave the nation two of its most charismatic presidents, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who led the nation through the Depression and World War II as the only four-term president, and Ronald Reagan, whose 1980 election was chosen because it ushered in a new conservative era.
The jewel of a museum is a perfect election-year destination. The first thing a visitor sees is a life-sized, torch-light parade of 17 uniformed Lincoln supporters known as the Hartford "Wide Awakes."
Their parade route begins at the museum's entrance and winds down a spiral staircase to the 7,000-square-foot exhibition area, where a 10-minute film on the history of political campaigns. Included in the permanent exhibition is a 70-foot time line containing nearly a thousand banners, buttons, photographs, medallions, snuff boxes, fans, bandanas, match covers and other knicknacks from every election since George Washington's. Only a relatively small fraction of the collection can be exhibited at any given time.
The nucleus of the collection was given to the university by J. Doyle DeWitt, who was president and chairman of the Travelers Insurance Company in the 1950's and 60's. Mr. DeWitt sent Travelers employees to national conventions and had insurance agents across the country on the lookout for additions to his collection. He was one of a group of Hartford citizens who founded the University of Hartford in 1959, the same year he began giving the university items from his collection. What remained went to the university on Mr. DeWitt's death in 1972, but no provision was made for housing the collection and it remained in storage for nearly two decades.
It's rather appropriate that funds for the political museum finally came from a pork barrel, which "Safire's Political Dictionary" defines as "the state or national treasury into which politicians and government officials dip for 'pork' or funds for local projects."
The politician doing the dipping on behalf of the museum was Senator Lowell P. Weicker Jr. In 1985 he offered an amendment to a National Library Expansion Act that provided $6.5 million for the university to build a home for the DeWitt collection and the items added to it since 1972. President Reagan put the appropriation on a list of amendments to be eliminated but Mr. Weicker, as was his custom, ignored the President's recommendation and pushed the bill through.
The museum became part of a $20 million student center and opened in 1989.
The Museum of American Political Life at the University of Hartford (200 Bloomfield Avenue, West Hartford; 860-768-4090) is open Tuesday to Friday from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., Saturday and Sunday from noon to 4. It is closed Mondays and university holidays. Admission is free but contributions are appreciated.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Edmund B. Sullivan, a former curator, helps mount the current exhibition of presidential campaign memorabilia in the Museum of American Political Life at the University of Hartford. Lower far left: Edward Larson's 1986 sculpture, "Whirligig"; when its blades revolve, President Reagan waves and the cabinet members salute. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: TRAVELERS INSURANCE CO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (83%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (83%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (55%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (83%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (83%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (55%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); MEN (76%); COINS & COINAGE (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); PARADES & MARCHES (63%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



245 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1607 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/Rockville Centre;
A Community Not Easily Pigeonholed

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
NOT quite fitting the Long Island profile of a village, a town or a city, Rockville Centre combines elements of all three in a self-contained setting on the South Shore of Nassau County where expensive to moderately priced single family homes combine with a large number of cooperative apartments.
It is as if the rare appellation "centre" was coined precisely to define this place, officially an incorporated village since 1893 but with certain unique aspects that set it apart from other areas in affluent Nassau. 
 Foremost among these is a municipally owned electric company with rates low enough to have spared Rockville Centre from Long Island's years of agony over rates the former Long Island Lighting Company charged. Average bills are roughly half of what others pay, the village said. The Long Island Power Authority charges almost $71 for 500 kilowatts of electricity; a village resident would pay a bit less than $38.
There are also city-style services, including a police department; a municipal water utility, whose presence is proclaimed by a huge water tower on Maple Avenue built in a style that might be called mid-20th-century futuresque; and a public housing authority that tends to seniors and low-income residents.
The Rockville Centre housing market runs the gamut from subsidized apartments to gemlike residential areas with towering trees and Tudor, colonial and Victorian-style houses selling for well above $500,000, a range unusual in Nassau County, where in many communities housing and economic status are confined to a far narrower band. With an African-American community of long standing, the village also has a racial mix atypical for Nassau.
The Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Centre is spiritual headquarters for Long Island's more than one million Catholics, and St. Agnes Cathedral on Quealy Place is where new diocesan priests are ordained.
People familiar with Rockville Centre say there is a pronounced tendency of residents to stay on and on, upgrading from starter to larger houses and then eventually snugging into one of the many cooperative apartment complexes. Nearly a quarter of village residents are seniors, a high percentage for a Long Island community, and the village has two senior-citizen centers and an array of senior services.
Mayor Eugene J. Murray, a lifelong resident, who recently turned 75, said many houses he knew as a boy still stand, and shine. "I have seen many changes, but I have also seen that residential homes have been preserved, and we are striving to keep it that way," he said.
The village is currently adding parking near the Long Island Rail Road station and refurbishing downtown areas. A newly installed free-standing "millennium" clock in a new pedestrian plaza near the station looks back, in its boxy, nondigital style, to the 20th century rather than ahead to the 21st, befitting the architectural mood of the village.
Cathleen Quinn Nolan, a lawyer who has lived in the village since she was 11 years old, said she liked the small-town cheerfulness exemplified by meter maids who apologized about giving tickets. "You say, 'Rats,' and they always say they're sorry," she said.
But parking is a problem, particularly in downtown commercial areas along Sunrise Highway and Merrick Road and at the railroad station, where frequent trains provide swift service to Manhattan on tracks that are thoughtfully elevated -- no loud whistles at grade crossings here.
THE good rail link to the city and a local public school system that sets high standards for students attract buyers in a housing market that has cooled slightly since last spring, but still sizzles.
"At least buyers are not entering into bidding wars as much," said Elizabeth Souto-Wallace, a broker and an owner of Century 21 Sherlock Homes in Rockville Centre. "You don't have that frenzy, but it's still a very strong seller's market."
Real estate professionals insist a house in Rockville Centre is money in the bank, with high interest. "I have never seen anybody lose money on a house, not ever" said Pat Cantwell, the office manager at the Rockville Realty Corporation.
Most of the village's 6,000 single-family houses were built between 1900 and 1950, giving residential areas a long-settled and comfortable look. They range in price from the mid-$700,000's in the Canterbury enclave, where spectacular Tudors may be found, to the more affordable Greystone area nearer downtown, where prices are in the $300,000's.
In general, higher-priced areas are in the northern part of the village, and less-expensive areas are to the south. Most lots are from a third to half an acre in size, and garages are frequently detached.
Co-ops, which account for the bulk of other housing, offer two-bedroom units in the $150,000 to $175,000 range. Ms. Souto-Wallace said co-op studios selling for less than $60,000 may also be found.
At the 84-unit Park Lane, one of two condominium complexes, two-bedroom units are about $300,000, up $50,000 from five years ago. Two-bedroom rentals are about $1,600 in rental buildings, or about $1,300 in two-family homes. Rockville Centre was built out years ago, and there is little new construction.
Halandia Court, a 165-unit privately owned subsidized apartment complex, is for the disabled and people 62 and older, regardless of whether they ever lived in the village. Rents are 30 percent of income for singles earning up to $26,800 annually and for couples earning $30,600 or less. The complex has a five-year waiting list.
The village housing authority manages rent-subsidized complexes, including the 164-unit Mill Court, for low-income families, and 50 units for people 62 and older on Merrick Road. The village helps place seniors in subsidized units.
Mercy Medical Center, a major employer, is at the village's northern boundary. Molloy College, established in 1955 by the Dominican Sisters, is next door and offers B.A., B.S. and Master of Science degrees. It has extensive noncredit adult education courses.
The village has seven parks with playing fields and playgrounds and six others, including a village green, for sitting or walking. They cover 140 acres. Ocean beaches are about 15 minutes away.
Just west of the village, Hempstead Lake State Park offers sweeping fields, picnic areas, soccer fields, a lake and three ponds.
Village businesses include an array of stores and specialty shops, including Spymaster, which invites customers to "ask about our new nanny cam." There are 10 banks, several investment firms, two seven-screen movie theaters and nine professional office buildings.
There are also a growing number of restaurants and take-out places, including the First Tortilla Grill on Maple Avenue, a Tex-Mex eat-in or take-out place where a tasty quesadilla with Monterey Jack cheese is only $2.19.
The village Department of Parks and Recreation has a book full of programs for all ages. A 10-session parent-toddler workshop allows 24- to 36-month-old children to go to school with their parents or caregivers. Fees begin at $90 for residents and $97.50 for nonresidents. A troupe for people 60 and older, the Center Stage Players, enlists local talent for performances at the village's Leonard Sandel Senior Center. The Guild for the Arts, another village group, sponsors concerts and musical performances throughout the year.
The nearly 3,500-student Rockville Centre Union Free School District includes five elementary schools for grades K-5, a middle school for grades 6-8 and South Side High School. More than 80 percent of the 241 graduates in the class of 2000 earned Regents diplomas. The percentage is among the highest for any school district on Long Island. More than 90 percent of graduates have gone on to higher education.
THE high school offers a special International Baccalaureate Program for academic achievers. The stringent two-year curriculum requires mastery in six academic groups: English, foreign language, social studies, experimental sciences, mathematics and arts. Successful students earn an I.B. Diploma. Some 69 students earned the degree last year.
In March, Newsweek magazine rated the high school the 23rd best in the country based on the number of students in advanced placement and I.B. programs.
A before- and after-school program is opened to students in kindergarten through fifth grade. The morning program, which begins at 7 a.m at the child's home school and includes breakfast, costs $100 monthly for five days a week. The afternoon program, from 3:30 to 6:30 p.m., costs $190 monthly for five days.
St. Agnes Cathedral School, a Roman Catholic school for pre-K through grade 8, has about 900 students. A small portion of Rockville Centre is in the Oceanside School District.
By Long Island standards, Rockville Centre developed early. The village and surrounding areas were inhabited by the Reckouackie Indians before Dutch and English settlers came in the 17th century, and the area became known as the Rockaways.
When the first post office opened in 1849 in what is now the village, postal officials chose the name Rockville Centre from among several suggestions, setting in place the "r" before "e" spelling that has confounded spellers ever since. The "Rock" honored Mordecai "Rock" Smith, a prominent Methodist minister.
Long Island Rail Road service began in 1867, and five years later a school district was established in the village. South Side High School opened in 1892, the first public high school on Long Island's South Shore. The building that housed it has been the village hall since the 1920's, a decade of early housing growth.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, St. Agnes Cathedral, where an anvil recalls church beginnings; above, millennium clock in a plaza near the railroad station.; Housing choices range from Tudors on Marlborough Road, left, to subsidized apartments. (Photographs by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "GAZETTEER"
3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath colonial at 91 Rockaway Avenue, $289,000.
3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath colonial at 271 Lincoln Avenue, $319,000.
5-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath colonial at 259 Hempstead Avenue, $725,000.
POPULATION: 25,064 (1997 estimate).
AREA: 3.3 square miles.
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $75,781 (1997 estimate).
MEDIAN PRICE OF A ONE-FAMILY HOUSE: $330,000.
TAX ON MEDIAN-PRICE HOUSE: $9,000.
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $310,000.
MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $270,000.
MEDIAN PRICE OF A 2-BEDROOM CONDOMINIUM: $300,000.
MEDIAN PRICE OF A 2-BEDROOM COOPERATIVE: $160,000.
MIDRANGE RENT FOR A 2-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $1,400.
PUBLIC-SCHOOL EXPENDITURE PER PUPIL: $13,790.
CODES: Area, 516; ZIP, 11570.
DISTANCE FROM MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 25 miles.
RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION: 35 minutes on Long Island Rail Road, $7 one way, $154 monthly.
GOVERNMENT: Mayor (Eugene Murray) and four at-large trustees all serving four-year terms.
JUBILEE 2000: St. Agnes Cathedral, a looming presence in the village since 1935, has been a regional center for the Roman Catholic Church's Jubilee 2000, a global celebration of the birth of Jesus. The yearlong event is being observed by all 134 Catholic parishes in Nassau and Suffolk Counties within the Rockville Centre diocese.
The celebration on Long Island has highlighted growing diversity as recently arrived Hispanics and Catholics from Korea, Vietnam and Poland have swelled parish ranks. The trend is also noted in Rockville Centre, where the Hispanic population has risen in recent years.
An anvil in front of St. Agnes recalls church beginnings in Rockville Centre in 1887, when the first Mass was celebrated in a blacksmith shop in which the anvil once sang out.
 
Map of Nassau County shows the location of of Rockville Centre and the St. Agnes Cathedral

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (83%); NG (LSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (83%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (83%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (83%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (56%); ROCKVILLE CENTRE (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROCKVILLE CENTRE (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); RELIGION (89%); CITIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (70%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



246 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 30; Column 4; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 9-10-00: The Ethicist;
Perk Up

BYLINE: By Randy Cohen

 BODY:
Two of us at work travel to the same city to check on our project. One stays at an expensive upscale hotel and receives hotel credits. The other chooses to stay at a much cheaper hotel, closer to the job and equally nice, but without that bonus. Is the first person taking advantage of the corporation? -- B. K., St. Paul
If your bonus-loving colleague adheres to the company's rules on travel and is honest with the boss, he's doing nothing underhanded. While it is a fine thing to minimize expenses to your employer, you are not obliged to squeeze dimes by pitching tents beside the Interstates. In fact, choosing more austere quarters could be false economy. Your boss may prefer you pampered and pleased; that can make for a more productive worker. If hotel credits contribute to your coworker's contentment, there's no harm in that. 
 To forestall the resentment a frugal traveler may feel for a sybaritic colleague, you might suggest that your boss offer each employee a standard travel allowance and a choice: squander it on high living or choose modest accommodations and pocket the savings. Or the boss might have one travel agent make the arrangements for all employees, booking everyone into similar accommodations. Or he could issue everyone a folding tent and a road map and enjoy the team spirit engendered by common suffering.
I'm a university professor, and I often get unsolicited copies of textbooks from publishers hoping that I'll adopt them for my course. They clutter up my shelves until book buyers come through, offering cash for old texts. Is it wrong for me to sell them and pocket the money? Should I donate them instead? -- Anonymous, Evanston, Ill.
The publishers sent the books hoping you'd find them worthy of inclusion in your class. They were not a bribe. They're yours to do with what you will. Not every perk is a transgression. (At a TV show where I worked, we received many T-shirts emblazoned with the names of Kevin Costner movies; I saw using them to clean up after the cat as a legitimate form of film criticism.) Unless university policy prohibits your selling these books, go to it.
If you still feel uneasy, note that some magazines give unsolicited books to the public library; others offer them to their unpaid interns. Consider following their examples or donating your book money to a student-aid organization.
I work in an office suite shared by different companies. The occupants of the offices across from mine spend their day with the door open, on the speakerphone, screaming about their firm's key strategic and tactical decisions. I could easily record everything they say. Would it be legally and morally wrong to do so and sell the tapes to their competitors? -- Anonymous, New York
Ethically, your plan is pretty shabby. If you're vexed by their screaming, why not ask your neighbors to keep it down? Their inconsiderate behavior does not justify your industrial espionage.
I write the Ethicist, not the Legalist -- I am not qualified to rule on the legality of your contemplated scheme. I can caution you that the laws on taping vary from state to state, as Linda Tripp discovered to her dismay.
I recently started a temp gig at a church, and they've intimated that they would like to hire me. I'm concerned that they'll ask me what my faith is -- agnostic on good days. I think they may have gotten the wrong idea because they saw me reading the Bible in the chapel. Is it wrong to work for a church and not believe in God? -- J. H., Toronto
If your work is technical in nature -- bookkeeping, say, or plumbing, or even organ maintenance -- your own theological opinions are beside the point. This is not hypocrisy; it's tolerance. I doubt that the minister would object to his car being repaired by a Hindu, Muslim, Jew or atheist. Unless you have strong personal objections to that church's teachings, there is no reason you shouldn't work there.
If, however, you're actually conducting services or otherwise participating in the church's spiritual life, all concerned would probably feel much better if your personal beliefs were in accord with the congregation's. And if you refrained from playing "In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida" on the organ.
A friend purchased what he thought was a stolen fine watch, at a discount. I can see from the way it has worn that it is not authentic. Should I tell him? I don't want to shatter his love for it or insult him. But I also don't want him to remain misled or make this mistake again. -- M. R., New York
If I understand correctly, what was thought merely to be a case of receiving stolen goods turned out instead to be a swindle involving counterfeit products, and it's unclear to you if continued deception on your part is the honorable way to treat a friend and his bauble? I'm just relieved that no one got killed. And now I've got to go lie down a put a cold compress on my forehead.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christophe Niemann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); ETHICS (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); TEXTBOOKS (69%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (64%); LIBRARIES (64%); MOVIE REVIEWS (63%); FILM (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



247 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
In Neptune, a Tech Park Plan for Route 66

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

DATELINE: NEPTUNE TOWNSHIP

 BODY:
THE 167 hilly acres dotted with wetlands and thick woods along Route 66 in the north-central portion of this Monmouth County township have long defied development. But now, a group of New Jersey investors has advanced a plan to turn most of the property into a four-million-square-foot technology and office park.
Last month, Garden State Hi-Tech Park L.L.C., a Neptune development company, was granted general site plan approval from the Neptune Township Planning Board to develop the commercially zoned property. The $400 million project, to be called Garden State Hi-Tech Park, will consist of 18 two- to six-story buildings and a 12-story, 200-room hotel and conference center, the developers said. The park, which will be built in phases over 10 to 20 years, depending on market demand, will also have underground parking for up to 12,000 cars as well as a helipad, the developers said. 
 About 70 acres of the site, most of them containing wetlands, will remain undeveloped. Under state law, wetlands are protected from development.
Construction of the project's first phase, with 150,000 to 450,000 square feet of office space, is expected to start by next spring, said Kenneth E. Himsel, director of development for the group. The first phase must still receive final approval from the township, and developers say that construction will not begin until a tenant leases a percentage of the space.
Financing for the initial phase is to be provided by banks and the partners, who have developed residential and commercial projects in New Jersey, Connecticut and New York. The partners have invested $2 million in the Neptune project, Mr. Himsel said.
"We looked beyond the wetlands and saw that it had great potential, given its location," he said. In addition to being on Route 66, the site is bisected by Route 18 and is close to Exits 100 and 102 of the Garden State Parkway and to Interstate 92, making access convenient. The site's development, Mr. Himsel added, also comes at a time when large buildings are needed for the high-technology businesses that are moving expanding in Monmouth County.
Though the county has been known more for its seaside resorts than for its technology industry, it is home to operations of AT&T and Lucent Technologies. In addition, it has a variety of housing and a labor pool balanced with skilled and unskilled workers, said Joseph J. Sarno, a senior director at Cushman & Wakefield, the real estate services firm, which is the project's leasing agent.
Indeed, many commercial brokers are using the phrase "Silicon Parkway" for the area in Monmouth County stretching from Exits 102 to 120 of the Garden State Parkway, describing it as New Jersey's emerging version of the technology-rich Silicon Valley in California, Route 128 in Boston and Research Triangle Park in North Carolina.
The Neptune Township technology park, Mr. Sarno added, is being marketed as a place "where larger companies can establish a presence and smaller ones have the flexibility to grow." Prospective tenants include telecommunications and biotechnology firms.
Moreover, he said, his company has been working with six tenants who together are looking for up to 1.25 million square feet of space in the county. In its midyear office market survey, his company reported that the vacancy rate in the county was 5.4 percent, down from 6.5 percent in mid-1999.
The project is moving forward after two years of discussions with Neptune Township officials, who wanted "to take advantage of the strong economy and the southward migration of businesses" by promoting Neptune as a place to do business, said Mayor Kevin B. McMillan. Commercial development, local officials said, would help balance the economic base of their eight-square-mile township of 30,000 people and help keep property taxes stable.
The initial phase of the high-tech park is estimated to generate $726,000 in annual tax revenue for the township and, when complete, a yearly total of nearly $8 million. Over the years, it is also expected to produce at least 5,000 permanent jobs.
Mayor McMillan stressed, however, that the township wanted development that would "improve the overall health of the community" and benefit residents, not overburden municipal services.
STILL, when the township's seven-member Planning Board unanimously voted to approve the project last month, some residents, particularly those who live near the site, expressed concerns about increased traffic and noise. They said they were also worried that a few buildings would be too close to some homes and that so large a project would detract from the area's semirural character.
Michael J. Bascom, the township's economic development director, said the developers would be required to make the necessary road and other improvements to accommodate their project. Mr. Bascom, who is also the township's chief financial officer, added that over the last two years, Neptune has updated its master plan to reflect its direction of growth and created the nonprofit, semiautonomous Neptune Township Economic Development Corporation to attract businesses.
"We were missing out on the economic boom," said Kurt Cavano, president of the economic development group. "We have available land and people looking for jobs."
The results so far include efforts to boost particular neighborhoods in the township, like Ocean Grove, its historic beachfront section. But much of the new development has taken place along Route 66, where most of the township's available commercially zoned land exists, Mr. Bascom said.
During the mid-80's building boom, before the recession of the early 90's, the corridor, touted as the Golden Mile, attracted office structures with a total of about 700,000 square feet. But in the last year, it has drawn commercial developments like a 135,000-square-foot Home Depot store, which is part of a larger project that is expected to add up to 315,000 square feet of retail space. Two other projects planned or nearing completion are expected to add 350,000 square feet of retail space.
The high-tech park, Mr. Bascom said, will serve as the easternmost anchor to the Route 66 corridor, which extends west to Exit 100 of the Garden State Parkway.
The township formerly owned about 70 acres of the park's site. Decades ago, the newspaper that owned the property divided it into small lots that were given to subscribers as part of a promotion. Over time, lot owners who could not develop their sites because the sites were too small stopped paying taxes, and by the early 1980's, the owners lost their land to the township through foreclosure. Others deeded their sites to the township, Mr. Bascom said, noting that the property has been zoned for commercial use for 17 years.
In 1995, the township tried to sell its 70 acres at a public auction. But Mr. Bascom said the property's topography and environmental concerns frustrated developers, who thought the site was too expensive to build on. But he said the township always believed that the site was ripe for development because of its location and because it was connected to public water and sewer services.
In 1998, the township sold its 70 acres for $500,000 to a developer for a retail project that never moved ahead. That year, Garden State bought it for $750,000. Mr. Himsel said buying up the remaining 97 acres of vacant land from various owners provided enough buildable land to accommodate the project as well as add access to the site.
The buildings, to be designed by a Neptune architect, James J. Monteforte, are to have a minimum floor area of 50,000 square feet and follow the natural contours of the land, which rises in elevation from 60 to 150 feet. The developers also intend to offer tenants dual power sources and access to fiber-optic lines. And the grounds will feature man-made waterfalls and ponds, the latter doubling as retention basins for storm water runoff, Mr. Himsel said.
The offices will be laid out with few indoor columns and 9- to 10-foot-high ceilings to accommodate raised floors so that high-tech tenants can install the wires needed for their businesses, added Mr. Sarno, the broker. He said average rents were expected to be $20 a square foot. In Cushman & Wakefield's midyear market survey, the average rent for office space in Monmouth County was listed as $21.69 a square foot.
Mr. Himsel, talking about the county, added, "This is not a case of 'Build it and the tenants will come,' because the tenants are already here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rendering of the first phase of the proposed Garden State Hi-Tech Park in Neptune Township. (Paradigm Productions)
 
Map of Neptune Township, New Jersey, shows the location of the Planned Garden State Hi-Tech Park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (62%); ALU (NYSE) (62%); ALU (BIT) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (62%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (62%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (62%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (84%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (84%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); WETLANDS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); ZONING (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (77%); APPROVALS (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); LABOR FORCE (73%); RESORTS (70%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); 

PERSON: DAVID DAVIS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



248 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1;Page 1;Column 3;National Desk

LENGTH: 1792 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VOTERS;
PRESIDENTIAL RACE IS BEING RUN HARD IN KEYSTONE STATE

SERIES: BATTLEGROUNDS: Pennsylvania

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: SCRANTON, Pa., Sept. 8

 BODY:
"Battleground Scranton," said a banner headline in The Tribune here on Tuesday.
"It's beginning to seem as though they're running for president of Pennsylvania," commented The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette on Thursday. 
 Little wonder. This week alone, Vice President Al Gore campaigned in Philadelphia on Sunday, Pittsburgh on Monday and the Scranton area on Thursday. Gov. George W. Bush of Texas was in Allentown and Scranton on Tuesday, Scranton on Wednesday and Pittsburgh on Friday. Lest anyone's attention wander, Dick Cheney, Mr. Bush's running mate, hit the Philadelphia suburbs.
By early this week, the Democrats and the Republicans had each spent more than $5 million in Pennsylvania, in soft money and hard, on television advertising. By late this week, Mr. Bush had been to the state 14 times and Mr. Gore had made no fewer than 17 campaign visits. On the most recent one he pleased local chauvinists by commenting, "I believe that this state is literally 'the Keystone state,' and I'm going to continue to spend an enormous amount of time here."
Hyperbole aside, Pennsylvania is one of the handful of states -- 6, 8, maybe 10, depending on who's counting -- where the presidential race of 2000 will be decided. Even after decades of population decline, it still casts 23 electoral votes, more than any other closely contested state. So when public and private polls suggested the start of a slide toward Mr. Gore, Mr. Bush stormed in to try to halt the slide, and the vice president arrived to try to keep the momentum going.
"No question about it," Gov. Tom Ridge, a Bush confidant, said in an interview. "Gore got a huge bump out of his party's convention. It was very surprising, an enigma to me. But I'll tell you, we're not in such bad shape. Even or a few points behind, running against the vice president when times are good, a strong economy and no war -- sign me up, I'll take a shot."
Mr. Ridge said he thought Mr. Bush needed to "maximize voters' chances to see him personally, because he's the more likable of the two candidates, close up." Mr. Bush seems to be moving in that direction, with his staff's promises on Thursday to hold town meetings like the ones he held in the primaries.
What Mr. Ridge did not say, but virtually every other politician in the state has been saying for weeks, is that Mr. Bush has been handicapped by his vice-presidential choice. Had he chosen Mr. Ridge, the pros here say, he would have won the state with ease and gained in other states that are witnessing hand-to-hand political combat this fall, like Michigan.
But instead of making that choice, said Prof. Joseph DiSarro, chairman of the political science department at Washington and Jefferson College, "he chose Dick Cheney, who has been a dud."
"No excitement at all," Professor DiSarro added. "Two white Anglo-Saxon Protestant males, which doesn't put much of a fresh face on the Republican Party. Whereas the Democrats chose Lieberman, who's perfect for Pennsylvania -- a very personable but unconventional and socially conservative Democrat."
This is a somewhat unconventional state, politically speaking. It has relatively few registered independents. It has almost half a million more registered Democrats than registered Republicans, but the Democrats are an unorthodox breed -- more conservative than most in their party and much less supportive of ideas like abortion rights and gun control. Bill Clinton carried the state easily in 1992 and 1996, but Republicans control the governorship, three of the four other statewide offices and both Senate seats.
Paradoxically, given the paucity of officially independent voters, party-lining does not play well here. A candidate is "better off here to be viewed as an independent," Mr. Ridge said, "because up-and-down anything -- liberal, conservative -- is not good."
Pennsylvania's population of 12 million is older than that of most states; many young people leave, and few come from elsewhere. Only 13 Congressional districts have older populations than Representative Paul E. Kanjorski's district, centered on Wilkes-Barre, a weary anthracite coal town southwest of here, and all 13 are in the retirement havens of Florida and Arizona.
In Scranton and Wilkes-Barre, hardscrabble places with scores of vacant and boarded-up buildings downtown, people count on Washington for help. For decades, they got it from their men in Washington, Representatives Daniel J. Flood and Joseph M. McDade, but both left office under clouds of scandal. Some local people still say of them, "If they stole, at least they stole for us."
So issues like Social Security, Medicare and especially prescription drugs, important everywhere this fall, are critical in this region and this state. Both candidates have shown commercials about health care in Pennsylvania, and next month a group from Scranton and elsewhere in the state is taking a bus trip to Canada to buy drugs, because they are cheaper there.
Mr. Kanjorski, a Democrat, recently held eight town meetings on health issues and drew the largest crowds of his career -- more than 500 people in some cases, many of them recently left in the lurch when two of the area's major managed care plans, run by Blue Cross and Geisinger, were closed.
Under pressure for weeks to state a detailed position on prescription drugs, Mr. Bush did so on his visits to Allentown and Scranton, proposing a plan that would rely much more heavily than Mr. Gore's on the states and on the big health care providers. Mr. Ridge had been among those pressing him in private conversations, and he enthusiastically supported the new Bush plan. Pennsylvania already has the largest state prescription drug program, paid for by state lottery money; it will cost $290 million this year.
Mindful of the need to attract uncommitted voters, who here as elsewhere tend to be turned off by excessive partisanship, Mr. Bush repeatedly promised a bipartisan approach to the health care problem and mentioned Democratic senators with whom he said he could work well, like John B. Breaux of Louisiana.
"We are in a very critical week," said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, dean of the Annenberg School of Communication at the University of Pennsylvania, which studies news coverage. "The question is, will Bush get the traction he needs on this issue? The proposals are complicated, but what emerges from the media is pretty simple: Both have plans now; Gore would spend more money."
One of those who lost coverage, Jacob Nykaza of Jermyn, near Scranton, told The Tribune: "We have to decide who has the better program. Either one should be better than nothing." His medications cost $35 a week.
Mr. Bush did something else here that could have a considerable impact among the large numbers of Roman Catholic voters in Scranton and Wilkes-Barre, most of whom strongly oppose abortion, as does Mr. Bush. There are no abortion clinics in Lackawanna County (Scranton) or Luzerne County (Wilkes-Barre). Although he said nothing publicly about abortion, Mr. Bush paid a well-publicized 40-minute call on Bishop James C. Timlin of Scranton.
The bishop, an outspoken opponent of abortion, said afterward that the visit had nothing to do with politics. But it certainly sent a message, especially since he had forbidden a planned appearance this year by Mr. Gore, an abortion rights supporter, at the Catholic Mercy Hospital here.
"This means the church has given its tacit approval to Bush," said Steve Corbett, a columnist for The News-Leader in Wilkes-Barre. "That's how people will interpret it. You're in the heart of anti-abortion country."
This area is not nearly as populous, of course, as Philadelphia or Pittsburgh. But it is closely balanced in partisan terms. Representative Donald L. Sherwood, whose district is centered on Scranton, won by only 515 votes in 1996, defeating Patrick Casey, a son of former Gov. Robert Casey and a brother of the state auditor, Robert Casey Jr. Mr. Casey, a Democrat, is running again, which should guarantee a big turnout and a close presidential contest in a district that President Clinton won in 1996 but lost to President George Bush in 1992.
"This election is about two things," said Prof. G. Terry Madonna of Millersville University. "Can Gore hold onto the socially conservative working-class Catholics in the hard-coal country in the northeast and the soft-coal country in the southwest, the ones you call Reagan Democrats and we call Casey Democrats? And can Bush hold onto the weakly leaning Republicans, fiscally conservative but not antigovernment, in the suburban counties around Philadelphia, especially the well-educated women?"
A poll taken for KDKA-TV in Pittsburgh on Sept. 5 and 6 and released on Thursday put Mr. Gore at 53 percent and Mr. Bush at 42 percent, with 4 percent opting for other candidates and 1 percent undecided. The survey questioned 800 likely voters, pushing them to state a preference even if they were unsure; the margin of sampling error was plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.
Professor Madonna, a pollster himself, said he thought Mr. Gore's lead was more like four to six percentage points. He said that because he did not believe the race had settled yet, he had delayed a new poll until later this month.
All the polls show big gender gaps. A poll taken for another western Pennsylvania television station, WPXI, indicates that Mr. Gore's entire margin comes from women. And they all show Mr. Bush fading in the pivotal suburban counties that surround Philadelphia -- Bucks, Montgomery, Delaware and Chester.
Neil Oxman, a Democratic campaign consultant in Philadelphia, said the Republican National Convention, held there, was the catalyst. Polls Mr. Oxman has taken for local and regional candidates, he said, show that Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore have consolidated 92 to 93 percent of their bases, which yields Mr. Gore a significant advantage, given the big Democratic registration edge.
Mr. Bush was doing nicely, he said, "and then bam! this yawning gender gap opens up, and you suddenly have Gore running strongly in the Main Line, especially among the moderate and upscale women there."
With that constituency, abortion is hurting Mr. Bush, Ms. Jamieson of the Annenberg School said. Although he mentioned the subject only briefly in his acceptance speech, she said, his position, the platform position and that of Mr. Cheney were all discussed at length in the local news media during the convention.
"Voters here know just where he stands," she said.
 
Battlegrounds
This is the first article in a series about four swing states that are likely to be critical to the outcome of the presidential race. Later articles will look at Ohio, Wisconsin and Michigan.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 12, 2000, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the importance of Pennsylvania in the presidential race misstated the name of the Wilkes-Barre newspaper in which a columnist, Steve Corbett, wrote about a meeting between George W. Bush and Bishop James C. Timlin of Scranton. It is The Times Leader, not The News-Leader.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In recent weeks, Pennsylvania has become a frequent campaign stop for Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush. Last Thursday Mr. Gore mingled with voters and their families in Simpson, near Scranton. Earlier in the week, Mr. Bush spoke at the Community Medical Center in Scranton. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times); (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 28)
 
Chart/Maps: "SNAPSHOT: Pennsylvania's Electorate"
Pennsylvania will play an important role in this year's presidential race. Here is a closer look at the state.
 
Maps follow demographics for Population density, 1999 (People per square mile), Median income, 1995, voting, Voters registered in 2000 As of April and Votes for President.
 
(Sources: Congressional Quarterly; U.S. Census Bureau; Pennsylvania Department of State)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (99%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE (60%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (99%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); POPULATION DECLINE (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (54%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (54%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DICK CHENEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



249 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14WC;Page 14;Column 1;Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: FOOTLIGHTS

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON

 BODY:

All the City, and a Stage
Fleetwood Stage and the city of New Rochelle are a happy mix, according to the company's founder and producing director, Lewis Arlt. "The move here was hugely successful," said Mr. Arlt, who will star in the group's production of Ira Levin's "Deathtrap," starting Sept. 21. "We're part of the spirit of the redevelopment of the city." 
 The theater company, which is beginning its eighth season, moved to the craggy grounds of Wildcliff, overlooking Long Island Sound, four years ago. The city, which owns the theater building and rents it to Fleetwood for a nominal fee, helps both officially and "as a group of individuals," Mr. Arlt said. That means the driveway gets plowed, and familiar faces lend panache to fund-raising events.
Fleetwood has also been a boon to Mr. Arlt's many faceted career. He has both acted and directed with the company, most recently appearing in "The Importance of Being Earnest," and directing "The Comedy of Errors." In "Deathtrap," a 1978 comedy-thriller directed by Nelson Sheeley, he will appear as a playwright prepared to kill for success. Mr. Arlt also played the role last winter at the Paper Mill Playhouse in New Jersey.
"It's a dream come true," he said of the chance to juggle jobs at Fleetwood. The actor-director's open secret is that he is also a writer, having provided 15 years of dialogue for soap operas like "Ryan's Hope," "General Hospital" and "Another World."
So what does he like to do best? "Acting is easier than directing and writing," he said. "Writing is a grind, all that pressure and responsibility. And the problem with directing for theater is that you can't make a living at it."
Fleetwood Stage is "hovering near the black," he said, and hopes to sell out its 105-seat theater with four main stage productions this season. Ticket information: (914) 654-8533.
 
Orchestra's Fund-Raising Awards
At 75, the Westchester Symphony Orchestra is by far the county's oldest orchestra. It has also changed more dramatically than other county orchestras, beginning as an avocational group and gradually climbing toward full professionalism (as measured by the level of both the playing and the pay scale).
"The musicians have consistently been getting raises and benefits," said Anthony Aibel, the group's 31-year-old conductor and music director. "I think within the next two or three years, we'll be up to union scale."
The orchestra has begun a new fund-raising strategy with its Bravissimo Awards, which are planned as yearly presentations to respected county residents in the arts, education and government. Awards call for a celebration, and the first such event -- to honor George S. Latimer, chairman of the County Board of Legislators, and Robert Merrill, the baritone -- will be a dinner party with cocktails on Sept. 24 from 5 to 8 p.m. at the Mamaroneck Beach and Yacht Club. Tickets range from $150 to $1,000, and proceeds will benefit the orchestra's children's and community outreach programs. Information: (914) 631-4313.
 
A Regional Theater From Purchase
Each year students in the drama division of Purchase College stage a series of plays that go largely unseen by the larger community.
Yet a senior in the 25-year-old film and theater division is just a short step away from the professional stage, and a relatively large number of recent Purchase graduates have gone on to major careers: Wesley Snipes, Stanley Tucci, Sherry Stringfield, Edie Falco and Parker Posey, to name a few.
Besides the freshness of the youthful casts, the plays -- which are often professionally directed -- benefit from the versatile theaters of the college's Performing Arts Center, which provide a malleable "black box" as well as the traditional proscenium stage.
This school year the division will offer seven plays to the public in a subscription series on Friday nights, which also includes several unannounced events. Subscribers at the $150 level are also entitled to break bread with famous alumni at three opening night dinners. (Subscribers at the $75 level just get to see the plays.) "The goal here is to create a regional theater," said Walter H. Liebman, a former trustee of the Purchase College Foundation, who came up with the idea for the series.
Mr. Liebman said the quality of the acting would be high, considering the rigorous screening of program applicants and the weeding-out process during four years of study. "It is a very good regional theater," he said. "There's nothing between here and New Haven that compares to it."
 ROBERTA HERSHENSON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 8, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A brief report in the Footlights column on Sept. 10 about Lewis Arlt, artistic director of Fleetwood Stage in New Rochelle, misstated his role in a production of "Deathtrap" last winter at the Paper Mill Playhouse in New Jersey. He played a supporting role; the lead character was played by Jonathan Hadary.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PAPER MILL PLAYHOUSE (55%); PAPER MILL PLAYHOUSE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAPER MILL PLAYHOUSE (55%); PAPER MILL PLAYHOUSE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); FUNDRAISING (88%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (76%); WRITERS (71%); MUSIC (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); COUNTIES (64%); PAPER & PACKAGING (57%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); 

PERSON: LEWIS ARLT (84%); WALTER H LIEBMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



250 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Page 50; Column 5; Sophisticated Traveler Magazine

LENGTH: 2836 words

HEADLINE: Death Valley: Present At The Creation

BYLINE: By Barbara Lazear Ascher; Barbara Lazear Ascher is the author of "Dancing in the Dark: Romance, Yearning and the Search for the Sublime" (HarperCollins).

 BODY:
Death Valley was Creation's trial run. The ideas were good. The raw materials were in place, though not necessarily in what we've come to regard as the "right" place.
Let there be iron oxides and copper and magnesium and mica to form alluvial fans and washes and canyons and mud hills. Let there be two great lights; the greater to scorch by day and the lesser to rule the night and inspire Ansel Adams. 
 Let there be winged fowl that may fly above the earth: road runners, ravens, hummingbirds. And creeping things and beasts of the earth: tarantulas, lizards, rattlesnakes and tortoises; bobcats, ringtails and mountain lions; foxes to feed on kangaroo rats, bighorn sheep to feed upon the herb-yielding seed.
Visiting geologists studying this 3.3-million-acre national park, some 120 miles northwest of Las Vegas and 285 miles northeast of Los Angeles, speak in billions. "Well, one billion years ago" -- this rock did that to that rock. To them it was just yesterday.
When you're here, it begins to feel that way. You're back at the beginning. Voluptuous alluvial fans, dips and rises of gravel dumped by flash floods over the last few million years resemble so many attempts to get form just right. You can practically hear Creation's thoughtful "Hmmmmm." It's that silent here.
Alex Cabana, the front desk manager at the Furnace Creek Inn, a 66-room resort opened in 1927 by the Pacific Coast Borax Company, claims, "It's the sound of your own heartbeat."
I check into this mission-style, adobe brick inn for a few days, to use it as a base as I hike into the desert to try to make sense out of a landscape that eludes casual categorization.
People have come to the desert for centuries for just this reason, to shed habits of thinking. To let their thoughts unfold to the very end. Mystics, prophets and seers, 60's acid droppers, New Millennium fast-lane dropouts. The extreme conditions (temperatures that plummet 40 degrees between a 113-degree morning to a chilly night) and the untouched-by-man vastness -- 95 percent of the park is wilderness -- of white sand dunes 50 feet high, golden cliffs, purple hills all serve to put us in our place.
At this moment, all I have in mind is relief for travel-weary joints. The pool, says Alex. The pool's water, fed by an underground spring, is a constant 85 degrees. "No chemicals. No chlorine."
There are 600 known springs in Death Valley, and the original settlers found them by following animal tracks. The spring feeding the Furnace Creek Inn's pool is so mineral rich that I float and bob on the surface.
But not for long. The sun is unyielding. I head for the shade of my cool, spare, whitewashed room, lie down on the bed and expect to evaporate.
I try to close my eyes against the view, a vast sweep of desert and distant, snowcapped Panamint mountains. A nap is imperative because in two hours the Inn's manager, Toni Jepson, and I are going to the opera. No long skirt required. No pashmina. No jewels. Actually, not much of an audience, because some of it's painted on the walls.
In 1967, 43-year-old Marta Becket, a dancer on a trip home to Manhattan from Hollywood, was waylaid by a flat tire in Death Valley Junction. It was then, she claims, while exploring the ghost town -- once owned by the Pacific Coast Borax Company -- where she sought shade, that she saw her dreams take shape.
Deserts do that. Chimeras. Mirages. Thoughts that begin to form patterns rather than bouncing back at you. Tricks of light that make the veil between form and illusion thin to the point of disappearing. So why not? Why not claim the borax company's music hall, built in 1907 and deserted 40 years later, when the borax mining boom came to an end.
Over the next few years, Marta restored and repaired structures, and then, just in case nobody ever came, she painted an audience on the walls. What does it matter that it's a 16th-century Spanish audience, complete with monks, nuns, ladies of the night and nobility? In Death Valley, time stretches with the horizon.
And so does credibility. After all, this is the place where a Chicago millionaire, Albert Johnson, built a Spanish-style mansion in 1915, and did not protest when his friend Walter Scott claimed to the world that it was his. A charismatic pretender, Scotty persuaded investors that he owned several lucrative gold mines in Death Valley. The mines were a fantasy, the mansion a fantasy given form, complete with towers, turrets and 14 fireplaces, forever to be known as "Scotty's Castle."
So, no one thought much about a dancer performing for a painted audience. But tonight is looking busier than those early days, in the living, breathing sense of busy, including a group of teenagers on a school trip from the Fresno Valley. Tonight, 76-year-old Marta will perform her original work "The Doll Maker," in one act, three scenes, "with incidental music by Johann Strauss."
Toni and I drop our $10 admission charge into a gold-painted coffee can held by Marta's boyfriend of 17 years, Tom Willett. A man in his 70's, he sports 60's-style hair and clothes and affects a certain 60's defiant insouciance. I ask if tonight looks like a full house. "Yup, 120, that's a full house." We take our seats (1940's movie theater seats) next to a group I recognize from the Inn. Chances are that the others are campers, unless the curious have driven from the nearest civilization, the town of Pahrump, some 60 miles away.
The lights, bare bulbs shielded by five-pound coffee cans, dim. The pink curtain, painted by Marta, parts and there she stands. Dressed as a doll and on point. Irony is washed out in the desert. There's not enough energy for the extras. This is not a play on itself. This is the play. And the performer takes it seriously as she delivers her aria in a high, frail voice punctuated by the braying burros she keeps in a corral out back.
An hour later, at the show's conclusion, I go to the front desk where one can rent a room for the night. "Honey, did ya like the show?" the clerk wants to know. I assure her that I did and ask if I might see a room. "Sweetheart, just walk along out there and somebody'll let you into their room."
Sure enough. A man and a woman standing on the threshold of an open door, invite me to have a look. "If you can believe it," says the husband of the pair.
The double bed's mattress folds in the middle like a wing. The bathroom tiles are few and far between. But Marta has painted a pre-Raphaelite scene of exuberant romance above the missing headboard. "She's a good painter," I offer. Wife: "It's a nice room. Very comfortable. I've seen worse." Husband: "Well, I haven't." Wife: "Better than our tent." Husband: "Well, then you sleep here. I'm goin' to the tent."
I ease my way through the growing tension and into the wide expanse of night air. Christmas tree lights in red, yellow and green illuminate the few mesquite bushes around the property. Sirius and Procyon overhead outshine them. And though there is no moon tonight, the stretches of white sand reflect all available light, as though the source is within them. The landscape undulates like a sea.
If you find yourself in Death Valley and prefer to sleep without burros for neighbors, you have a choice of three National Park Service concessions. Furnace Creek Inn is the most luxurious. Family-oriented Furnace Creek Ranch is more casual (so casual that coyote pups fetch your ball should you care for a game of golf on the world's lowest course, 214 feet below sea level). And Stovepipe Wells, which is rudimentary to the point of high camp.
I dine at Stovepipe Wells the following evening and am swept back to the 50's and the first road trip my family took cross-country. It was a 50's family thing: load the kids and a drooling dog into a Studebaker sedan and go see "this great land of ours." Those same families seem to have been frozen in time because here we all are, on Naugahyde seats in a large paneled dining room, dining at 5:30 on Jell-O-and-marshmallow salad.
My pre-moonlight horseback ride feast. The National Park Service and Furnace Creek Ranch run a horse program led by Robin and Mark Berry, who have the horses saddled and standing in perfect formation as five of us gather in the corral.
"Butt in the saddle, back straight, head high," Robin advises. She has the no-nonsense self-confidence of one who has grown up with horses and knows what makes them tick.
"And don't let them stop to eat mesquite," Mark adds. "If you do, you'll be out there all night."
Mark cuts such a striking figure, a horse whisperer with a black eye patch, that I wonder if he's in disguise to make the unsuspecting Easterner swoon. His assistant, James, is also one of those Cowboys-Are-My-Weakness kinds of cowboy. He wears a lavender bandanna around his neck. It matches his eyes. A long, brown ponytail hangs out the back of his Stetson.
He helps me mount my horse and holds my knee while adjusting the stirrups. Oh, my. "How's that?" he asks, easing my foot into the stirrup. I want to say, "Hmm, not quite right." Liar.
We head out after James, who, mounted, makes a large, Westward-Ho gesture. We pull bandannas over our noses as the horses kick up the dust. You can see this from miles away. It looks like a whirlwind when, from a distance, you spot the spirals of heat and sand kicked up by a herd of wild horses or riders such as ourselves.
We ride beneath a navy blue sky as darkness moves across the land and begins to blur the outlines of mesquite and sage. Then Mars pops out like a celestial jack-in-the-box. Then Jupiter and Saturn. The Big Dipper dips down, and soon the Funeral Mountain peaks take on a glow like the nimbus in Northern Renaissance paintings. Then, pop! There it is! The goose has laid the golden egg. Upside down. In slow motion.
"Wow! The moon!" the kid behind me shrieks. "Yowks!" I hear myself echo. We're the first people on earth seeing the first moon for the first time.
A kinship with those ancients is strongly felt in a landscape that looks much as it did when they inhabited it. "You know, there are petroglyphs here that show a man on a horse," whispers Dave Woodruff, my waiter at breakfast the next morning.
Dave moved here to experience the timelessness. It's a passion that makes people come and stay. A passion for silence, for vistas that change with every slight slant of light. Because you are afloat in a sandy wash of time, you feel weightless. You can travel a billion years in a minute. As though to accentuate that point, the moonlight ride featured falling stars. Stars too tired to stay up after billions of years. Stars that had died long before we saw them fall.
Dave also whispers that if I'm willing to walk for six hours, I'll come to a rock where the forty-niners engraved their names before moving on or giving up the ghost. Top secret. "You'll recognize the names." Just about everybody here lives with the ghosts of these forty-niners who came through looking for a shortcut to the California gold fields. It feels like yesterday to today's inhabitants. They're well versed in William Lewis Manley's 250-mile trek over mountain and desert in search of the stranded members of the Bennet party. They speak of Julia, a baby who died soon after birth to a mother who had suffered dehydration and starvation as the group frantically circled the desert, seeking a way out. They speak of these people as though I could pick up the phone and request an interview if I had any further questions.
Dave draws me a map on his order pad. "You go exactly 8.1 miles down this road that's closed. You got four-wheel drive and high clearance?" I tell him I had rented a Volvo C70, not realizing I was going to be needing a Humvee. "That's fine. They test-drove that car here. You know, above sea level, below sea level, over boulders. You'll be fine. Go slow. Take plenty of water. At 8.1 miles get out and walk this way."
His map becomes topographical. Plateaus, valleys, canyons. If I follow his lines, I'll come to the petroglyphs.
I pack a backpack with a compass and a whistle (sound travels for miles, so there's always the chance that if I get lost out there, someone 20 miles away, the distance I'm traveling from the nearest ear, might hear me). Half a gallon of water, the amount recommended if you're heading into the desert, a wide-brimmed hat against the sun and hiking boots against any surprises.
I spend the day in fruitless search. And yet, I'm discovering that out here, the plans you make have little to do with the vistas you'll see.
There is no predicting in Death Valley. You think that there's nothing but sand before you, then you gain slight elevation and you're gazing out over a mesquite-green valley leading to snowcapped mountains. This is the view that stops me in my tracks, makes me lower my pack to the ground and myself to a flat rock. I begin to understand why the Old Testament Prophets headed to the desert. It's a place of visions. The now-you-see-it, now-you-don't of miracle.
When I return to the Inn, a message from Mark Berry invites me to sign on as a volunteer with the Park Service, and accompany him into a desolate canyon to pick up Nathan Niemi, a geologist who's been camping there while mapping uncharted territory. We'll drive the horses an hour into the desert, then ride them for three hours each way.
We meet at 6 a.m. and head off with two pack mules and an extra horse for Nathan. It's spring and the poppy-yellow globemallow pushes through any available space between rocks. Vibrant pink blossoms adorn spiny beaver-tail cactus. Finches sing sweetly in the sagebrush and blue-gray gnatcatchers weave a demitasse-shaped nest between branches of an indigo bush.
After half an hour of climbing, we look behind and observe that the truck and trailer have taken on the diminutive, toylike quality of objects seen from an airplane. The canyon pulls us forward like an updraft.
Mark lets me take the lead. "See if you can find the way." I begin to feel cocky until he warns, "Don't get so close to that lip" of the three-foot-wide ledge I'm crossing. I look over the side. Oh, yes. Three hundred feet straight down in either direction. I straighten my back into a posture that I hope bespeaks great courage. I do want to be invited back.
After an hour in the lead, I spot the waving gesture of a man clearly eager to see us. A week alone with rocks and snakes and black widows and a moon so bright that he couldn't sleep fuel his enthusiasm. Mark is still out of sight; Nathan sees me alone and looks puzzled.
"I saw your flares," I announce, "and I have come to rescue you."
Take a woman out of Manhattan. Put her in the desert with no company but a horse and a cowboy, and she's bound to put on airs.
 
OASES
The entrance fee for DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK, $10 for noncommercial vehicles, is payable at ranger stations at Furnace Creek, Stovepipe Wells, Grapevine or Beatty. Unless otherwise noted, all accommodations and attractions are open all year.
The FURNACE CREEK VISITOR CENTER (telephone: 760-786-2331), open daily from 8 to 6, houses exhibitions on the area's natural, cultural and economic history, as well as a bookstore operated by the Death Valley Natural History Association.
FURNACE CREEK INN (760-786-2345; fax: 760-786-2423) has 66 air-conditioned rooms; a double is $260 to $290, depending on season. Amenities include a spring-fed swimming pool and tennis courts. The dining room offers a Continental menu with California accents; dinner for two is about $60, and a bottle of wine costs an average of $30 to $50.
FURNACE CREEK RANCH (760-786-2345; fax: 760-786-2514) has 224 rooms; a double costs $124 or $129, depending on season. In addition to a spring-fed pool and tennis courts, there are an 18-hole golf course and stables for riders. Dining options include the WRANGLER STEAKHOUSE, where dinner for two is about $50; add $30 to $50 for wine.
STOVEPIPE WELLS VILLAGE (760-786-2387; fax: 760-786-2389) has 83 rooms, all of which cost $84 (although not all have telephones and television sets). There is a pool and a restaurant that serves American comfort food of the meatloaf and mashed potatoes variety; about $40 for two, with wine adding an average of $25 a bottle.
Marta Becket's AMARGOSA OPERA HOUSE (760-852-4441; fax: 760-852-4138) is in Death Valley Junction, at the intersection of Routes 127 and 190. Performances are scheduled on Monday and Saturday in November, February, March and April, and on Saturday only in October, December and January through the middle of May. Tickets are $10, and reservations are recommended. The hotel has 12 rooms, each with bath or shower and all with air-conditioning; rates for a double are $55, October to mid-May; $45 the rest of the year.
SCOTTY'S CASTLE (760-786-2392) is open daily for tours conducted by the National Park Service. The tours, which cost $8, last for 50 minutes to an hour; the earliest is at 9 a.m., the last at 5 p.m.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left: A lone hiker near Zabriskie Point. Below, Left: Classic two-lane blacktop south of Furnace Creek. Below: Sand dunes form a shifting landscape around Stovepipe Wells.; Above: A life lived for art. Marta Becket in rehearsal at her own opera house. Left: The Furnace Creek Inn, opened in 1927, features a spring-fed swimming pool.; On horseback by moonlight: "We ride beneath a navy blue sky as darkness moves across the land and begins to blur the outlines of mesquite and sage." (Macduff Everton)
 
Map

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MOJAVE DESERT (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC COAST LIGHTING (54%); PACIFIC COAST PRODUCERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MOJAVE DESERT (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RIVERS (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (88%); MOUNTAINS (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (74%); WILD CATS (74%); RUNNING (73%); RODENTS (69%); MILLENNIUM (67%); CHLORINE (60%); 

PERSON: MARTA BECKET (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



251 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28; Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Sins of the Marketplace

BYLINE: By John T. Noonan Jr.; John T. Noonan Jr.'s most recent book is "The Lustre of Our Country: The American Experience of Religious Freedom."

 BODY:

 Who Are We?
 Critical Reflections and Hopeful Possibilities.
 By Jean Bethke Elshtain.
 178 pp. Grand Rapids, Mich.:
 William+B.+Eerdmans Publishing Company. $20. 
 Dietrich Bonhoeffer and John Paul II are her "primary interlocutors." Pride and Sloth are the categories in which she arranges the flaws of contemporary culture. She speaks from a Lutheran tradition now effecting a rapprochement with the older church from which it has been divided. For this Christian moralist, sin distorts individual and communal lives, hope is a necessary virtue, and God is not an icon or a mirage but a presence.
Jean Bethke Elshtain is the Rockefeller professor of social and political ethics at the University of Chicago. Unsurprisingly -- to use one of her favored adverbs -- she has found her academic home not in the departments of sociology or political science but in the school of divinity. At Chicago, where the methodologies of economics have threatened to swallow other approaches to life, theologians are still hospitable to human concerns not expressible in cash.
Commodification! It appears, as Elshtain observes in "Who Are We?," to be a visible destroyer of values that should not be for sale or measured in monetary terms. She cites the advertisements that have run in college newspapers throughout the country offering $25,000, $50,000, (and now) $100,000 for the ova of young women with high admission scores, athletic ability and, in some instances, blue eyes and blond hair. Stanford, to take a campus I know, has not forbidden such advertising; after all, a woman could pay much of her college tuition in this way. What is bought and sold, however, is closely linked with personal identity, with motherhood, with interpersonal love. Unsurprisingly in this culture, a television show gains millions of viewers and is reported on the front page of The New York Times when the show presents 50 women wanting to marry a man of whom they know nothing except that his assets presumably exceeded $1,999,999. To extend Elshtain's argument, what Sloth to seek a lifelong partnership this way.
In plenty of cultures, to be sure, and in many times and places, men and women have married for money or used money to win a partner in procreation. The critic of our commodifying culture is not identifying an unknown vice but a new openness, a new thoroughgoingness, a new hardness in bartering what should not be sold. The old moralists denounced the sin of simony as the attempt to buy or sell the Holy Spirit; they extended the sin to the sale of justice, another value they thought could not be commodified. No one -- not even the most ruthless of economists -- has suggested that we auction justice. Is it any better that we auction human ova or human love?
As we move into a world of new technologies, the cloning of human beings has become a possibility. Warning voices have been raised; Elshtain endorses the arguments of the bioethicist Leon Kass against even embarking on this course. Certainly the strongest argument is that in the present culture, clones would be commodified. A competitive market in the production and sale of clones -- varieties designed and sold for a variety of purposes -- poses a future in which slavery would return in subtler guise.
Feminists have protested the obscene television display of the women willing to marry for $2 million. Left and liberal critics have lamented the push of the market into every sphere from education to prisons. Wittily critiquing commodification, Elshtain will receive a sympathetic hearing. On other aspects of the dominant culture, like abortion and assisted suicide, she will encounter resistance. Believers are divided as to the moral acceptability of such practices. Elshtain, however, argues that the acceptance of these forms of human-inflicted death relates to a sense of human autonomy that accords no rights to God. Here's where Pride takes its lumps. Outside traditional religions, the very notions that a human being has been created by God, has a destiny beyond this life that is directed to God and has responsibilities to God are atrophied, neglected, unknown or disbelieved. Belief in the theistic propositions does no more than open the mind to the possibility of limits to human freedom. Without them, the views thoughtfully espoused by Elshtain will not make sense to many. On other subjects, notably contraception and celibacy, where believers are even more divided among themselves, Elshtain is prudently silent.
Many believers and unbelievers come together again on capital punishment -- believers because they have come to see it as another human invasion of the Creator's power, unbelievers because they see it as an irredeemable extinction of life. So limited in practice as to be of little more than symbolic significance (except for those executed), the death penalty is another feature of our culture scrutinized with critical concern by Elshtain.
I find it difficult to say that one culture, globally considered, is worse than another. We don't have the tools to make the measurement. Until well into the 19th century, human slavery was legally and morally accepted in substantial parts of the world. Up until the middle of this century, racism was legally and morally accepted in this country and in many parts of the world. Discrimination determined by gender is only now being dismantled. Every culture to the moralist is distinguished not only by Pride and Sloth but by the five other deadly sins, Anger, Avarice, Envy, Gluttony and Lust; and the deadly sins don't exhaust the possibilities of going wrong. What distinguishes a culture is the particular forms the vices take.
Sounding at the end the note of hope, Elshtain finds it running like a submerged stream in some modern films, including "Titanic," and some modern literature, like the poetry and prose of Czeslaw Milosz, a survivor of Nazi occupation and Communist domination. In his celebration of human living, Elshtain, a devoted grandmother, sees "the fragility and miracle of the quotidian." The title of the book asks a question, to which the book implicitly responds. We are those who make this culture of atheism and faith, cash bottom lines and virtues beyond price, cynicism and aspiration. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); 

CITY: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); WOMEN (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); TUITION FEES (74%); ETHICS (70%); CLONING (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); HUMAN CLONING (67%); 

PERSON: POPE JOHN PAUL II (73%); SIR GEORGE YOUNG (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000



252 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: New Economy;
When the Internet businesses shake, the next domino is the companies that provide them with consulting services.

BYLINE: By Susan Stellin 

 BODY:
IN the current climate for technology stocks, it is not surprising that the troubles plaguing other sectors of the industry have now fallen on the consulting companies that help businesses build and manage their Internet operations. What is remarkable, though, is how quickly the pall has descended.
Over the last two weeks, several leading Internet consulting companies have announced negative news, starting a downturn in much of the sector. Viant and iXL Enterprises, which had previously been profitable, both announced they would post a loss for the third quarter, with revenue falling short of the record results each had in the second quarter. 
 Meanwhile, Organic announced smaller-than-anticipated revenue growth and iXL Enterprises said it would lay off several hundred employees.
This reversal in a sector previously characterized by double-digit revenue growth each quarter sent share prices tumbling, with the sector down overall 15 percent since Aug. 29. Although the spill can primarily be attributed to the misfortunes of the consulting companies' dot-com clients, the pace of the change also says that an industry that operates on the vaunted 24/7 pace can also implode at Internet speed.
To be sure, the backlash in the services sector was foreshadowed in late June, when Banc of America Securities downgraded the consulting firm Scient from "buy" to a "market performer" after two of Scient's clients filed for bankruptcy. The drop showed that Scient, based in San Francisco, and its competitors were vulnerable to the shifting fortunes of their dot-com clients. Scient's stock has fallen to $27, down from a 52-week high of $133.75 in March.
But the sector's real trouble became evident late last month when the bad news really began piling up. On Aug. 31, Viant, a previously profitable Internet consulting company in Boston, announced that it would post a loss for the third quarter and that revenue would be as much as 15 percent below its second-quarter sales of $38.5 million.
A day later, Atlanta-based iXL Enterprises issued a similar warning, predicting a loss in the third quarter and revenue as much as 20 percent below the $119.2 million revenue of the second quarter.
IXL has since announced a management overhaul and plans to lay off 350 employees.
And then San Francisco-based Organic Inc. announced last Wednesday that because of smaller-than-expected anticipated revenue growth, the company would not reach its goal of profitability in the third quarter -- although Organic does expect to increase revenue 5 percent over its $37.2 million in the second quarter.
The market's reaction to these announcements was unforgiving. Viant's stock closed on Friday at $7.53, down from a 52-week high of $63.56. iXL closed at $6.44, down from a high of $58.75, and Organic dropped to $4.53, from its 52-week high of $60.
Mark Wolfenberger, senior information technology services analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston, said analysts had downgraded the stocks of about a third of the Internet consulting companies they cover, anticipating a period of retrenchment and ultimately, consolidation. Among the companies that have been downgraded by Credit Suisse are Viant, Rare Medium, Modem Media, Cambridge Technology Partners and iGate.
"The opinion on the group in the past five days has gone from optimistically positive to downright negative," Mr. Wolfenberger said in an interview last Thursday.
The main reason for the gloomy outlook is a shift in the demand for the services these companies provide. While the consulting companies feasted on business from cash-rich start-ups and the brick-and-mortar companies that tried to keep pace, the dot-com shakeout has meant even old-economy companies feel less urgency to develop their Internet strategies.
"I think that the consulting companies got the sense that life was going to continue in the passing lane, traveling at 85 miles an hour," Mr. Wolfenberger said. "We've moved from 85 miles an hour back into the right-hand lane at 60 miles per hour."
Mr. Wolfenberger underscored that there was still plenty of demand for Internet consulting services. Forrester Research, for example, estimates the United States market for e-commerce services will reach $64.8 billion by 2003, up from an estimated $19.6 billion this year.
But as consulting firms shift their focus from working primarily with start-ups to serving more traditional clients, they need to be able to handle projects far more complex than merely getting first-time Web sites up and running. The tougher tasks include integrating a company's Web site with its existing systems, like inventory management software or customer databases. Such projects tend to require more complicated technology, as well as longer sales cycles.
Stephen Mucchetti, president and chief operating officer of Scient, which had 60 active clients as of last quarter, said that although the company was still working with venture-backed start-ups, it was increasingly focusing on traditional corporations, including AT&T, Chase Manhattan and the cosmetics retailer Sephora.
"The Internet-driven side of this is gone now," he said. "The next phase is this integrated virtual and physical business."
In that respect, Internet services firms like Scient and Viant may be more vulnerable to competition from seasoned information-technology consultants like I.B.M. Services, Deloitte Consulting and KPMG Consulting, which already have relationships with many of the world's biggest companies and have been ramping up their Internet services to compete with the newer players.
Bob Gett, the chief executive of Viant, said that even though his company had been expecting a shift in the market, it came so suddenly that Viant had not had time to react to the changing nature of the demand.
"I think what caught everybody by surprise is the rate at which it happened," he said. "Welcome to the new economy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541519 OTHER COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES (62%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (62%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIC INC (62%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CONSULTANTS INTERNET & WWW (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); 

PERSON: STELLIN, SUSAN MARK WOLFENBERGER (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000



253 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 7; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1923 words

HEADLINE: 2000 SYDNEY GAMES;
Running for Her Country, Her People, Herself

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia

 BODY:
The biggest Olympic stadium in history rises up all around you at Homebush Bay: 110,000 seats amid gentle sea breezes that can become gusts in the time it takes for a sprinter to lean forward and plant his splayed fingers and great expectations behind a thin white line.
Cathy Freeman, one of Australia's most prominent athletes and its most prominent Aborigine, already knows the place well. She came here shortly after the stadium was finished in February 1999 with Nick Bideau, who was formerly her manager, boyfriend and mentor. Bideau had already researched on which part of the new track the women's 400-meter race would begin at the Summer Olympics. 
 "One lap as fast as you can," Bideau remembers saying, before setting her loose on a first training run at Homebush Bay. "Right now there is nobody here, and when you come back there will be hundreds of cameras, tens of thousands of people but it won't change what you've got to do, and that's start here and finish here."
Off Freeman went in the silence, her long legs gobbling up meters of track and her heels nearly touching her buttocks at the end of each enormous and beautifully balanced stride. She has been running fast enough to win medals and generate headlines since she was 11 and newspaper reporters in her hometown of Mackay dubbed her "wonder girl." A year before that, her stepfather Bruce Barber, a white railway guard with no track and field experience, sat on a log and watched her train and decided that she looked like a future Olympian.
"That was the first time I ever heard anybody say to me that I could do it," Freeman said.
She has now done it twice: first in 1992, when she failed to advance past the second round of the 400, and again in 1996, when she advanced past everyone except her much taller French measuring stick, Marie-Jose Perec, and ended up with the silver medal in Atlanta.
But on the evening of Sept. 25, the date of the 400 final in Sydney, she will be -- barring injury -- the favorite: both on paper and in the hearts and minds of the Australian fans whose interest in and connection with Freeman made this the first session of track and field to sell out. Freeman has not lost a 400 in more than two years. She has won the last two world championships in the event, and she recorded the fastest time since 1998 last month in Monaco: 49.48 seconds.
If she holds firm -- despite the pressure, despite the specter of the diminished but potentially still-dangerous Perec, and despite some painful recent distractions -- Freeman will become the first Aboriginal athlete to win an individual Olympic gold medal. And if she wins, she plans to reprise the victory celebration that helped make her reputation here by carrying both the Australian flag and the Aboriginal flag: just as she did after striking gold at the Commonwealth Games in 1994 and at the world championships in 1997.
"It's going to be a special time," she said recently, a touch of weariness in her voice. "A once-in-a-lifetime experience, but you know what? It's just running. That's my coping strategy."
 
A Romance Ends, a Business Thrives
Freeman, 27, has had much to cope with recently: first and foremost her acrimonious and litigious professional split in May with Bideau, the former Melbourne sports journalist and track and field specialist who wrote about Freeman's early exploits and began dating her in 1990 when he was 30 and she was 17.
It was Bideau who persuaded Freeman to move far south to Melbourne from Brisbane, the capital of the Australian state of Queensland in northeastern Australia.
It was Bideau, who in Pygmalionesque fashion, took control of her training, diet and career and helped her develop from a raw talent into a champion.
Even after their romance ended in November 1996, he remained her manager for the next three and a half years. Both developed new relationships. Bideau became romantically involved with Sonia O'Sullivan, the Irish middle-distance runner and former world 5,000-meter champion. Their daughter, Ciara, was born in July last year.
Two months later, Freeman married the American Sandy Bodecker, an executive with Nike, which happens to be her biggest sponsor. The wedding was less than a month after the world championships in Seville, Spain, where Freeman defended her 400 title and where Bodecker and Bideau argued publicly -- not for the first time -- about Freeman's pre-Olympic plans.
According to an authorized 1999 biography of Freeman, "A Journey Just Begun," Freeman had to intervene to put an end to that dispute. But while outsiders shook their heads in wonder at the continued intermingling of fractured relationships and shining goals, Freeman and Bideau continued working together under the umbrella of the Melbourne International Track Club, which Bideau and his business partner Peter Jess formed in the wake of Freeman's success.
"We're trying to do a job that we know is bigger than both of us," Bideau said in February when asked how they managed to keep working together. "What we're trying to achieve has a much more far-reaching effect than anything we can possibly do in our lives. If we can do that working together, and I can help her win it, that will affect so many people and will be remembered."
That same day in Melbourne, Freeman said, "It was important for me to have Nick stay part of my sports group because he is so passionate. He's passionate about track and field and very good at understanding the sport and athletes and their needs."
But her words and actions were diverging. Later that month, Freeman reportedly offered Bideau a lump-sum settlement as part of a separation offer, one Bideau reportedly refused as far too low. In May, Freeman announced that she was severing ties with Bideau and the Melbourne track club, although she did retain the coach Peter Fortune, who had begun working with her at Bideau's suggestion in 1991.
In June, Bideau and Jess retaliated by issuing a writ in the Victorian Supreme Court in Australia citing breach of contract and seeking damages on behalf of the Melbourne International Track Club and an injunction against anyone else managing Freeman. After a preliminary hearing, the two parties decided to postpone further action until after the Olympics in an attempt not to further disturb Freeman's preparations for the Games.
Neither Freeman nor Bideau responded to interview requests last month to discuss the developments, but Freeman did say: "I thought it was time to take a bit of control. I wanted to be in a position where I could do things for myself. From the time I was young, things were done for me, and I just let people do it for me. I didn't know anything different."
According to Fortune, the coach who is the link between a successful past and an uncertain future: "The things that have happened surprised me, but not totally. There are personal issues, but I've just been impressed with the way she's picked it up and run with it. Things are certainly different now. She's much more self-determining. I think her motivation and focus have never been better.
"She's working on a similar program to what she has done in the past, but the difference this year is that she's taking much more of a role in it herself, not so much in devising the program but in executing it and training at a high level. She's doing it without being in any way pushed, which maybe in the past was not the case."
But then, if Freeman cannot generate self-motivation with her own nation preparing to play host to the Games for the first time in 44 years, when will she ever be a self-starter?
"Everybody's getting nervous; I'm getting nervous; I have to control my emotions," she said shortly before leaving her training base in Britain and returning to Australia after spending three months abroad, including a five-week stop at U.C.L.A. with the American coach John Smith and his group of feisty and talented sprinters.
 
A Runner, an Australian, an Aborigine
Freeman left Australia to avoid the crush of pre-Olympic attention and to find the best competition available. Australians have been watching her closely since she was 16, when, with only one year of serious training behind her, she ran a leg in the gold-medal-winning 4 x 100 relay at the 1990 Commonwealth Games. By 1997, a street had been named for her in Mackay and she had become, according to some national polls, the most admired woman in the country.
But this month, the whole world will be watching her closely, and outsiders will be intrigued for much the same reason Australians were first intrigued: because of her "Aboriginality." Indigenous Australians, who represent approximately 1 percent of Australia's population of 19 million, remain a distinctly underprivileged minority here, with markedly shorter life spans and markedly higher rates of child mortality, unemployment, alcoholism and criminality.
The tattoo on Freeman's right shoulder might read "Acosda I'm free," but her family has not escaped unscathed.
Her father, Norman, was an accomplished rugby league player in North Queensland who later learned that he had diabetes, developed a drinking problem and separated from Freeman's mother in 1978 when Freeman was 5. He died at 53. Freeman's older sister Anne-Marie was born with cerebral palsy, spent most of her life in an institution and died of an acute asthma attack at 24.
Freeman's maternal grandmother, Alice Mero, was one of thousands of Aboriginal children taken from their parents by Australian authorities in the first 60 years of the 20th century and handed over to foster parents or missions in an attempt to increase their chances of assimilating into mainstream Australian society. Aboriginal leaders have been pressing the current government for an apology for the treatment of what is now known in Australia as "the stolen generation."
But the conservative government has refused, limiting itself to an expression of regret and sparking outrage in some segments of the Aboriginal community. Though seldom hesitant to discuss the plight of fellow Aborigines, Freeman has customarily been measured in her criticism, and she made it clear this year that she had no intention of heeding increasingly faint calls for an Olympic boycott or of using her celebrity as a political lever.
She has indicated that she is interested in a career in politics when her athletic career finishes.
"The time will come when I can be more instrumental in politics and national affairs, but not now," she said. "I think I'm playing a big part just doing what I'm doing on the track."
 
This Time, Peaking on Her Own
Freeman has never been a rock-steady performer, her weight and desire fluctuating with her moods. But she has made a habit of peaking for major events. She ran the fastest time of her career and sixth-fastest in history -- 48.63 seconds -- in the last Olympic final. The difference in Sydney is that Bideau will no longer be there to help her peak; no longer there to harken back to the hard work gone by with the words, "One lap as fast as you can."
This time, it will be up to Freeman, and if she can do it amid the din, she knows she will feel a great deal more emotion than she felt after defending her world title last year and slumping wearily to the track without bothering with a victory lap as if already feeling the weight of a nation's Olympic expectations.
"I was already thinking about Sydney," she said. "A world title gold medal is not my dream. An Olympic gold medal is."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The 400-meter runner Cathy Freeman has been trying to train out of the spotlight. "Everybody's getting nervous; I'm getting nervous," said Freeman, shown running on Stradbroke Island in Queensland. (Nick Wilson/Allsport); Two flags, Australian and Aboriginal, for Freeman in 1997. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (96%); UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (56%); 

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (96%); UNITED STATES (56%); QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (56%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); RUNNING (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); TRACK & FIELD (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); STEPPARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CATHY FREEMAN (95%); NICK BIDEAU (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000



254 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1872 words

HEADLINE: Daily News Opens a New Front in the Tabloid War;
Free Paper Raises Stakes in Battle With Post

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER with JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
Despite its Texas-size sense of its own primacy in almost everything, New York City in recent years has not been the site of the country's bloodiest newspaper war. That title went to Denver, where rival papers tried to starve each other into submission by offering themselves for a penny a day.
Penny, schmenny. Tomorrow, New York gets a new afternoon newspaper for nothing, courtesy of The Daily News. (The News itself still costs 50 cents.) After The News announced its plans for the free Daily News Express, The New York Post quickly cut its newsstand price to 25 cents from 50 cents within the city limits. If red ink trickled through the streets of Denver, it threatens to course through the streets of Manhattan. 
 What does it mean? Everyone in the business has his own take. But most agree that the sudden escalation of New York's long-running tabloid war makes the perennially uncertain newspaper landscape even more uncertain. A new weapon, the free daily afternoon newspaper, hurts The Post. The Post, however, has shown that it knows how to undercut The News. Four years ago, it introduced a cut-rate Sunday newspaper, forcing The News to cut its newsstand price; even so, in less than a year, circulation of The News's most valuable edition dropped more than 100,000 copies.
Leonard N. Stern, who, as the owner of The Village Voice, turned the paid alternative weekly into a free newspaper and then sold it at a significant profit, sees the latest developments in stark terms. "The Daily News is the dominant tabloid of the city, and it is now under challenge for its life," he said. Mr. Stern, chairman of the privately held Hartz Group, added: "This is it. I believe the battle has been joined. When it's over, things are not going to look the way they do today."
Mr. Stern's views are stark, but he is not alone. Even more moderate observers do not disagree about the intensity of the current battle, or the willingness of the combatants to incur short- or medium-term losses in pursuit of long-term dominance. John Morton, a newspaper industry analyst, observed, "When you have two papers, neither of which is making money, going at it in this fashion, what it promises to do is increase the losses for both of them." He added that Rupert Murdoch, chairman of The Post's parent, the News Corporation, and Mortimer B. Zuckerman, co-owner of The News, have each demonstrated a determination to keep control of a New York newspaper. "It's not about money," he said. "It's about image and being the publisher of a major newspaper in the world's most important city."
So The News and The Post are willingly incurring extra economic pain at a time when there is already pain enough: the price of newsprint, the biggest nonlabor cost for any newspaper, is rising steeply in a market tighter than at any time in the last four years.
For The News, there is also the question of fighting a two-front war: Newsday, the Long Island newspaper, is beginning a circulation comeback in Queens after years of decline; its editor, Anthony Marro, said he planned to send in 15 people next year to strengthen a Queens-based editorial staff that now numbers about 45. (Newsday is now owned by the Tribune Company, the former owner of The Daily News.)
Indeed, to hear News executives tell it, you would not know that there was anything but fun and profit ahead. Their blithe willingness to flout received wisdom (newspapers that cost nothing are worth nothing to advertisers) has provoked guarded enthusiasm from both media analysts and advertisers. About 75,000 copies of Express will be distributed at 85 commuter hubs: bridges, tunnels, bus terminals and subway and train stations. It can carry news that breaks as late as noon, executives say.
Robert J. Broadwater, managing director of the media-centric investment bank Veronis, Suhler & Associates, is impressed. "I don't know if it will work for The News or anybody, but it's intriguing as all get-out," he said. "In the current market for news and information and entertainment, it's increasingly difficult to get and hold a paying subscriber or reader. Circulation is the biggest challenge."
Esther Eaton, advertising director at Seaman Furniture, one of The News's major advertisers, called Express "a great vehicle," adding, "There's difference between a penny-saver type vehicle and a real newspaper."
Les Goodstein, chief operating officer of The News, said executives at The News conceived the idea when they heard that Metro, a Swedish-owned free newspaper, would be distributed to Philadelphia commuters in cooperation with the city's transit authority. "We are taking the concept and refining it to fit the needs of the New York area," he said. And maybe trying to discourage the executives of Metro's parent company, the Modern Times Group, from thinking about a move to New York. Earlier this year, Modern Times executives discussed a possible collaboration with The Post, but those talks were not productive, according to an executive involved in the talks.
Express, as designed, will split its 40 pages roughly equally between advertising and editorial material: pictures, listings and short, 300-word articles, emphasizing topics like business, entertainment and sports. In Europe, such free dailies began to win audiences more than two decades ago. But almost all were morning publications -- and New Yorkers can choose from The Post, The News, The New York Times and Newsday in the morning.
"The gaping hole," Mr. Goodstein said, "was in the afternoon."
The high-profile introduction is generating guarded excitement among advertisers, who have been less than enthusiastic about reader erosion. The News -- which a decade ago had a circulation of more than a million -- is struggling to keep its circulation figure above 700,000 for the six-month period ending Sept. 30.
In fact, erosion of New York City circulation has affected not just The News but The New York Times as well. The Post has bucked this trend the last few years but has lost some of its core Manhattan readership. Others who remain loyal to The Post have known it since it was an afternoon newspaper itself -- and save it for the train or bus ride home. Tomorrow, these readers of The Post will be offered a free copy of Express by a novel crew of hawkers, including an actress, an opera singer and a handful of leggy cheerleaders.
If The News wants to grab The Post's readers, it would not mind slicing into Newsday's advertising revenue. Last year, Newsday's Queens circulation increased after three years of losses, while the Queens circulation of The News dipped. Retailers like Seaman Furniture, which advertise in both, have limited budgets. Eventually, Ms. Eaton said, new expenditures for ads in Express would require her to cut spending elsewhere. Perhaps at Newsday. Or, perhaps, at The News.
Cannibalization of readers and advertising dollars, is a consideration for executives of The News. But Mr. Goodstein said he was not worried. Express, he said, posed little threat to The News. "If we compare them, the morning paper is the novel, the evening paper is the Cliffs Notes." Edward Kosner, editor in chief of The Daily News, said Express has a staff of 20, about half carved out of The News staff and many of the rest hired, for the moment, on a contingency basis.
"The New York market is going to stay competitive," Mr. Goodstein said. "The way we're positioning our product is as an all-day news product." Much of its breaking business news will come from the San Francisco-based Web site CBSMarketwatch.com.
But can The Daily News's daily circulation (730,542 for the six months ended March 31) withstand the possible hammer effect of The Post's price cut? With a circulation measured at 436,544 for the period ended March 31, The Post looses less from such an action than The News does if it follows suit.
Mr. Murdoch, for his part, is legendary for using blunt instruments like price cuts to good effect in one market after another. In London, a 1993 price cut at The Times of London brought in close to 400,000 new readers, more than half of whom stayed even when the price went back up. Its rival, The Daily Telegraph, was forced to cut its own prices in response.
In Britain, cuts in the cover price are a more dire move, since 35 percent to 50 percent of most British newspapers' revenue come from readers. By contrast, most American newspapers gain close to 80 percent of their revenue from advertisers. Still, analysts believe The Post already loses at least $10 million annually; the new price cut should add millions more to the loss column.
As Mr. Stern sees it, Mr. Murdoch's willingness to sustain that kind of drain makes him a fearsome competitor. "I've been in many businesses, including publishing. I can tell you categorically: I don't want to be in any business where I have to compete with Rupert Murdoch."
Ken Chandler, publisher of The Post, alluded to the News Corporation's willingness to endure economic pain when he said, "I remind people that we have a history of being patient and taking a long-term view with newspapers." He added, "Basically, we just see this price change as a chance to introduce new readers to the paper and reintroduce old readers who may not have looked at us recently," pointing out that the paper has increased its daily circulation by 50,000 in the last five years.
Keeping that upward momentum is important, particularly when $200 million worth of new presses are nearing completion. Some observers suggest it may also be important for The Post to impress federal regulators with its willingness to publish at great cost to itself -- so they will not overrule the News Corporation's recently announced plans to buy a second television station in New York as an unacceptable concentration of media power.
For his part, Mr. Chandler is willing to do some genteel trash-talking about his rivals at The News. "Our hawkers will go toe to toe with theirs," he said. "And we have got a few things that we're keeping close to our chest that will make life more interesting." He does not rule out the possibility that his morning paper will publish a few evening special editions of its own. Major events at the Summer Olympics in Sydney are scheduled for the early-morning hours, East Coast time -- perfect timing for a noon deadline.
Indeed, it is no accident that Express is starting just as the Summer Olympics are about to begin and the pre-Christmas advertising begins to roll in. But then what? Ms. Eaton of Seaman said she was originally asked to commit to 16 weeks of advertising (she committed to 8). Mr. Goodstein said Express's viability -- meaning its appeal to advertisers -- would be continually monitored; it is clear that it could be abandoned quickly if its usefulness seemed doubtful.
Meanwhile, executives at The Post will be monitoring their own circulation; Mr. Chandler does not rule out further price cuts, ignoring Mr. Goodstein's provocative description of The Post's move as a "desperation" strategy.
"Obviously this is a very, very competitive environment," Mr. Chandler said. "We are wholly focused on The Post and we see The Post as a long-term investment."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: As commuters wait at the 30th Street Station in Philadelphia, some read copies of Metro, a Swedish-owned free newspaper. (Laura Pedrick/The New York Times)(pg. C16); The New York Post cut its price to 25 cents as its main rival, The Daily News, prepared a free paper, Express. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Tale of the Tabloids"
In the 1990's, New York's two main tabloid newpapers have gone through turbulent changes. The Daily News, which never recovered its circulation after a strike 10 years ago, will introduce a free afternoon paper tomorrow.

THE DAILY NEWS
OCT. '90 -- Nine of 10 News unions go on strike for five months.
MARCH '91 -- The Tribune Company sells The News to Robert Maxwell for $60 million.
NOV. '91 -- Mr. Maxwell is found dead at sea. The next month, The News files for bankruptcy.
JAN. '93 -- Mortimer B. Zuckerman and Fred Drasner take over The News.
MARCH '00 -- Edward Kosner is named editor in chief of The News.
SEPT. '00 -- The News introduces Express, a free paper.
 
NEW YORK POST
AUG. '91 -- The Post's owner, Peter S. Kalikow, files for personal bankruptcy.
MARCH '93 -- Abraham Hirshfield, a real estate developer, takes over The Post.
OCT. '93 -- Rupert Murdoch, who owned The Post from 1976 to 1988, buys back the bankrupt paper.
APRIL '96 -- The Post brings back its Sunday edition and charges only 50 cents.
FEB. '00 -- Xana Antunes is named editor in chief of The Post.
 
Graph compares the total paid circulation ranging from zero to $1.2 million from 1989-2000
(Data as of March and September of each year)
(Source: Audit Bureau of Circulations circulation figures )(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Losing in Core Markets"
New York's main tabloids are in a war of attrition, with The New York Daily News's only gain in circulation in recent years coming in Manhattan and the New York Post gaining only in Brooklyn. In Queens, the News's stronghold, readership was also down for the Long Island paper, Newsday, but it is turning upward.
 
MANHATTAN
 
Daily News
1999 average circulation, thousands of copies: 119.7
(percentage change from 1996): +4.1%
 
Post
1999 average circulation, thousands of copies: 100.1
(percentage change from 1996): -3.2%
 
STATEN ISLAND
 
Daily News
1999 average circulation, thousands of copies: 22.4
(percentage change from 1996): -2.6%
 
Post
1999 average circulation, thousands of copies: 13.0
(percentage change from 1996): -14.5%
 
BRONX
 
Daily News
1999 average circulation, thousands of copies: 77.8
(percentage change from 1996): -3.4%
 
Post
1999 average circulation, thousands of copies: 19.5
(percentage change from 1996): -12.9%
 
QUEENS
 
Daily News
1999 average circulation, thousands of copies: 108.3
(percentage change from 1996): -5.0%
 
Post
1999 average circulation, thousands of copies: 43.1
(percentage change from 1996): -14.3%
 
Newsday
1999 average circulation, thousands of copies: 77.2
(percentage change from 1996): -8.5%
 
BROOKLYN
 
Daily News
1999 average circulation, thousands of copies: 125.6
(percentage change from 1996): -9.0%
 
Post
1999 average circulation, thousands of copies: 60.4
(percentage change from 1996): +12.7%
 
(Source: Audit Bureau of Circulations)(pg. C16)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (80%); NWS (ASX) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK DAILY NEWS; NEW YORK POST NEWS CORP (80%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (84%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (84%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK DAILY NEWS; NEW YORK POST AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (84%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (84%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ADVERTISING DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); PUBLISHING (77%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY; BLAIR, JAYSON KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000



255 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Robert E. Dewar, 77, Who Led Kmart in 70's Expansion, Dies

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD 

 BODY:
Robert E. Dewar, the former chairman and chief executive of the Kmart Corporation, who led the company's huge expansion of retail stores nationwide, died at his home on Thursday. He was 77 and lived in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
The cause of death was complications from colon cancer, said Mr. Dewar's son, Robert Jr. 
 After Mr. Dewar spent three years as a pilot in the United States Naval Air Corps, he attended law school at Wayne State University in Detroit. He received his degree in 1948. For six months after his graduation, he practiced at a Michigan firm, but his interest quickly turned toward corporate law.
In 1949, he joined the legal department of the S.S. Kresge Company, which operated a group of variety stores -- those "five-and-dime" stores that operated usually in downtown areas or old city neighborhoods. He continued as a company lawyer until 1960, when he was promoted to assistant to the president.
For the next two years, Mr. Dewar studied finance in evening classes at the University of Michigan Graduate School of Business Administration.
By 1963, Mr. Dewar's classes apparently paid off -- he was promoted to assistant vice president of finance. He worked in a variety of finance positions until he was named president in 1970. Two years later, he was promoted to chairman and chief executive.
By that time, Kresge was in the middle of a transformation. During the 1960's, the company began moving away from the variety store strategy toward diversifying into low-margin, one-stop discount centers, known as Kmarts.
With Mr. Dewar at the helm, Kresge earned a reputation as a company in a hurry. With inflation and competition heating up, the company set lofty sales goals and began an aggressive campaign to open additional discount centers around the country. In 1977, Kresge renamed itself after its flagship business, becoming the Kmart Corporation.
By 1979, when Mr. Dewar became chairman of the company's executive and finance committees and relinquished his other titles, Kmart had won a reputation as one of the country's largest and fastest-growing retail operations. Mr. Dewar continued with the company in that position until his retirement in 1988.
In the years since leaving Kmart, Mr. Dewar focused his attention on his two other passions: opera and the city of Detroit. He was named chairman of the Michigan Opera Theater, where he worked to raise more than $18 million. That money was used to transform the former Grand Circus Theatre into a new opera house for Michigan.
"He went from auto company to auto company, from person to person, to raise that money," Robert Dewar Jr. said.
During his retirement, Mr. Dewar also served on the board of several nonprofit organizations in the state, and was chairman of a local United Way organization.
In addition to his son Robert Jr., Mr. Dewar is survived by his wife, Helen, and his two other adult children, Jane and John.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert E. Dewar (1972)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: KM (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (94%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (96%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KMART CORP (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (96%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (90%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); LAWYERS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); NAVIES (71%); CITIES (68%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (67%); SALES PLAN (64%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%); COLORECTAL CANCER (57%); 

PERSON: DEWAR, ROBERT E; EICHENWALD, KURT ROBERT DEWAR JR (95%); ROBERT E DEWAR (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000



256 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Agrees to Increase Oil Production by 3 Percent

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE 

DATELINE: VIENNA, Sept. 10

 BODY:
Faced with growing international pressure to drive down stubbornly high oil prices, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries decided today to increase its crude production by 800,000 barrels a day, spokesmen for the group and delegates said.
An official statement on the production increase will be issued Monday afternoon, the spokesmen said. The OPEC meeting was cut short because the city of Vienna had planned a celebration for the delegates this evening to mark the cartel's 40th anniversary. 
 The members were scheduled to meet again on Monday morning to confirm the increase and to discuss other issues in preparation for a meeting of OPEC heads of state in Caracas, Venezuela later this month.
Just days before this OPEC session, the price of crude oil reached its highest levels since the Persian Gulf war, before receding somewhat on Friday. OPEC members said they hoped that the 3 percent increase from its current daily production of 25.4 million barrels will gradually push oil prices below $30 a barrel -- it has been above $33 -- with most nations asserting that a favorable price would be between $22 and $28 a barrel.
Most of OPEC realizes that oil that costs more than $30 a barrel threatens to stunt worldwide economic growth, which, in turn, would cut into revenues member nations earn. But many oil industry experts in Vienna said that although the decision to increase its output signals OPEC's willingness to rein in prices, the increase is probably not enough to result in a significant fall in the cost of crude oil. They said it probably would bring prices down to about $30 a barrel.
"It's an important first step in dissipating the upward pressure on crude oil prices," said Michael Rothman, director of energy research for Merrill Lynch. "But we have to see if inventories in the U.S. increase down the line."
Indeed, crude oil prices in the United States have been driven up largely because of concern over the low supplies of crude oil and heating fuel compared with the levels in previous years. Most experts say the low inventories stem from high demand for gasoline and diesel during the summer and OPEC's increasingly constrained supply.
The cartel has raised production by nearly 3 million barrels since the beginning of the year, but the growing supply of oil has been quickly absorbed by the booming international economy, although demand has slackened slightly in the last few months as a result of high fuel prices.
Prices remain very high in Europe, as well as in the United States, and there has been a wave of protests across the continent. While truckers and others who had imposed blockades across France gradually lifted them this weekend, protesters tied up traffic in the center of Brussels today to protest high fuel costs.
This latest production increase by OPEC, which would probably go into effect Oct. 1, appears to be as much as the group could eke out. Most OPEC nations and countries allied with them like Mexico and Norway are already producing crude at maximum capacity. Only Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are believed to have spare capacity to devote to increased production.
Most OPEC countries stand to lose money from the production increase, because they cannot produce the extra volumes needed to compensate for a decline in prices. But OPEC delegates conceded that they were under substantial pressure from the West to act, despite the conviction among many that a powerful demand in Europe, Asia and the United States is what is responsible for pushing up the prices.
"OPEC is not the cause of these high consumer prices," said Abdulla Salatt, the OPEC governor from Qatar. "We know that prices really can't be affected very much" by the OPEC decision.
A major factor in determining the impact of the decision on world crude oil supplies, which is a rough estimate, at best, is how much so-called new oil will be produced now. Since OPEC's last meeting in late June, cartel members have been producing above their official quotas, by anywhere from 650,000 barrels to 750,000 barrels a day -- the bulk of it seeping quietly out of Saudi Arabia, according to industry experts.
The increase today takes into account such "cheating," so it remains unclear how much additional oil actually will flow. During the coming months, more overproduction may occur, but volumes will probably be small, given the greatly limited extra capacity among OPEC members.
Obviously, not all the oil from the OPEC increase will be destined for the United States, and the first shipments of any new oil will probably arrive in early November, a month after the decision goes into effect. In the meantime, if supplies of crude oil and heating fuel in the United States remain low, the chances grow for price spikes and possible shortages of heating oil in the winter.
With such a scenario looming in an election year, the Clinton administration and the Department of Energy are considering releasing oil from the country's Strategic Petroleum Reserve to replenish commercial crude and heating oil reserves, industry experts said.
The estimated 570-million-barrel reserve was created in the mid-1970's, during the height of the Arab oil embargo, to shield the United States from another global energy crisis. While current oil prices and low heating oil supplies may not constitute a crisis, the administration has staked its credibility on a yearlong campaign to reduce oil prices.
The energy department is already in the process of creating a two-million-barrel heating oil reserve for the northeastern part of the United States, where most of the country's heating oil is consumed. The new idea of tapping the Strategic Petroleum Reserve would apparently entail giving oil from the reserves to refineries this autumn, with the refineries required to return it to the reserve at a later date. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (53%); MER (NYSE) (53%); 8675 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRIA (90%); EUROPE (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (69%); BELGIUM (65%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (65%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (53%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRIA (90%); EUROPE (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (69%); BELGIUM (65%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (65%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRODUCTION OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); CARTELS (90%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); GASOLINE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); DESERT STORM (68%); GASOLINE MARKETS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); ENERGY RESEARCH (62%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000



257 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Avoid the Lines. Vote Now!

BYLINE: By Gary Krist; Gary Krist is the author, most recently, of "Chaos Theory," a novel.

 BODY:
Dear Voter:
In order that our presidential candidates can better tailor their policy initiatives to the needs, priorities and blatant self-interest of you, the average hard-working American family, the bipartisan Commission for Responsive Electioneering has assembled the following questionnaire. 
 Candidates from the two major parties were asked to submit one question in each of five different policy areas. Please answer all questions in full and return the questionnaire to: C.R.E., Dept. of Public Pandering, 5001 K Street NW, Washington.
 
The Tax Cut
GORE: If we Americans are to stay the course in this greatest economic expansion in our history, we must be especially vigilant about the effects of any federal tax cut on inflation and consumer spending. To help us protect our robust economy from the dangers of overheating, please list below all probable areas of increased spending for you and your household under the following scenarios: (A) a 1.5% tax cut; (B) a 2.73% tax cut partially offset by a $257 decrease in the Dependent Exemption Allowance; (C) a 1.357% increase in the Earned Income Tax Credit, combined with a 2.541% increase in the Child Care Credit and abolition of the Alternative Minimum Tax as calculated on Form 6251, line 11, of your 1999 Federal Income Tax Return.
 BUSH: How much of your own money do you want back?
(A) $1,000
(B) $10,000
(C) As much as you can give me.
 
Technology and the Internet
 GORE: Like any proud father, I take a great interest in the health and welfare of my baby, the Internet. (Just kidding. See? I can poke fun at myself like any other regular guy!) But seriously, the Internet is poised to change the way we live in fundamental ways. In order to ensure that it realizes its massive potential to better the lives of each and every American, we need to know just how and for what purposes you use the Internet. Please print out and attach the contents of the history folder of your preferred Web browser. Also append information about ISP, modem connection (56K, DSL, ISDN or cable), computer chip megahertz rating, and hard disk size. If necessary, seek out the minor children in your household for assistance.
BUSH: Internet, Schminternet. Has anyone ever gotten onto that America Online thing between 4 and 6 in the afternoon? Or do you -- like the Rodriguez family of Beloit, Michigan, or the Chen family of Seattle, or the Baileys of Manchester, Vermont -- spend hours listening to busy signals, just waiting to hear the little man say "You've got mail"? We can fix that.
 
Education
GORE: Priority One -- Don't you think we owe it to our children to give them the best possible education money can provide?
 BUSH: Priority One -- Don't you think we owe it to our children to give them the best possible education teachers can provide?
 
Health Care
GORE: Health care, as we all know, is an extremely complex issue -- one that could fill hours and hours and hours of adult, intelligent debate, preferably in front of a national audience on all major networks, ahem, ahem. However, in the interest of brevity, just attach complete medical records, drug prescription information and insurance policies for you and every member of your household. We'll take it from there.
BUSH: You wanted details, we gave you details. Like 300 pages worth of details on Medicare alone! Lots of numbers, statistics, cost analyses-type things in there -- hey, we can play that game as well as they can. But the real question is this: Is anyone out there actually gonna read the darn thing?
 
Social Security
GORE: As the Baby Boom Generation moves toward retirement, it becomes increasingly important that we ensure the long-term fiscal health of the Social Security system. You can help us plan for your future by estimating your automatic payroll deductions and/or self-employment tax contributions to the system over the next 10-, 20- and 30-year time periods, assuming normal income growth of 3.5 percent per year. (Dot-com entrepreneurs: attach separate schedule for vesting stock options and obscene capital gains.)
Please include information about your probable retirement age and any health problems, self-destructive behaviors or other factors that may impact your life expectancy and therefore affect the amount of time you will likely be claiming benefits.
BUSH: Let me speak plainly here to finish up. So here goes: Who would you rather trust with your hard-earned retirement nest egg -- Wall Street or Uncle Sam? Answer yes or no.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Ron Barrett)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); CHILDREN (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); INCOME TAX (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); MODEMS (69%); CHILD CARE (66%); 

PERSON: KRIST, GARY; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000



258 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: In Aisle 3, Meet-and-Greet With Belgian Royals

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
It was just another ho-hum supermarket promotion until the royals arrived in the cheese aisle.
Then, quite suddenly yesterday, the diminutive D'Agostino market in Chelsea became a fanatically overscrutinized beachhead of international trade. To the astonishment of grocery shoppers, dozens of reporters and diplomats invaded the modest store to attend the visit of the fairytale couple that has dominated all those magazine covers and glossy photo spreads in Europe. 
 At 2:38 p.m., the handsome Crown Prince Philippe of Belgium and his dazzling bride, Princess Mathilde, arrived in a nine-car motorcade that included five black Mercedeses and a police escort. For the couple, whose Brussels nuptials were celebrated in December as the last royal wedding of the millennium, it was Day 2 of a whirlwind five-day visit.
No, they hadn't decided to try a little shopping-cart schlepping to enliven their giddy but overscheduled round of exclusive galas. Instead, their mission was to showcase Belgian products and industries while capitalizing on the growing visibility of things Belgian in New York City of late.
"Who ever thought the Prince and Princess of Belgium would come to Chelsea and take a grape with us," said Zell Schwartzman, who lives a block from the store and was taking in the spectacle from the relative safety of the salad bar. She allowed that she was far from a Belgian novice "because of my next door neighbor," Alphonsine Conolly, a Belgian who has lived in the United States for 41 years.
"I wanted a picture of my prince," Ms. Conolly said, clutching her camera.
And she began snapping as the royals made their way around the cozy 6,500-square-foot D'Agostino, on 23rd Street near Eighth Avenue, kicking off a celebration of Belgian products at the food chain's 24 stores, and incidentally furthering their mission to win the hearts, minds, media and market share of New Yorkers.
But one grim reality did intrude: the news that a cousin of Prince Philippe, Prince Guillaume of Luxembourg, had been severely injured in a car crash yesterday. "It is a great shock; he is in a coma," Prince Philippe said in an interview. "If it becomes more grave, we may return."
In the interim, the 40-year-old prince belied his reputation for reticence by chatting up folks at displays of Belgian chocolate, Belgian marmalade and Belgian beer.
The royals had been welcomed on Saturday at Kennedy International Airport by reporters and news crews (40 had accompanied them from Brussels on a military jet, where the couple broke all precedent by chatting at length with them).
At a reception Saturday night for 350 of the metropolitan region's 8,000 Belgians at Markt, the glam Belgian bistro in the meatpacking district, the royals stepped through intermittent showers to face the multitude. "This rain is very Belgian," said Danielle Kurz, the Belgian-born owner of the Belgian gallery Artwall + B, in Rutherford, N.J. "But there, the rain would be colder."
The royal couple navigated the crowds confidently and chatted easily with Belgian subjects as well as American admirers, some of whom seemed positively royal-struck. There were actually flustered curtsies and a few "Your Majesties" and a "Highness" or two. But in fact, according to Belgian consulate officials, the prince and princess -- as Belgium's future, not present, monarchs -- are to be addressed as "monseigneur" and "madame."
The prince sipped a glass of Stella Artois beer during the meet-and-greet at Markt, while 27-year-old Princess Mathilde worked the room to unrestrained admiration. Although some have likened Princess Mathilde to the model Claudia Schiffer or Diana, Princess of Wales, "I don't see that," said Jerry Lucadamo, a Westchester teacher who had been invited to the reception with his Belgian wife. He explained: "I think she's so Grace Kelly."
In an interview yesterday in a Belgian restaurant, Le Pain Quotidien, the prince expressed his satisfaction that in the three years since his last New York visit "the economic boom is now visible everywhere."
And Belgium wants to contribute to it. To honor the royal visit, one luxury Brussels fabric maker, Scabal, is exporting a new woolen product it calls "diamond chip." At $1,000 a yard, it is blended with microscopic pieces of diamond from Antwerp. "The diamonds are wrapped around the threads," said Scabal's American agent, Neal Boyarsky. "You see, that is why the fabric doesn't cut people's skin."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prince Philippe of Belgium, left, and his bride, Princess Mathilde, took a break from exclusive galas to visit a D'Agostino's in Chelsea yesterday. Their goal was to showcase Belgian products and industries. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BELGIUM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGIUM; NEW YORK CITY; BELGIUM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); 

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); SALES PROMOTIONS (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); INTERVIEWS (72%); MARKET SHARE (67%); BEER & ALE (65%); AIRPORTS (60%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN; PHILIPPE (CROWN PRINCE OF BELGIUM); MATHILDE (CROWN PRINCESS OF BELGIUM) PRINCE PHILIPPE (66%); PRINCESS MATHILDE (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000



259 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Experts Fear a Brutal Season For Heating in the Northeast

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
It was perhaps only natural, as chilly, fall-like air flowed into the New York region last week -- capping a much cooler than normal summer -- to let out a sigh of relief. Electricity experts had predicted power failures and brownouts, but neither happened. Bills went up, but not as much as they could have, because air-conditioners were not running round the clock.
But don't gloat just yet. Energy experts and meteorologists say that the Northeast, for reasons as varied as the patterns of Canadian arctic air flow and decisions made by oil refiners in the Midwest and oil buyers in Germany, is now facing what could be a particularly brutal heating season. 
 Much of the problem, they say, is broad and national: a shortage of natural gas, the most common heating fuel nationwide, sent wholesale prices last week to a level that market researchers say has never been reached in early September, nearly double what it was a year ago.
Regional forces, however, especially a steep drop in Northeast heating-oil inventories and what some forecasters predict will be a sharply colder autumn in the Northeast, are likely to compound the effect of those high prices.
Although no utility or regulatory body is predicting an actual shortage of fuel oil or natural gas for the region, the public anxiety over the price and availability of a commodity that most people consider a necessity is almost certain to keep the energy issue on the front burner. The economic tumult of a deregulated electricity market in New York State, the key energy issue of this summer, will be heightened in winter by the strategies of petrochemical traders around the world.
"It's a bit of Murphy's Law -- a lot of little things have gone wrong," said Sarah Emerson, the managing director of Energy Security Analysis Inc., a research and consulting firm in Wakefield, Mass.
Last month, for example, the price of No. 2 heating oil -- used primarily in homes -- arriving in New York Harbor reached its highest level in nearly 10 years: more than $36 a barrel, up 59 percent from August 1999. At the same time, the regional oil inventory, called days of supply, reached its lowest level since 1996, and inventories in August were 47 percent below the level of a year ago. The monthly average wholesale price of natural gas on the New York market was also up about 59 percent from August 1999.
KeySpan Energy, the region's largest provider of natural gas, warned its customers in July, even before the latest price surge, that this winter's bills would be 12 percent to 15 percent higher than last winter's. And one of the first long-range weather forecasts for the region, issued late last month, said that temperatures in the New York region this fall would be much cooler than last year.
The emerging winter's tale of energy in New York City is also vastly more complicated than this summer's. In June, July and August, the key questions were how hot the weather would get and whether the electricity supply would be able to handle the demand. The new terrain is as unpredictable as the next northeaster. Energy experts said the heating-oil inventory problem, for instance, could resolve itself suddenly with a vast increase in supplies in midwinter, as sellers from around the world rush to capitalize on high prices. Or the problem could be compounded as sellers try to play the market, holding back oil and choking off supply even more as they wait for higher prices to come.
The reach of the global economy also explains why reserves have fallen so low already. Because the price of gasoline was high in the Midwest this summer, refinery owners found that making plain old heating oil just did not pay. At the same time, Germany went on a buying binge to bolster its oil reserves, taking much of the European supply. A fire at a Kuwaiti oil field cut back the trans-Atlantic oil flow even more. A commodities-trading phenomenon that sounds like a new dance craze, contango, in which traders bet that prices will drop in the future, gave oil distributors little incentive to stockpile oil. With the heating season only weeks away, inventories in the mid-Atlantic states were nearly 40 percent below the 1990's average for this time of year.
But however it happened, low inventories in the Northeast have become a factor in the price of energy.
"When you have very low inventories, there are ripple effects," said Kevin Lindemer, a senior director at Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a research and consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass. "Unexpected things can cause price fluctuations."
During one winter in the early 1990's, for example, high winds kept oil barges from docking in New York for weeks. But that was not a problem then because reserves were twice as high as they are now. In other winters, iced-over rivers or snow-clogged streets hampered oil deliveries, but the problem did not make the front page because supplies were ample. This year, Mr. Lindemer said, bad weather that affects deliveries could be as much of a factor as bad weather that makes people use more fuel.
Another important factor in the energy price picture is that the mix of fuels in the region has changed. Demand for natural gas in the Northeast has soared in recent years and is expected to climb further, altering the chemistry of a region that long had a national distinction for its dependence on heating oil. All the new electricity-generating plants in the region, for example, burn natural gas, and the ones being proposed will also burn natural gas. And customers of KeySpan have been requesting conversions from oil to gas in record numbers this year, the company says. All those extra buyers of natural gas could push prices up if national supplies remain tight.
New York State and the federal government have both taken steps to smooth out potential bumps. The Clinton administration said late last month that it had reached agreements to bring two million barrels, or 84 million gallons, of heating oil into New Jersey and Connecticut to bolster reserves. And although most energy analysts said the added oil would dampen price increases, others said the new supply could make some suppliers complacent about building up their own inventories.
The New York State Public Service Commission, which regulates energy delivery companies, issued rules last month requiring some big energy customers, especially industrial users that can switch from one fuel to another, to increase their oil reserves now so that sudden surges in demand caused by switching will not unbalance the markets. A spokesman for KeySpan said the company was training two dozen inspectors to make sure that customers comply with the rules.
The weather, of course, is the biggest variable of all. Energycast, an online energy and weather-forecasting service, said late last month that the daily average temperature for November in New York would be 39.6 degrees, 4.4 degrees colder than last year's daily average for November. On the other hand, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which also issues long-range forecasts, has said the fall and early winter forecast in the Northeast is too uncertain to call.
Behind all these variables is a certain mystery. The oil inventories that are reported to government agencies and energy consultants are based on huge wholesale stockpiles, not on the more precise numbers from local companies, which do not have to tell anyone what they have. If a supplier admitted to sitting on a lot of oil, market analysts say, his customers could reasonably ask why their bills were so high. So the suppliers speak in a kind of code.
"They say, 'I'm wet,' which means, 'I have product,' or, 'I'm dry,' which means they don't have any," said Tom Collins, a spokesman for the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority. "That's all you have to work with."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Keeping Track: When Winter Energy Prices Heat Up"
If a harsh winter is ahead, consumers may feel the effects of high heating oil prices and a shrinking supply of natural gas.
 
Charts show the August price of one barrel of home heating oil and a days supply of natural gas in the United States in August since 1990.
(Source: Energy Security Analysis, Inc.)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (84%); NG (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (79%); GERMANY (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (84%); NEW YORK (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (79%); GERMANY (71%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); GAS (FUEL); WEATHER; HEATING POWER FAILURES (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); WEATHER (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (76%); METEOROLOGY (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); HEATING OIL PRICES (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); INVENTORIES (73%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); PETROCHEMICALS (70%); GASOLINE MARKETS (68%); CHEMICALS TRADE (68%); CHEMICALS MARKETS (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000



260 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Clash Time in the Senate Race

 BODY:
New York's Senate race had settled recently into a tediously safe campaign between two cautious candidates. All that changed over the weekend with the politically motivated White House decision to release a 1998 photograph of Representative Rick Lazio shaking hands with Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader. As a result, Mr. Lazio and Hillary Rodham Clinton will likely use their debate in Buffalo on Wednesday to continue their highly charged battle for the Jewish vote and to defend the tactics being used in that competition.
Indeed, New York voters will have to judge substance as well as tactics. On substance, they should be clear that both sides are trying to sell pejorative explanations of acceptable diplomatic behavior. President Clinton was right to shake the hand of President Fidel Castro of Cuba when they met at the United Nations last week. Mrs. Clinton made the correct protocol judgment not to have a public confrontation with Suha Arafat during a trip to Israel last year. Finally, Mr. Lazio and the other Congressmen who joined Mr. Clinton in a meeting with Mr. Arafat made the appropriate judgment in shaking Mr. Arafat's hand. 
 What New York voters should look for Wednesday is the level of maturity with which Mr. Lazio and Mrs. Clinton discuss the whole range of issues and the level of skill with which they address this skirmish. After weeks of long-range exchanges, the public will at last get a chance to see them really tested. Mr. Lazio will now have to show that he can explain the seeming hypocrisy of his position that some handshakes are worse than others. For her part, Mrs. Clinton needs to show that she does not need meddling from a White House well known for trickery to prop up her candidacy.
With polls showing a very tight race, the debate offers the advantage of broader exposure for Mr. Lazio. But with the exposure will come a more intense kind of testing. So far, Mr. Lazio's ability to respond under pressure has been an unknown factor. His supporters have counted on the deep animosities that many people feel toward Mrs. Clinton to keep his campaign moving. Those feelings among conservatives have helped boost state and national fund-raising for Mr. Lazio. But many people still want to vote for somebody they feel can do the job, not merely against someone who irritates them.
Like the two other debates scheduled before the election, this one presents difficulties for the first lady. Since she lacks a legislative record, she must convince voters by the force of personality and conviction. Her advisers want her to focus on issues like education, health care and the economy. Polls show that Mrs. Clinton has recently gained support among Jewish voters after months of tension. She won some applause for using her White House influence in the effort to keep Jonathan Pollard, an American convicted of spying for Israel, from being transferred to a rougher prison environment. Further attempts to meddle in this case would almost surely backfire, however, because of its serious national security implications.
Against this landscape, we can see key tasks for each candidate. Mr. Lazio has to show that he can function outside the cozy world of Long Island G.O.P. politics. Mrs. Clinton must prove that she can fight her corner without help from her husband or the White House press office. And the reality for both candidates as they face the cameras is that the winning votes are still in play. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); CUBA (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); CUBA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; DEBATING; EDITORIALS; JEWS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); ESPIONAGE (50%); 

PERSON: LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); FIDEL CASTRO (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000



261 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: South Korean Says North Agrees U.S. Troops Should Stay

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

 BODY:
The most important outcome of his summit conference with North Korea in June, President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea says, was a common understanding that American troops must stay in South Korea to prevent a vacuum on the Korean peninsula that would be inviting to its neighbors.
"We are surrounded by big powers -- Russia, Japan and China -- so the United States must continue to stay for stability and peace in East Asia," he said. Mr. Kim said he was recounting almost the exact words of his counterpart, Kim Jong Il, in North Korea during their meetings in Pyongyang. 
 The Communist government in North Korea, whose hostility has been cited by the Clinton administration as a major reason for pursuing a missile defense system, wants normal relations with United States, Kim Dae Jung said.
"I believe that North Korea wants improved relations with the United States," Mr. Kim said on Saturday in an interview at his Manhattan hotel at the end of the gathering of world leaders at the United Nations. "That is their basic goal. If it is not their basic goal, there is no reason why they should change their position on American forces."
The mantra of Communist propaganda since the end of Korean War has been that American troops must leave South Korea. So the North Korean leader's support of their staying is a reversal of position -- albeit one that Pyongyang has not yet acknowledged in public.
After a peace treaty replaces the armistice now in place between the two Koreas, the presence of American troops in South Korea and on the Japanese island of Okinawa would operate "under the same logic" that governed the continuing presence of American troops in Europe as part of NATO after the collapse of the Soviet Union, the South Korean president suggested.
Mr. Kim, a human rights dissident who was put on death row by the South Korean military junta and then survived to become the democratically elected president, spoke eloquently of what he saw as the steady but long journey to bring the two Koreas together.
During his visit here, Mr. Kim, 75, was a sought-after figure: he met privately with President Clinton, he answered questions from Democratic and Republican experts who are advising the two presidential candidates on Asia and he delivered a speech at a Korea Society event.
Mr. Kim, dapper in a blue suit and pink tie, said he was encouraged that Republican and Democratic experts supported the continued presence of American troops on the peninsula.
Overall, he said it was impossible to predict the speed and substance of what would happen. "No one predicted unification in Germany so suddenly," he said in the interview. But for the moment, he said, the goal in Korea is not unification between the totalitarian regime in the North and the democratic government of the South. Even it that were to occur, he said, "it would create a lot of negative consequences."
By the end of his term in a little more than two years, he wants to see "peace, cooperation and exchanges" with North Korea, cemented by a peace treaty, he said. But to get even that far, he added, South Korea needs help from its allies.
"For things to progress smoothly, there must be improved relations between the United States and North Korea, between North Korea and the European Union and between North Korea and Japan," he said. "We cannot carry on this process on our own."
One important step toward better United States-North Korean relations, he said, would be looking seriously at the suggestion by Kim Jong Il that North Korea is willing to curb its missile program in exchange for financing that would allow it to launch satellites.
The North Koreans first broached the idea this summer to the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, who discussed it with President Clinton in July. Since then, American officials have held talks with Moscow on exactly what North Korea had in mind. Senior administration officials said last week that the idea appeared to be worth pursuing but that the United States needed to ensure that it did not involve the transfer of technological advances to the North Koreans.
Mr. Kim said he had spoken to President Clinton in their meeting this week about the possibility of a satellites-for-missiles deal. Mr. Kim said he believed that the North Korean suggestion would "serve as the basis" for the ongoing negotiations between North Korea and the United States on Pyongyang's missile program.
On the financing of the satellite launchings, Mr. Kim said it was not clear to him whether the North Koreans were seeking assistance from the United States or from multilateral sources.
But one aspect is clear, he said. Although the North's leader suggested three satellite launchings a year at the cost of $300 million each, "the experts on our side say that the rocket launches do not cost as much as the chairman says."
Once relations between the United States and North Korea improve, Mr. Kim said, there will be enough confidence for wealthy nations, multilateral institutions -- the International Monetary Fund, the Asia Development Bank -- and private investors to help develop the moribund North Korean economy.
The South Korean government does not have the resources to carry the burden of investment in the north, but will encourage the country's businesses to plunge ahead, he said.
Since the summit conference in June, officials from South and North Korea have started working on a basic economic framework to encourage investment in the North, he said. The steps include investment guarantees, avoidance of double taxation and dispute arbitration, he said.
Officials from the defense ministries on both sides are scheduled to meet to discuss measures to reduce tension. Those would include observations by each side of the other's military exercises and exchanges of information on each other's troop movements.
Talking of the peace treaty that he said he hoped he would sign with North Korea before leaving office in 2003, Mr. Kim said the United States and China, who were also combatants in the Korean War, would play "supporting roles" without being signers.
By the time he leaves office, he said, he wants to see North Korea as a "responsible member of the international community."
In economics, he hopes there will be "significant" cooperation between the United States and North Korea. The North, he suggested, could follow the model of China and North Vietnam, where "the economy is very successfully opened" but the political system remains intact.
Mr. Kim said the North Korean leader might visit Seoul as early as this fall, but more likely next spring. A close aide to Kim Jong Il arrived in Seoul today to discuss the visit, Agence France-Presse reported.
As the moves towards normal relations unfold, there are seemingly small bumps that require considerable effort to overcome.
One occurred at the start of the United Nations gathering, when the second most powerful leader in North Korea, Kim Yong Nam, angrily turned back home after being put through a body search at Frankfurt Airport by employees of an American airline.
The South Korean president was supposed to meet with the North Korean in New York as part of the reconciliation process. So he asked President Clinton for his help in calming the insulted North Koreans.
On Friday, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright announced that the North Koreans had accepted the apologies and that the North Korean foreign minister, Paek Nam Sun, would be coming to the United Nations this week. But he will arrive after President Kim leaves New York.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea, during an interview after the United Nations gathering. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (95%); JAPAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (76%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (72%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (95%); JAPAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); GERMANY (73%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (72%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SOUTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (69%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (61%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (54%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; KIM JONG IL; KIM DAE JUNG (PRES) KIM JONG IL (92%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000



262 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Unfriendly Skies: What to Do?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Crisis for Air Traffic System: More Passengers, More Delays" (front page, Sept. 5): 
 Our aviation industry is a cornerstone of the global economy. Yet for years the Federal Aviation Administration ignored its own warnings about the system's reaching gridlock by 2000.
The public and business world are now paying the price with record delays and cancellations, poor service, outdated technology and overburdened airports.
One of the worst chokepoints is O'Hare International Airport. Sixteen years ago, the F.A.A. directed the State of Illinois to begin planning a third regional airport. Those plans are complete but have been stymied by the Clinton administration, bowing to pleas from Mayor Richard M. Daley and the airlines that control O'Hare.
Now Transportation Secretary Rodney Slater and the F.A.A. say that it's time to study aviation problems. But given the agency's knowledge of the problems and inaction, the call rings hollow.
 
JESSE L. JACKSON JR.
Member of Congress, 2nd Dist., Ill.
Washington, Sept. 6, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY AIRPORTS (93%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (91%); CIVIL AVIATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); 

PERSON: JACKSON, JESSE L JR (REPR) JESSE JACKSON (70%); JESSE L JACKSON JR (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000



263 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Harlem U.S.A. Tries to Lure Stores Owned by Minorities

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
Since it opened in February, the Harlem U.S.A. retail and entertainment complex on 125th Street and Frederick Douglass Boulevard has provided jobs for hundreds of local residents and has drawn crowds to national chain stores like Modell's Sporting Goods, Old Navy and HMV Record Stores.
But what Harlem U.S.A. does not yet have are independent stores with minority owners. This has been a sore point with some people in the neighborhood -- among them, the city councilman who represents Harlem, Bill Perkins. 
 Efforts are under way, however, to bring several black-owned businesses to the shopping complex, including Harlem's first large bookstore, said Drew Greenwald, the president of Grid Properties, the private company that developed the $66 million Harlem U.S.A. with the Harlem Commonwealth Council, a local nonprofit organization. Mr. Greenwald said he is negotiating leases with several retailers that want to expand into Harlem. They include Blackberry, a small chain of home-furnishings boutiques; Moshood, which operates a popular clothing store in Fort Greene, Brooklyn; and the bookstore, which is called Hue-Man Experience in Harlem. These stores would occupy a total of 8,500 square feet of adjoining space on the second floor, Mr. Greenwald said.
In June, Clara Villarosa, the founder of Hue-Man Experience, a bookstore in Denver that focuses on black and multicultural themes, received a $475,000 loan from the New York Empowerment Zone to help her get the new bookstore going. Ms. Villarosa sold the Denver store and now lives in Harlem.
The empowerment zone, a seven-member board that administers a huge government program to stimulate economic development in Upper Manhattan and the South Bronx, is expected to vote soon on loans of $325,000 and $300,000, respectively, to Blackberry and Moshood. The loans have been approved by the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, which manages the program for Harlem, Washington Heights and Inwood. The vote was supposed to take place Friday, but the board meeting was postponed after some members complained that the financial information they were given was incomplete. No new meeting date was set.
Jim Capel, the chief of staff for United States Representative Charles B. Rangel, a member of the empowerment zone board, said that he expected the pending loans to be approved. "Oftentimes, emerging businesses have difficulty getting into these buildings because they can't afford the rent," he said. "The empowerment zone is doing everything it can to help them."
Blackberry, based in Arlington, Va., sells African art and candelabras, table runners and other items inspired by African themes, said Barry Blackman, who founded the store 10 years ago with Dorothy White and her daughter, Diane White. The store has boutiques at Macy's in Manhattan and Brooklyn and at Stern's in Brooklyn.
Mr. Blackman said that having a free-standing store at Harlem U.S.A., instead of being limited to a boutique inside a department store, would allow Blackberry to sell furniture along with the smaller items. "To be included in this type of mixture is really very interesting to us," he said, referring to the shopping complex. "The demographics are really great."
Moshood, named for its Nigerian proprietor, carries contemporary clothing made from traditional African prints. The six-year-old store attracts passers-by by featuring live mannequins in its windows and has helped to revitalize the Fulton Street shopping strip in Fort Greene. Moshood also has a store in Atlanta.
Mr. Greenwald said that he has always intended to mix in tenants like these with the national retailers. "We've been trying from Day 1 to identify minority-owned businesses that would fit in with the project," Mr. Greenwald said.
Councilman Perkins said many Harlem residents have mixed feelings about Harlem U.S.A. "Obviously, folks appreciate the convenience of being able to shop in their neighborhood, as opposed to having to travel downtown," Mr. Perkins said. But he said that many entrepreneurs who had stuck it out in Harlem when times were hard now felt they were being left out. "They feel that now that resources are available," he said, "they're not experiencing the good times."
He said the proposed stores, which would be newcomers to the neighborhood, were a "step in the right direction."
Outside the Modell's store at Harlem U.S.A., Ella Brown, an insurance company representative in her 40's who lives in Harlem, said she had nothing against national chains, "just as long as they give to the community, such as jobs."
She said she had only one priority when she went out to shop: "Getting what I want at a reasonable price." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SRL (JSE) (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: HARLEM USA; HARLEM COMMONWEALTH COUNCIL; GRID PROPERTIES SA RETAIL PROPERTIES LTD (91%); HARLEM COMMONWEALTH COUNCIL (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARLEM USA; HARLEM COMMONWEALTH COUNCIL; GRID PROPERTIES HARLEM COMMONWEALTH COUNCIL (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; BLACKS MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); RETAILERS (91%); BOOKSTORES (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); MUSIC STORES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); APPROVALS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY; GREENWALD, DREW CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000



264 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: When Diplomats Flee to Dot-Coms

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your Sept. 4 news article about the State Department's losing its attraction as a lifelong career was right on the mark. Perhaps this trend reflects the reality that in today's economy, career changes are expected and often welcomed. 
 However, it is understandable that topnotch officials are frustrated by a scattershot personnel assignment system, the eternal shuffling of ineffectual personnel, the placement of officers with little management expertise into managerial positions, a promotion system plagued by the worst excesses of grade inflation, an inability to deal informally with other government agencies and nongovernmental organizations, and the endless shuffling of papers to little effect.
As a former diplomat, I know that people join the State Department to perform fulfilling work in the service of their country, not to make their fortunes. But unless the department's hidebound management addresses its glaring problems, it will increasingly lose those who are best able to carry out our foreign policy.
 
GREGG MORROW
Tiverton, R.I., Sept. 5, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT STATE DEPARTMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT STATE DEPARTMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: MORROW, GREGG

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000



265 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: The Town That Prosperity Forgot;
Blighted, Broke and Crime-Ridden, Irvington Seems Helpless to Help Itself

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

DATELINE: IRVINGTON, N.J., Sept. 6

 BODY:
Like many of those who live in this fraying suburb of Newark, Margaret Jackson moved her family here two decades ago to escape the lawlessness, decay and despair then spreading through the city that nearly surrounds it. With its no-nonsense police force and racially mixed neighborhoods, Irvington beckoned middle-class Newark residents with the promise of safe, suburban-style living.
"What a beautiful, beautiful neighborhood this was," Mrs. Jackson, a secretary, recalled as she stood in front of her house on 21st Street, just over the border from Newark. "We had all kinds of people living here: whites, blacks, Puerto Ricans. I thought it was a solid investment." 
 As she spoke one recent evening, Mrs. Jackson took in a Dresdenesque landscape of fire-blackened homes, collapsing front porches and trash-filled lots. Mrs. Jackson's house, sandwiched between two crumbling ruins, is the only occupied building on her side of the block.
"If I could sell this place, I'd be gone in a heartbeat," she said. "But who's going to want to live here?"
These days, not many. Irvington, a township of 59,000 people, has lost a tenth of its population since 1980 and 15 percent of its housing stock. In an era of long-running prosperity, when even Newark can crow about revival, Irvington remains a stubborn pocket of dread and instability.
A shrinking tax base and years of fiscal mismanagement have left the township insolvent, and it has been declared a "distressed city" by the state, a status qualifying it for emergency aid. Property taxes are so high -- among the highest in the state -- that scores of homeowners are walking away from their investments. While crime continues to decline elsewhere, Irvington now has the state's second-highest violent crime rate per capita, behind the shore resort of Seaside Heights. Last year there were 15 homicides within Irvington's 2.8 square miles, up from 9 in 1998.
With a mixture of envy and disgust, Mrs. Jackson pointed out the new crop of town houses rising down the street in Newark while the stately homes on her block rotted or fell prey to fires inadvertently started by squatting drug addicts. "I can't even get the city to clean up this trash," she said, gesturing to a mound of clothing and bricks and a broken toilet bowl on the sidewalk. "It's deplorable and it's breaking my heart."
Many residents blame the mayor and Township Council members for Irvington's problems, saying that these officials are more interested in internecine warfare than in governing. Others point to the overwhelmed police force, which has been accused of ignoring the drug dealing and prostitution that flourishes in many neighborhoods. And some say that Irvington is simply suffering from the aging infrastructure, crime and public indifference that have ravaged so much of urban America.
With its mix of prewar apartment buildings and rows of tightly packed two-family houses, Irvington long ago lost its appeal to home buyers who craved spacious lawns and more privacy. "Irvington is typical of a class of old bedroom communities tied to the state's vanished manufacturing economy," said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. "Its housing stock has become outmoded and obsolete. It's not going to be an easy future."
Irvington may have been dealt a bad hand, but state officials partly blame the local government for making Irvington's problems worse. In the last year, federal authorities have begun two investigations: one examining the Police Department's exclusive contract with a local towing company and another into the Irvington Board of Education, which has been mired in a case involving bribery charges against Kenneth A. Gibson, an engineering consultant who is a former mayor of Newark.
"I wish I could say things are looking up, but things are getting worse," said David Lyons, a member of the Township Council who is frequently at odds with his colleagues.
In what the state calls a typically bungled opportunity, the township removed its parking meters and did not replace them until more than three years later, depriving municipal coffers of nearly $1 million. Last year, $22 million of the township's $73 million budget came from Trenton, which is monitoring its finances. The mayor of Irvington, Sara B. Bost, who was first elected in 1994, did not respond to numerous telephone messages left at her office.
Irvington began its most precipitous decline after 1996, when the state forced it to reassess its property values, leading to a 30 percent tax increase. The higher taxes have been driving many working-class homeowners into foreclosure. These days the tax collection rate is less than 86 percent, a situation that makes taxes even higher for those who do pay.
The township, which is a month late with its state-mandated financial statement, has been without a business administrator and a financial officer since last spring.
"We have some very deep and ongoing concerns for Irvington," said Ulrich H. Steinberg Jr., director of the State Division of Local Government Services. "They need to step up their management and provide direction for recovery. Until now, they haven't been able to do that."
Real estate brokers complain of taxes so high -- an average of $4,000 a year for a single-family house -- that many prospective buyers will not even look at Irvington, despite its affordable housing and proximity to New York City and major highways.
"The drug situation gets worse day by day, the taxes are ridiculous and the services are nonexistent," said Arthur Rosa, president of Rosa Realty, which has several offices in and around Newark. "I've never seen a town deteriorate so quickly."
Still, officials say there are reasons for optimism. On a recent tour of Springfield Avenue, the township's main commercial strip, Janet Nunez, coordinator of an urban enterprise program, pointed out new trash cans, hanging flower baskets and a string of refurbished facades.
"As soon as there's a vacancy here, the space gets snapped up," she said, adding that the township's industrial zone is drawing new businesses. In the last four years, she said, 360 full-time jobs have been created in Irvington. "Things are really looking up," she said. "Right now we need to overcome the negative press."
But well-swept sidewalks and hanging geraniums cannot offset the sight of the empty police booth that sits at the center of town. Although the enterprise program spent $16,000 building the booth last year, the Police Department cannot afford to station an officer in it.
The police chief, Steven Palamara, said response time by the police lagged because his force of 163 officers had a dozen fewer officers than it had three decades ago, when there were 8,000 annual service calls. Last year there were 80,000. The increasing workload, he said, leaves little time for old-fashioned patrolling. Low-priority calls, including those that involve drug dealing and prostitution, receive scant attention, Chief Palamara added. "It gets wild here at night," he said apologetically, explaining that the police are often kept busy responding to emergency calls.
Paradoxically, the improving fortunes of Newark, he said, have been bad for Irvington. With a much larger force, the Newark police have unintentionally pushed crime across the border, he said. "We're like a small town, except we have big-city problems and a small town's resources," Chief Palamara said. But help will arrive in December, he said, with the addition of 26 officers, their salaries paid with state money.
Record crime seems to be on everyone's mind. Last year, Mayor Bost's home in the East Ward was sprayed by gunfire. Although at first she said the attack was in retaliation for her get-tough stance on crime, investigators say it is now believed to be the result of random gunplay between rival drug dealers.
It is in the East Ward that Irvington's desperation is on full display. Uriel Burwell, 27, who grew up just across the border in Newark, said the changes in Irvington have been numbing. "Irvington was one of those towns you didn't want to get caught in after dark," he said. "The police would lock you up just for crossing the line."
Mr. Burwell, who runs Standing Together Against Neighborhood Decay, a group serving a neighborhood that straddles the Irvington-Newark border, said there were 500 abandoned buildings on the Irvington side, at least 150 of them in immediate need of demolition. "Every day," he said, "someone else walks away from their home."
His group is using government grants and low-interest loans to build 35 houses in Newark. Until things get better on the Irvington side, he said, he does not hold any hope for a revival there.
Across town, on a tree-lined, well-manicured block, Elouise McDaniel was driving down Nesbit Terrace in her West Ward neighborhood and pointing out what she called early signs of encroaching blight: a half-painted house, an overgrown front lawn, a "for sale" sign that had been up far too long.
"These people refuse to maintain their property," Mrs. McDaniel, a retired Newark schoolteacher, said with indignation. The landscape a few blocks east seemed to bear out her fears: Colonial-style houses sealed with plywood, uncollected trash, knots of young men loitering about and a collection of go-go bars. (Irvington, she said, has 13 of them.)
As she drove, Mrs. McDaniel shook her head and recalled a time not long ago when these streets resembled tidy Nesbit Terrace. She spends most days writing letters to elected officials, organizing community meetings and pestering neighbors to clean up their yards. Selling her brick-faced split-level home is out of the question: she knows it would fetch less than what she paid for it 25 years ago.
"I wish I could just pick up my house and move it someplace else," she said. "But I'm stuck. The only thing left to do is fight."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The decay in Irvington, N.J., is most apparent in the East Ward, where vacant houses on some blocks seem to outnumber occupied ones. High taxes have driven many people away.; Above, Elouise McDaniel says blight is creeping into her tidy West Ward neighborhood. Right, David Lyons, on the Township Council, says things are getting worse. (Photographs by Don Standing for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Above, Springfield Avenue, the main commercial strip in Irvington, is showing some signs of revival. Left, many stately houses are now just burned-out hulks. (Photographs by Don Standing for The New York Times)(pg. B4)
 
Map of Newark highlighting Irvington: Irvington was once a suburban refuge from crime and decay in Newark. (pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: IRVINGTON BOARD (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRVINGTON BOARD (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRVINGTON (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CRIME AND CRIMINALS SUBURBS (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (67%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (62%); HOMICIDE (62%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (60%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW MARGARET JACKSON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000



266 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: MERTO BRIEFING

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
MANHATTAN: PARK SHOOTING REPORT INVESTIGATED -- Detectives are investigating a report by a man who said he was shot in the back while sitting on a bench in Central Park late Saturday night, the police said. The man, Troy Cupano, 33, of Somerset, N.J., arrived by cab at Mount Sinai Medical Center shortly before midnight Saturday. He had been shot once in the lower back with a small-caliber pistol, the police said. The authorities said he told detectives that he had been waiting for a friend near West Drive and West 100th Street when two men approached and fired one bullet. Mr. Cupano was in stable condition yesterday. C. J. Chivers (NYT) 

LAKE GEORGE: GASLIGHT VILLAGE GOES OUT -- One buyer paid $150 and ran away with the dish that ran away with the spoon. A Vermont couple paid $125,000 for a double-decker carousel made in Spain. In all, 430 pieces of nostalgia from the old Gaslight Village family amusement park here, including the dish lawn ornament and the carousel, sold for more than $1 million at an auction Saturday. Gaslight Village was opened in 1960 by Charles R. Wood in this lakeside resort 53 miles north of Albany. He closed it this year as part of a plan to build a civic center. (AP)
 
ALBANY: $750,000 FOR CONTAINER PORT -- Seeking to improve the local economy, Gov. George E. Pataki yesterday said the state would spend $750,000 to modify 2,000 feet of track this fall so barges from New York City can load shipping containers directly onto rail cars. Making Albany a barge-to-rail container port along the Hudson River would preserve 120 jobs and add 80 more by 2005, when the city could handle up to 24,000 containers annually, Mr. Pataki said. (AP)
 
ALBANY: FAMILY GROUP FAULTS AGENCY -- An advocacy group for poor families says the state is too quick to open and close investigations of child abuse. Two-thirds of the 145,500 abuse claims in 1998 were found to be unsubstantiated, while 40 percent of substantiated cases were closed the same day they were investigated, said the group, the State Communities Aid Association. The group called on the Child Protection Services division to develop a two-tiered response system, dispatching investigators to homes with potential for the most dangerous situations, and sending workers from social service agencies in other cases. Bill Van Slyke, a spokesman for the Office of Children and Family Services, which oversees Child Protection Services, said the agency was examining the group's findings. (AP)
 
NEW JERSEY
 
FAIRFIELD: KENNEDY PLANE AUCTIONED -- Maybe mourning has not yet turned to nostalgia. Or maybe it was what some call the Kennedy curse. The high bid of $120,000 for John F. Kennedy Jr.'s first plane was well short of the $300,000 figure that auctioneers at Essex County Airport had used as an opening bid on Saturday. Mr. Kennedy sold the 1977 Cessna Skylane in May 1999, two months before crashing a more advanced Piper Saratoga off Martha's Vineyard. A used-car dealer from Tulsa, Okla., Jonathan Knoerdel, will fly the Cessna home for $138,000, including an $18,000 auction fee, unless the seller, who is anonymous, rejects the bid, said Louis B. Fisher III, the auctioneer. Mr. Fisher said the infamous curse discouraged at least one bidder. "His wife didn't want him to buy it for that reason," he said. (NYT)
 
BRIGANTINE: GUARD JET ENGINE RECOVERED -- Work has begun to salvage the wreckage of a New Jersey Air National Guard jet that plunged into the Atlantic Ocean on Aug. 31 as people watched from the Atlantic City Boardwalk. The rear of the fuselage, the engine and the engine data recorder are among the parts recovered since the operation began on Saturday. The wreckage was discovered two days earlier in 35 feet of water about two miles east of here, said Maj. Roger Pharo, wing executive for the National Guard's 177th Fighter Wing. He said an accident investigation board convened by the Air Force could issue a report on the crash within six weeks. The pilot, who was praised by superiors for safely ditching the F-16C Falcon after the engine faltered, bailed out and sustained minor injuries. (NYT)
 
NEWARK: TWO MOTORCYCLISTS KILLED -- Two men riding motorcycles were killed on the New Jersey Turnpike after they drove off an elevated ramp and fell 33 feet, the state police said. The two men were traveling at "excessive speed" in Newark on Saturday night when they crashed through a guardrail on a ramp leading from the Newark Bay Extension to the turnpike at Exit 14, the police said. William Bouyea, 25, of Valley Stream, N.Y., died at the scene. Dwight Anthony Crooks, 27, of Brooklyn died at University Hospital in Newark, the police said. A third rider, Marshall Brown, 27, of Rochester, N.Y., who crashed but did not fall, was listed in stable condition at the hospital last night. (AP)
 
SOUTH BRUNSWICK: SOCCER PARENTS BRAWL -- A soccer game between teams of 8- and 9-year-old boys led to a brawl among a dozen parents and coaches over a tie-breaking shootout, the police said. The incident began when a coach from a Staten Island team argued that a coach of a regional team from northern Hunterdon County could not stand behind the goal during the shootout. The argument turned into a fistfight when parents and coaches joined in, said the police, who intervened before anyone was seriously hurt. No children were involved in the fight, and neither team was awarded a victory. (AP)
 
CONNECTICUT
 
CONNECTICUT: $270 MILLION UNCLAIMED -- Residents can use the Internet to see if any of $270 million in unclaimed assets held by the state is theirs. This morning, State Treasurer Denise Nappier will unveil a Web site -- www.nameitandclaimit.org -- listing 500,000 people who failed to claim cash, uncashed paychecks and other assets. These assets, found in bank accounts, with employers or in other places, are typically turned over to the Treasury after three years. For Spanish speakers, a phone line, (800) 618-3404, has been added for the same purpose. And on Wednesday, Connecticut's daily newspapers will carry ads showing 29,000 names added to the list this year, said Bernard Kavaler, a treasury spokesman. (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INVESTIGATIONS (92%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (88%); MARINE SHIPPING (88%); AUCTIONS (88%); CHILD WELFARE (88%); FAMILY (87%); CHILD ABUSE (85%); LAKES (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); FAMILY SERVICES (72%); POOR POPULATION (72%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (68%); CHILDREN (66%); TRAINS (63%); 

PERSON: EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (54%); EDDIE GEORGE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000



267 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1837 words

HEADLINE: Documents Portray Tire Debacle As a Story of Lost Opportunities

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 10

 BODY:
More than four years before Firestone gave the Ford Motor Company or federal regulators any hint of a problem with its tires for sport utility vehicles, the company's engineers had been alerted by the State of Arizona that the tires' treads tended to separate in hot weather.
More than two years before Firestone recalled the tires, its financial staff was aware of mounting warranty claims. Almost a year ago, most of Ford's management was told about deadly failures of Firestone tires on Ford Explorers overseas. 
 Yet little of this information appears to have made it into the hands of safety experts for Firestone or Ford. At the same time, personal injury lawyers across the United States were sharing information about dozens of deaths involving Ford Explorers equipped with Firestone tires -- but kept the information from federal regulators.
The story of the Firestone tire debacle, blamed for as many as 150 deaths around the world, is one of missed hints and lost opportunities, according to personal interviews and a review of more than 100 company and government documents, including many documents not previously reported.
Firestone and Ford officials each said they looked at routine measurements of safety problems -- warranty claims in Firestone's case, consumer complaints to regulators in Ford's -- and concluded that they did not have a problem. Yet each company had other data that, if checked, might have shown years ago that people were dying.
The tire debacle is also a story of questions that remain unresolved: Why do the tires fail? Why are all of the deaths in sport utility vehicles, mostly Ford Explorers, when some of the tires were installed on pickup trucks? Did Ford put customers' comfort, and the marketability of the vehicle, ahead of safety by choosing tires that would give a softer ride but might be more prone to failure?
Above all, why did Ford or Firestone not recognize sooner that while tire failures and rollovers were serious problems by themselves, the combination of the two would prove especially lethal? With another hearing in Congress scheduled on Tuesday -- and millions of recalled tires still on the road -- the pressure to find answers remains intense.
Early on, Firestone had more information about the extent of the problem than Ford, the documents showed, because it was Firestone's warranty that covered the tires. The tire maker, owned by Japan's Bridgestone Corporation, received more than 1,500 legal claims, many dating to at least 1997, for property damage, injuries and even some deaths resulting from failures among the 6.5 million tires now being recalled. It also had an increased number of requests from consumers to replace tires under warranty.
Yet in response to numerous inquiries from Ford beginning late in 1998, Firestone repeatedly gave the same answer that it and other tire makers had been giving plaintiffs' lawyers for years: Some tires inevitably fail, and the usual culprit is abuse by customers who do not inflate the tires properly or overload the vehicles.
Firestone's engineers took an unusual approach when they went to Venezuela to test suspect tires, according to a memorandum dated Aug. 9, 1999, by the company's manager of market quality engineering, identified as B. V. Halverson. "During the travel between cities, we drove at speeds up to 95 m.p.h. for extended periods of time," the memorandum said, one of dozens of documents coming out of an investigation led by Representative Billy Tauzin, Republican of Louisiana. No tires failed during the test, though government investigators in Venezuela have since attributed at least 46 deaths to crashes involving Firestone tires on Ford Explorers.
Firestone engineers occasionally checked tires in the field. But when Arizona complained in July 1996 that tires on state vehicles were losing treads in hot weather, Firestone blamed poor tire maintenance.
 Yoichiro Kaizaki, president of Bridgestone, acknowledged on Monday at a news conference in Tokyo that Bridgestone had not paid proper attention to quality control of its Firestone tires. He said the company would would begin applying the quality-control criteria used for its Bridgestone tires to Firestone tires.
 There had been dual standards within the company regarding problems with the two brands, he said. "The responsibility for the problem lies with Tokyo," he said.
The company relied heavily on its warranty information, which showed that while replacements under warranty increased in 1999 over 1998, the frequency of replacements remained fairly low. Firestone has insisted that its safety staff did not look at information on damage claims. Yet its financial staff was calculating that information annually, and even pinpointed by 1998 an increase in claims associated with the models now being recalled -- and particularly with tires from the Decatur, Ill., plant identified as having made the tires with the most problems.
By comparing the records of sales meetings with a confidential government report on Firestone tire production by serial code, it can be calculated that less than four-tenths of a percent of the recalled tires were replaced under warranty in 1998 and 1999. By a comparison, 17 percent of the tires were replaced under warranty in 1978 before Firestone's last major recall, of model 500 car tires. The earlier recall involved a similar number of tires, but fewer than half the 88 deaths under review in the investigation in the United States.
What Firestone appears to have missed is that sport utility vehicles require more reliable tires than cars, because they are more likely to roll over when they lose a tire, documents showed. The rollover issue goes virtually unmentioned in the Firestone documents, yet now the company cites it frequently, even noting that rollovers are an especially deadly kind of crash.
Federal regulations do not suggest that Firestone should have paid closer attention to sport utility tires. Sport utility vehicles have been regulated as light trucks since the late 1960's and face more lenient rules than cars.
A vehicle's ability to withstand crashes from the front, side and rear are regulated, because these are the main causes of deaths in cars. But a vehicle's tendency to roll over is not regulated by the government, though rollovers accounted for 62 percent of deaths in sport utility vehicles.
Federal regulators are now reviewing the rules covering tires and, after 27 years of studying the rollover issue, announced plans last spring to start rating a vehicle's tendency to roll over. Automakers and their allies in Congress are trying to block the ratings.
Among the documents distributed and then uncovered by Mr. Tauzin's investigators, the one that stands out as perhaps the most serious missed opportunity at Ford is a two-paragraph memorandum dated Sept. 15, 1999. Written by Carlos Mazzorin, Ford's group vice president for purchasing, it was addressed to Jacques Nasser, Ford's chief executive and president; Wayne Booker, vice chairman for international operations; and six vice presidents responsible for sales, manufacturing, quality control, vehicle engineering, Asian operations and public relations.
The memorandum described a problem with some Explorers in Saudi Arabia, Oman, Qatar and Venezuela. The tread sometimes separated from the rest of the tire when the vehicle was driven for long periods at high speeds, Mr. Mazzorin wrote. This had caused 19 rollovers and some deaths in the Middle East, where Ford had just recalled the tires, and an unspecified number of deaths in Venezuela.
But Mr. Mazzorin concluded with a statement that would prove wrong: "No known instances have occurred in other markets."
Two executives not on the memorandum's distribution list might have told Mr. Mazzorin that he was wrong, had they received the note and then checked records.
One was John M. Rintamaki, Ford's general counsel; the company had already been included in several lawsuits against Firestone. But Ford paid little attention, because automakers routinely face thousands of lawsuits after crashes.
Also missing from the distribution list was Helen O. Petrauskas, Ford's vice president for safety and environmental issues. Ford's safety engineers, who worked for Ms. Petrauskas, were aware of the rollover issue in sport utility vehicles.
Ford engineers had also paid attention to tires. In designing the Explorer, the engineers had rejected high-pressure tires like those on the rival Chevrolet Blazer -- which might have been less likely to lose their treads -- because they made the Explorer more likely to roll over. For the tires they did select, they recommended inflation pressures lower than for most other sport utility tires.
The New York Times reported on Friday that a computer analysis of federal data on fatal crashes showed that Explorers had a higher proportion of fatal crashes from tire problems than other sport utilities.
But memorandums indicated that as problems with Firestone tires surfaced overseas, Ford engineers, as did the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, looked mainly at other data: consumer complaints to the government agency's toll-free hotline. That data, it turns out, had a flaw: lawyers and their clients had virtually stopped reporting serious incidents with tires.
Lawyers suing tire makers had suffered a setback in February 1995, when regulators closed an investigation into Michelin tires despite 62 consumer complaints.
The safety agency decided that the tires were not defective and accepted Michelin's argument that consumers had overloaded or underinflated the tires -- the same argument that Firestone has made in fighting lawsuits over its tires now recalled. A ruling by a federal agency that a product is not defective usually makes lawsuits against the manufacturer more difficult.
Even as lawsuits against Firestone accumulated in the late 1990's, regulators received very few complaints from the public. Until they opened a preliminary inquiry on March 6, after a report on a Houston television station prompted several dozen complaints, there were no fatal incidents in their files.
Yet a tally released today by SafetyForum.com, a firm that coordinates lawsuits against auto and tire makers, found that lawyers had already sued Firestone, and sometimes Ford as well, in cases involving 22 deaths and 69 serious injuries by the end of 1998.
Ralph Hoar, the owner of SafetyForum.com, said lawyers had a responsibility to their clients, not regulators, and could not take the risk that if they did file enough complaints to prompt an investigation, regulators would rule that the Firestone tires were free from defects.
"The manufacturers use that as a sledgehammer in litigation," Mr. Hoar said.
A combination of problems appears to have made the Firestone tire failures especially deadly. But a combination of mistakes by everyone involved allowed the deadliness to go undetected for years. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 5108 (TSE) (98%); FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (98%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (98%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BRIDGESTONE CORP; FORD MOTOR CO BRIDGESTONE CORP (98%); FORD MOTOR CO (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRIDGESTONE CORP; FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA; UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (79%); ARIZONA, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TIRES; AUTOMOBILE SAFETY FEATURES AND DEFECTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LIABILITY FOR PRODUCTS; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; RECALLS AND BANS OF PRODUCTS MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); PRODUCT RECALLS (90%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); TIRE MFG (89%); TIRES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (78%); LAWYERS (76%); PRODUCT SAFETY (76%); PERSONAL INJURY (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); LITIGATION (69%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH DAVID FORD (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000



268 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: Low-Price, Highly Ambitious Digital Chip

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

 BODY:
Suddenly, the future of digital photography seems to be becoming much clearer.
Only two weeks ago, Eastman Kodak announced a chip able to capture digital images with a resolution of 4,096 by 4,096 picture elements -- or pixels -- per square inch. That, by some measures, is about twice the resolution of 35-millimeter film. 
 Today, a company founded by one of Silicon Valley's pioneer chip designers, will announce an image-sensing chip capable of the same resolution as the Kodak chip, but made using a technique that could be much less expensive.
Executives of the company, Foveon, said they had given a prototype camera based on their chip to a photographer in Los Angeles, Greg Gorman, who had used it to make a portrait of a cowboy. In that image, no pixels, or dots, were visible to the eye, even with the photograph blown up to a size of 8 feet by 4 feet.
Already, digital cameras being sold on the consumer market for less than $1,000 are rivaling 35-millimeter film cameras. Digital images of the clarity achieved with Foveon chip could begin to challenge even the much more expensive 4-by-5 film cameras made by companies like Hasselblad that are used by professional photographers for portraiture, advertising and fashion.
"We're headed to flat-out replace the film camera," said Carver Mead, the founder of Foveon, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif. Mr. Mead, a pioneer of the chip industry, became a Silicon Valley legend in the 1970's by helping develop techniques that for the first time enabled chip engineers to create circuits containing tens of thousands of transistors.
Industry analysts say that the new technologies could affect much more than still cameras. High-resolution images, if produced in quantities that made the new generation of image-sensing chips cost only several dollars apiece, could become a staple of cellular telephones and other hand-held devices and might bring the cost of a consumer video camera below $100.
And the contest is not only between film and digital sensors, but between two kinds of chip-making techniques. Foveon's planned announcement, coming on the heels of Kodak's, suggests a sharpening battle between the two competing manufacturing technologies at the heart of a billion-dollar market for digital photographic sensors.
The Foveon chip is based on a low-cost semiconductor industry technology known as Complementary Metal-Oxide Semiconductor, or CMOS (pronounced SEE-moss). The Kodak chip's sensor is based on a more expensive manufacturing technology known as Charged Coupled Device, or C.C.D. imaging.
C.C.D.'s now dominate the digital-imaging industry, but compared with CMOS devices, they require production and assembly of several chips and related components to combine the sensing and computing tasks that can be performed by a single CMOS chip.
Both companies' achievements have startled industry experts because the new devices move far beyond the current industry standards for CMOS and for C.C.D. cameras, which until now have been able to achieve resolutions of 6 million pixels a square inch. The Foveon and Kodak sensors can pack 16.8 million pixels into a square inch.
"If you asked someone if this was achievable in either technology two weeks ago, they would have said it was impossible," said Michael Berger, an industry analyst at Frost & Sullivan, a market research firm in San Antonio.
The Foveon announcement is seen as a personal triumph for Mr. Mead, 66, who is regarded by many executives and engineers as the father of the modern semiconductor industry.
"Carver has tapped into something enormous," said Alexis Gerard, president of Future Image Inc., a digital-imaging research and consulting firm in San Mateo, Calif. "When digital imaging and the telecommunications infrastructure converge, they will enable a shift from a text-based communication model to an image-based model."
Throughout his career Mr. Mead has explored the idea of duplicating the human senses, including vision and hearing, by using silicon-based chip technologies. Several years ago, his earlier work led to the development of a smaller and more effective hearing aid now sold by Sonic Innovations of Salt Lake City.
Complex chips first became feasible in the 1970's after Mr. Mead, at the time a professor at the California Institute of Technology, teamed up with a Xerox computer scientist named Lynn Conway to invent a technique for placing thousands of transistors on a chip -- a technique known as Very Large Scale Integrated Circuit, or VLSI design.
Today, CMOS-based manufacturing -- which is used to carry out VLSI design -- is employed by virtually all microprocessor and memory makers. As a result, it has become extremely cost-efficient and can yield circuitry with more transistors and lower power requirements than most competing technologies.
Yet despite their promise, CMOS-based sensors have until now had just a tiny impact on the overall market for digital imaging because they have been unable to achieve the resolution and clarity of C.C.D. sensors. The global market in 1999 for C.C.D. sensors was $959 million, compared with only $14.2 million for CMOS sensors, according to Frost & Sullivan.
But even before Foveon's latest achievement, CMOS was gaining ground. Not only have companies including Kodak and Polaroid begun to offer inexpensive, low-resolution CMOS-based cameras, but telecommunications giants like Nokia of Finland and NTT DoCoMo of Japan are planning to include inexpensive CMOS sensors in millions of their next-generation cellular phones.
Foveon's contribution has been to improve the quality of CMOS images by continuing to put more computer processing power behind the task of capturing the digital image. The new 16.8 million pixel device has seven active transistors for each pixel. The benefits include less interference, better focusing and more precise exposure times. "When the pixels get smarter," Mr. Mead said, "that translates into better image quality."
Foveon's principal investor and the company's technology partner is National Semiconductor, a big Silicon Valley chip maker.
 National Semiconductor's manufacturing plant in Santa Clara is capable of etching chip circuitry only 0.18 micron wide -- a microscopic fineness that few other chip makers can equal. By contrast, most current low-cost CMOS sensors are made with circuitry of 0.35 or 0.5 microns, which allows for millions fewer transistors per chip.
National Semiconductor executives said the company was planning to take the technology that Foveon had developed for the priciest reaches of the professional photography market and make it economical enough for some new consumer electronics.
"National's interest is not in thousands of cameras a year but in hundreds of millions of cameras a year," said Brian L. Halla, the company's president and chief executive. "We could make the world's highest-resolution throwaway digital camera and sell it for the price of a similar Kodak system."
Foveon officials said they would demonstrate the new 16.8 million pixel sensor for the first time today. The sensor, which for now captures images in black and white, has almost 70 million transistors -- or about two and a half times the number of transistors used by a Pentium III microprocessor chip for computers. Foveon says it expects the new sensor to be on the market within a year.
Currently, Foveon sells a high-end camera using an earlier version of its sensor that has a resolution of 2048 x 2048 pixels, or 4.19 million in all. That camera uses three separate sensors and a prism array to separate color information. But Mr. Halla said the company was also working on a technique that would permit a single chip to capture precise color information.
Despite the advances now being made, Mr. Mead acknowledged that digital-image sensors are still a long way from matching the skills of the human eye.
An eye is movable, which enables it to scan various parts of an image and then allow the brain to compose a single, larger image. The eye is also remarkably diverse: elements that have high resolution are clustered at the center of the field of vision, while sensing elements that function well at low light levels are around the periphery of the eye, giving human vision a great flexibility of range in varying light conditions that no artificial imaging system can yet match.
Mr. Mead said that because of fundamental size limits in the wavelengths of light, it is unlikely that future digital sensors will gain much additional resolution. Instead, shrinking semiconductor circuit sizes will make it possible for companies like Foveon to add more and more intelligence to their digital-imaging systems, perhaps simulating more of the image-enhancement functions of the human brain.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 2000, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Monday about a new digital camera chip made by Foveon misstated the type of film cameras that it might be able to challenge. Images made from the chip could one day be comparable to those made by so-called medium-format cameras, made by Hasselblad and others, which use film that is 6 by 6 centimeters. The chip images are not comparable to those made from film that is 4 by 5 inches, which produces a higher resolution. Hasselblad does not make a 4-by-5 camera.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Merrill, Faveon's senior scientist, beside a print of a cowboy taken using the company's new chip technology. The fine detail of an eyebrow, above, showing hairs without breaking up into dots, or pixels. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Foveon's chip shown with a prototype camera using the new technology. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. C10)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO; FOVEON CO; HASSELBLAD CO EASTMAN KODAK CO (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: EASTMAN KODAK CO; FOVEON CO; HASSELBLAD CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMPUTER CHIPS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET PHOTOGRAPHY (92%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (92%); COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ELECTRONICS DESIGN (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (61%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN; MEAD, CARVER

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000



269 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 2; Column 2; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Island Insect Trove Could Spur Revival of Mainland Populations

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN 

DATELINE: EDGARTOWN, Mass., Sept. 6

 BODY:
Ask people on Martha's Vineyard about insects and they are likely to talk about mosquitoes, no-see-ums and green-headed flies, all of which can make life miserable here. But the island's insect population comprises far more than pests. In fact, entomologists hope to use it to re-establish rare and endangered insect populations wiped out elsewhere in New England years ago.
This year, beach tiger beetles, tiny ivory insects with brown markings, were gathered on a stretch of private beach here and transported to Monomoy Island National Wildlife Refuge at the elbow of Cape Cod, where entomologists hope they have taken hold. 
 Next on the entomologists' list is the imperial moth, a yellow and brown insect once abundant throughout New England that was all but wiped out by DDT. Entomologists are studying it now, hoping to determine the best places to reintroduce it. After that, the scientists hope the Vineyard will provide still more moth species to repopulate their ancient New England habitats.
In all cases, said Tim Simmons, restoration ecologist for the Massachusetts Natural Heritage and Endangered Species Program, the idea is to identify past insect habitats that remain protected enough to enable transplants to survive.
The beach tiger beetle, only half an inch long but prized by collectors for its delicate spots and stripes and bright green abdomen, was eradicated from almost all of its New England range when four-wheel-drive vehicles began taking to the region's beaches. The beetle lays its eggs on the beach, and its larvae live in tubes the beetles dig in the sand -- no match for all-terrain vehicles.
Originally, entomologists planned to reintroduce the beetle to Monomoy last year, by digging larvae and transplanting them to beaches there. But when they went collecting, they discovered that the beetle's volatile population had declined, for reasons still uncertain. This year, the numbers were better, so the project went ahead.
Dr. Paul Goldstein, a biologist at the Field Museum in Chicago who is studying the state of Vineyard lepidoptera this summer along with ecologists at the Sheriff's Meadow Foundation, a major Vineyard conservation organization, said the work on the beetle was conducted by Dr. Phil Nothnagle, an entomologist who is an authority on it.
"He excavated about two dozen larvae, which is small for an insect population, but that's all we were comfortable taking," Dr. Goldstein said. He added: "Past experience shows introducing adults doesn't work. Either they don't find each other or they don't lay eggs."
Though it is too soon to say the effort is a success, Mr. Simmons said in a telephone interview that five adult beetles had already been spotted on Monomoy.
Widespread spraying of DDT did in the imperial moth, Mr. Simmons said. The moth, whose tan-spotted yellow wings stretch more than three inches, once ranged from Canada to Argentina, but now the only place in New England where it survives is Martha's Vineyard.
That the moth survives there is partly a legacy of the late Henry Beetle Hough, the longtime editor of The Vineyard Gazette and an ardent opponent of the use of insecticides, which he habitually referred to in editorials as "poison."
"The continued widespread use of poisons, particularly through aerial spraying, will lead to results that cannot be foreseen -- except that life, the indivisible wellspring of all life on earth, will never be the same again," Mr. Hough editorialized in 1958.
At his urging, residents of the island banded together to block widespread spraying, particularly of DDT. A few thousand Vineyard acres were sprayed, but only once, while elsewhere in New England hundreds of thousands of acres were routinely subjected to a fog of DDT and kerosene. As a result, species survive here that have vanished elsewhere in the Northeast, experts say.
Among them are the imperial moth and other moths that live in highly specialized habitats, like depressions called frost bottoms, that are also rare everywhere but the Vineyard.
Frost bottoms are a geological reminder of how Martha's Vineyard was formed more than 12,000 years ago as glaciers moved across New England, pushing rocks and soil before them. When they began to retreat, they left this material piled up in moraines, which gradually eroded and washed out to form sand plains. Much of Martha's Vineyard is formed of such sand plains. Glacial meltwater carved out the frost bottoms as it streamed south from moraines toward the sea.
Though frost bottoms may be only 20 or 30 feet lower than the surrounding landscape, Dr. Goldstein said, they can be much warmer during the day and colder at night; some can experience frost year-round.
Because few glacial outwash plains survive elsewhere, Martha's Vineyard's frost bottoms are extremely unusual.
The Vineyard is not the only source of endangered insects for repopulation efforts. For example, entomologists are using a small population of burying beetles on Block Island, R.I., in efforts to re-establish the species, whose range was once from Maine to Texas.
Dr. Goldstein concedes that the insects he and others are eager to re-establish probably have little economic importance, although, as with most endangered species, it is always possible that one or another will turn out to be a valuable source of drugs or other useful compounds. But as conservation becomes more sophisticated, he said, more attention is being paid to restoring as many of a conservation area's original inhabitants as possible.
Mr. Simmons put it almost the same way, speaking of the beach tiger beetle. "We suspect there are very few people who have ever experienced a wild beach that has all of its denizens," he said. "It's sort of a symbol of what's supposed to be."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The beach tiger beetle was a victim of four-wheel-drive vehicles. (Tim Simmons); Dick Johnson, left, executive director of the Sheriff's Meadow Foundation, a conservation group, and Dr. Paul Goldstein, a biologist, searched recently for endangered insects near Chilmark Pond on Martha's Vineyard. (Evan Richman for The New York Times); The once abundant imperial moth was all but wiped out by DDT. (Evan Richman for The New York Times)
 
Map of Massachusetts shows the location of the Monomoy National Wildlife Refuge

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD (MASS); NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: INSECTS INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (95%); ENTOMOLOGY (93%); BIOLOGY (91%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); MAMMALS (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); BEACHES (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); WILDLIFE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); INTERVIEWS (61%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (61%); 

PERSON: DEAN, CORNELIA PAUL GOLDSTEIN (60%); TIM SIMMONS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2000



270 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
AUSTRIA: SANCTIONS DECISION DUE
A decision on whether European Union partners will lift diplomatic sanctions against Austria is expected soon, according to France's European affairs minister, Pierre Moscovici. A European Commission panel said last week that continuing the sanctions would be counterproductive. Suzanne Daley (NYT) 

GERMANY: KOHL BACK TO POLITICS
After a 10-month absence, former Chancellor Helmut Kohl returned to a regular strategy session of his Christian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Mr. Kohl, who retained his seat in Parliament after being ousted as chancellor in 1998, skipped all meetings after admitting last year that he had accepted illegal campaign donations. At the session in the Reichstag building, two colleagues began clapping when he appeared, but quickly stopped when no one joined in. Victor Homola (NYT)
 
SWITZERLAND: LAND MINE CAMPAIGN
The global campaign to ban land mines is urging governments to take steps to pressure or isolate countries that have yet to sign the 1997 treaty banning the devices. Campaigners have been urging NATO members to refuse to take part in military actions involving use of land mines, and so far France and the Netherlands have indicated a willingness to do so. Delegates from 138 countries that have signed the pact are meeting in Geneva. Elizabeth Olson (NYT)
 
TURKEY: I.M.F. PROTEST
Small groups of students protesting the policies of the International Monetary Fund were detained by the police in Istanbul and the southern city of Adana. At the urging of the I.M.F., Turkey has been taking tough measures to cut inflation, and the possibility of harsher steps arose over the weekend. About 50 protesters were stopped as they approached the American Consulate in Istanbul. Douglas Frantz (NYT)
 
GREECE: BID TO BAR LESBIANS
A mayor on Lesbos has asked a district court to bar entry to 100 British lesbians, saying their tour operator falsely advertised his town as "a paradise of gay love." Mayor Polydoras Abatzis said the operator had damaged the reputation of Eressos, the legendary birthplace of Sappho. A ruling is expected today. Anthee Carassava (NYT)
 
ASIA
 
PHILIPPINES: NEW ABDUCTIONS, RAPE REPORTS
Armed gunmen kidnapped three people from a Malaysian diving resort and took them to the southern Philippines, where Muslim rebels are holding 19 people, including an American, Jeffrey Schilling, 24. Meanwhile, one of the four European hostages freed last weekend said that some of the female hostages released earlier had been raped by the rebels. He said the male hostages were unable to defend them. (Agence France-Presse)
 
AFRICA
 
BURUNDI: TUTSI PARTY SIGNS PACT
One of four holdout Tutsi political parties signed a power-sharing pact with the Hutu majority, two days before the deadline for joining a peace plan intended to end the country's seven-year civil war. The Social Democratic Party, citing last-minute changes, refused to sign the accord on Aug. 28 in Arusha, Tanzania, in the presence of international leaders including President Clinton. (AP)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
CANADA: HEALTH SPENDING
With elections expected by next spring, Prime Minister Jean Chretien offered to increase federal health spending transfers to provinces by 25 percent, or $15 billion, over the next five years. After heavy cuts in the late 1990's, Canadians now tell pollsters health care is their No. 1 concern. With a large surplus this year, Mr. Chretien would have a hard time winning an election without restoring funding to the national health system. James Brooke (NYT)
 
CANADA: RIGHTIST GAINS SEEN
The leaders of Canada's two right-wing parties faced voters in special elections expected to strengthen the voice of conservatives when Parliament reconvenes on Sept. 18. Stockwell Day, leader of the Canadian Alliance, is expected to win easily in British Columbia. Joe Clark, the Tories' leader, is also expected to win in Nova Scotia. James Brooke (NYT)
 
BARBADOS: STEMMING AIDS
Faced with the highest incidence of AIDS and H.I.V. infection outside sub-Saharan Africa, members of the Caribbean Community are meeting in Barbados for two days to try to develop a regional response to the disease. While Haiti and the Dominican Republic account for 85 percent of the H.I.V. and AIDS cases in the Caribbean, the virus is spreading in other countries. David Gonzalez (NYT)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAN: PROTESTERS JAILED
A court sentenced 24 people to prison terms of up to five years for their role in two days of rioting that erupted after elections in February, the official news agency said. The 24 were held in Khalkhal after the conservative Guardians Council annulled the results of the northwest town's vote, taking away the seat from the winning pro-reform candidate and gaving it to his conservative opponent. (Agence France-Presse)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); TURKEY (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); MALAYSIA (79%); GREECE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); AFRICA (79%); BURUNDI (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

CITY: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (51%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); TURKEY (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); MALAYSIA (79%); GREECE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); AFRICA (79%); BURUNDI (79%); ASIA (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); LANDMINES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); POLITICS (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); MAYORS (89%); HOSTAGE TAKING (87%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (84%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); CIVIL WAR (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); SEX OFFENSES (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); POLICE FORCES (52%); 

PERSON: HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (72%); HELMUT KOHL (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2000



271 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES;
The Euro Falls Below 86 cents; Lack of Intervention Cited

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The euro fell to still another low against the dollar yesterday as traders and investors concluded that the European Central Bank would not soon intervene in the markets to buy the currency and lend it support.
Finance ministers of the 11 nations that use the currency met on Friday and said that "a strong euro is in the interest of the euro area," though they did not outline any plans to revive its exchange value. Separately, Austria's finance minister, Karl-Heinz Grasser, said, "we're not talking about" intervention right now, "but we'd be ready to do it at the right time." 
 The statement by the 11 countries "wasn't seen as having teeth," said Paul Podolsky, a currency analyst at Fleet Global Markets in Boston. "People feel like there's no political will to support" the euro. Fleet lowered its forecast for the currency to 80 cents by the end of the year from a previous target of 85 cents.
In New York trading yesterday, the euro settled at 85.78 cents, down from 86.88 cents on Friday. It has lost 4.6 percent over the last week.
Steve Barrow, a currency strategist at Bear Stearns International in London, whose firm is also expecting a fall to the 80-cent area, said, "It's hard to expect any kind of statement to have a significant bearing when not backed up with real action."
The European Central Bank so far has not intervened to shore up the euro, down almost 27 percent against the dollar since it began trading at the start of 1999.
The French finance minister, Laurent Fabius, said European Central Bank members would watch the euro, and Christian Noyer, the central bank's vice president, remarked that "intervention is an instrument available at any time."
On Friday, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany predicted that the currency would rebound as economic growth in Europe strengthens. Backtracking from comments he made earlier that a weak currency promoted growth by increasing exports, Mr. Schroeder said he wanted "a strong currency."
Such disparate emphases did not impress people like Trevor Williams, senior economist at Lloyds TSB Bank in London. "Euro officials are sending conflicting signals," he said. "I don't think they'll intervene. It's not about fundamentals anymore. It's about the perception over which is the more successful economy. The U.S. is the best place to put your money."
In other trading yesterday, the dollar also surged against the British pound, which fell in New York to $1.4081 from $1.4194 on Friday. The French franc fell to a rate of 7.6479 to the dollar from 7.5515. The Canadian dollar eased to 67.59 cents from 67.70, and the weakened Australian dollar rose to 56.01 cents from 55.65.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since March 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); MEXICO (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN MONETARY UNION EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); JP MORGAN MARKETS LTD (55%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN MONETARY UNION EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); MEXICO (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EURO (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); EURO ZONE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); TRENDS (77%); BRITISH POUND (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2000



272 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: David E. Bell, Budget Director For Kennedy, Is Dead at 81

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
David Elliott Bell, who was President John F. Kennedy's director of the Bureau of the Budget and then his administrator of the Agency for International Development, died on Wednesday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 81.
The cause was leukemia, said his daughter, Susan Bell. 
 Mr. Bell taught population sciences and international health at Harvard from 1981 to 1988, when he retired from its faculty.
After previous budget experience in the Roosevelt and Truman administrations and after serving as administrative assistant to President Harry S. Truman from 1951 to 1953, Mr. Bell was budget director in 1961 and 1962.
Soon after Kennedy chose him for the post, in December 1960, Mr. Bell faced photographers and was asked to "make out like you're saying something; say 'One, two, three, four.' "
With a faint smile he chose a more budgeteer-size figure and declared, "Forty-five billion."
The journal Current Biography said in 1961, in a profile of Mr. Bell: "The post of budget director is recognized as one of the most responsible in the government. The bureau is the central point where all the far-flung federal programs meet, where estimates of needs and resources are studied and adjusted, and often where allocations of resources are decided."
In early 1961, when Kennedy was deliberating, at a meeting of experts, about how to expand the space program, Mr. Bell is said to have asked skeptically where the money would come from.
But in 1962, when Senator Paul H. Douglas, Democrat of Illinois, said at a hearing of the House-Senate Joint Economic Committee that he and many astronomers questioned the wisdom of spending billions to land a man on the moon, Mr. Bell defended the space program. He said there was no stunt involved.
In budget policy, he turned out to be neither tightfisted nor a free spender. He advocated using the budget to stimulate or restrain economic activity as the situation might warrant. He also dedicated himself to getting people to understand the role of the budget and the different ways of looking at it.
By late 1962, after about two years at the budget bureau, he had given the budget a new appearance and new concepts. He got federal agencies to engage in planning as they never had before. He strove to interweave the budget more closely with national economic policy. In addition, he greatly reduced the physical size of the printed budget, making it a volume that could fit into a reader's pocket.
Having been chosen by Kennedy to become in 1962 the chief of the country's foreign-aid agency -- a post that was called in those days the job nobody craves -- Mr. Bell took up his new duties, still in Washington, in December of that year.
By mid-1965, his dedication and modesty in running the Agency for International Development had brought him praise in the capital -- even from members of Congress, the scene of many skirmishes about foreign aid policy.
By mid-1963, he had come to be known among foreign-aid watchers in Washington as a quick study, an alert decision-maker and "the guy who can save this program if anyone can."
In an interview at that time, he said: "Fundamentally, A.I.D.'s purpose is national security. By national security, we also mean a world of independent nations capable of making economic and social progress through free institutions. Economically, we're not aiming for standards of living; we're aiming for internal dynamics, self-sustaining growth."
Under him, the agency put far more emphasis on planning concerning specific countries and on a firm awareness of America's national interest. "We have tried to apply a cold and realistic eye and to look several years ahead," Mr. Bell said in the interview.
He stepped down from the post in 1966.
From 1966 to 1980, he was variously a vice president and an executive vice president at the Ford Foundation, where he oversaw its international activities. He served concurrently for a time as a consultant to Frank Press, President Jimmy Carter's science adviser.
Mr. Bell was born in Jamestown, N.D., and received a bachelor's degree in 1939 from Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, and a master's degree in economics from Harvard.
He is survived by his wife, Mary Barry Bell, whom he married in 1943; a daughter, Susan Bell of Putney, Vt.; a son, Peter B., of Watertown, Mass.; a sister, Barbara Bell Dwiggins of San Luis Obispo, Calif; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Elliott Bell (Joe Wrinn/Harvard News Office, 1982) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEUKEMIA (72%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); 

PERSON: BELL, DAVID ELLIOTT; PACE, ERIC JOHN F KENNEDY (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2000



273 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: Montenegro Leaders Balk At Taking On Milosevic

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: PODGORICA, Montenegro, Sept. 7

 BODY:
The Clinton administration says it worries that President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia might move against Montenegro before or after the Yugoslav elections scheduled for Sept. 24.
But in the small republic itself, where Montenegro's president, Milo Djukanovic, has decided to boycott the elections, there is less concern. The current situation seems to serve both Mr. Milosevic and Mr. Djukanovic fine, with the boycott protecting the Montenegrin's political base while effectively handing Mr. Milosevic control over the new federal Parliament. 
 Mr. Djukanovic, a Milosevic understudy who broke with the master and turned toward the West in 1997, spurned efforts by Washington to get him to take part.
He argued that his coalition, optimistically named For a Better Life, might break apart, and that to have the vote would legitimize constitutional changes that Mr. Milosevic rammed through without consulting Montenegro, Serbia's sister republic in what remains of Yugoslavia.
Mr. Djukanovic also rejected an American proposal that he run candidates for the federal Parliament -- even if they vowed not to serve -- to deny Mr. Milosevic an easy victory. "I think Djukanovic is afraid of a vote," one American diplomat said. "He's putting his own interests in Montenegro ahead of the larger interest, which is to defeat Milosevic."
In fact, says Drasko Djuranovic, the editor of the independent weekly Monitor, Mr. Djukanovic is betting on Mr. Milosevic's remaining in power, which he hopes will produce an independent Montenegro in the next few years -- the same bet being made by Kosovo's Albanian leaders.
If Mr. Milosevic is beaten by the candidate of Serbia's democratic opposition, Vojislav Kostunica, it will be harder to get Western support for the further breakup of Yugoslavia.
"If Kostunica wins, he will offer a decent deal to Montenegro," said Zoran Predic, an editor with the private television station Elmag. "If Milosevic disappears, the world's interest in Milo Djukanovic will also disappear."
For his part, Mr. Milosevic "doesn't need a war after the elections, but a better position for negotiations with the West," suggested Ranko Krivokapic, a leader of an independence-minded party in Mr. Djukanovic's coalition. "He may use Montenegro as a bargaining chip."
If the point of the early election is to give Mr. Milosevic new legitimacy, Mr. Krivokapic noted, he would be foolish to throw it away again by moving openly against Montenegro. Still, "this is the Balkans and everything is possible," Mr. Krivokapic said. "Milosevic could need a crisis, even before the election, and he could decide to do something in just a few days. Everything is prepared for various options."
There is much talk here of the Seventh Battalion of the Yugoslav Army, some 700 men who seem more like paramilitaries and who, it is thought, could help provoke civil strife, providing a pretext for the overthrow of Mr. Djukanovic without bringing about an overt Western military response.
Slobodan Milic, an adviser to President Djukanovic, said Mr. Milosevic "could seem completely clean" and say: "It's those crazy Montenegrins. We haven't sent a tank or a plane, so let me see what I can do."
Mr. Predic, from the independent television station, said the problem was that "a significant minority here is fanatically pro-Milosevic, and another part that hates him wants to stay with Yugoslavia."
A referendum for independence remains too risky, said Mr. Djuranovic, the newspaper editor. "Here in the Balkans the question isn't the opinion of the majority," he said. "It's what the minority with guns will do, when they have the support of another country."
While Mr. Djukanovic's government has officially discouraged the state media from reporting on the campaign, the president is allowing Montenegrins to vote in the election, trying to avoid an open conflict with the 35 to 40 percent of the population that favors unity with Serbia. Nor is Mr. Djukanovic pressing for an early referendum on Montenegrin independence.
Prime Minister Filip Vujanovic is accustomed to dancing around the question. "We need to be very patient and careful, and a referendum should be taken as a last resort," he said in an interview. But if Mr. Milosevic wins, as Mr. Vujanovic is convinced he will, by manipulation if necessary, "he will continue his destructive approach to Montenegro," he said. "That's why if he's elected, in the next four years Montenegro will be at one point forced to ask the citizens for their answer in a referendum. But it's not our political decision to do it immediately."
"He won't willingly leave office," Mr. Vujanovic said of Mr. Milosevic, "and then the Serbian people and the international community must work to push him out."
But not everybody in Montenegro is so against Mr. Milosevic. In Herceg Novi, a coastal town that voted out Mr. Djukanovic's coalition in local elections this summer, opting instead for the pro-Belgrade Socialist People's Party, there is skepticism about Mr. Djukanovic's real aims.
"They want to get the names of the people who vote in the election, because every vote is like a vote to keep Yugoslavia together," said Jovan, a man of 50 who intends to vote, but for the Serbian opposition candidate, Mr. Kostunica. "I worry about my pension."
Montenegro is divided, and Mr. Djukanovic's party and coalition are divided, said Zeljko Ivanovic, editor of the independent daily Vijesti. "It's why Milosevic can sit and laugh. Whatever he's done to Montenegro, they just issue a statement."
But Mr. Djukanovic wants independence, Mr. Ivanovic said: "It's clear. He needs to be able to say, 'With Milosevic still in Serbia, we have no other option.' "
In the main, Mr. Djukanovic is simply being prudent, trying not to give Belgrade a pretext to provoke a civil war. In the meantime, Montenegro is building the institutions of statehood, including a banking system and an army.
Besides the presence of the Yugoslav Army, pressure from Belgrade includes a blockade of trade, which cuts off Montenegro from Serbia's price-controlled food and other products and forces it to try to export abroad.
Montenegro's turn to the German mark as its currency has protected it from the fall of the Yugoslav dinar, but it has also made prices more expensive and led to louder grumbling from the many unemployed in this republic of just 650,000 people. Not all of the jobless can work in Montenegro's black and gray economy, where smuggling goods to and from Italy is a way of life.
There are so many stolen cars in Montenegro -- or cars bought cheaply in Europe and driven here, then declared stolen by their owners -- that the joke goes: "Come and visit Montenegro. We have your car here waiting for you."
Montenegro's limbo as a quasi-state -- an independently minded part of Yugoslavia -- has meant that it cannot get direct aid from the World Bank or the International Monetary Fund. But because it is perceived as a bulwark against Belgrade, Montenegro does get millions of dollars in government aid from Europe and the United States to cover its budget deficit.
As many as half of Montenegro's salaried workers are paid by the state, including the regular and special police forces, with their new Land Rovers, who number up to 30,000 men and have been built up, in part by trainers from Western armies, to counter the Yugoslav Army.
There is little international oversight of how the foreign money is spent, said Arne Jan Flolo of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Everyone agrees that the privatization of government-run enterprises is anything but transparent or clean.
There is currently a fight within the governing party over a fuzzy contract with the French hotel chain Accor to manage Montenegro's nicest seaside hotels.
One huge aluminum plant, with all of its associated industries, represents half of Montenegro's gross domestic product, and much of the profit goes to a Swiss holding company that provided needed credits in 1998 -- a contract that Washington and the aluminum company itself are quietly trying to cancel.
"Corruption is a time bomb ticking under the Djukanovic government," Mr. Flolo said. "But the West doesn't want to hear about it. The international community is making a big mistake by not attaching conditions to its aid."
Nebojsa Medojevic, an economist, is a Djukanovic critic. "The line here is that if you criticize Djukanovic you help Milosevic. It creates space for manipulation and is an excellent pretext to postpone any real economic reform. The problem is that the international community supports Djukanovic without reservation, despite dirty privatization and corruption."
Mr. Flolo said: "There are free and fair elections here, but there is little transparency of decision-making. There is democracy from a distance, but you dig and there's a long way to go."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Children played near pro-Milosevic grafitti in Podgorica. Montenegro's prime minister, Filip Vujanovic, left, and president, Milo Djukanovic, are not seeking an independence vote now. Nor are they trying hard to defeat Mr. Milovesic in coming elections. (Photographs by Andrew Testa for The New York Times)
 
Map of Yugoslavia shows location of Montenegro: Montenegro is Serbia's smaller sister republic in Yugoslavia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MONTENEGRO (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (97%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; MONTENEGRO; MONTENEGRO (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (97%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BOYCOTTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); POLITICS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%); 

PERSON: DJUKANOVIC, MILO (PRES); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); ERLANGER, STEVEN HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2000



274 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Undoing the Damage of the Wen Ho Lee Case

BYLINE: By James Lilley; James Lilley is a former ambassador to China and a former senior officer for the Central Intelligence Agency.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The case of Wen Ho Lee is coming to an end, with the government backing off on virtually all the accusations against him. But the underlying problems of the case are unlikely to disappear once it is resolved, and the government must rethink how it deals with the central conflict between democratic principles and national security.
Chinese-Americans were quite right to raise alarms about ethnic profiling in weapons laboratories. The accusations of racism and ethnic targeting of foreign-born scientists have poisoned the atmosphere at the National Security Agency and the national laboratories, including Los Alamos and Lawrence Livermore. Asian-Americans have been leaving the labs, partly because of higher salaries offered elsewhere, but also because they are worried about discrimination and heavy-handed new security measures. 
 But in our laudable effort to avoid racial profiling, we must not damage our national security by painting a benign picture of China's espionage techniques. It is an established fact that China tries to recruit ethnic Chinese in the United States, particularly those who may be vulnerable to seduction, payoffs, appeals to nationalism and, in some cases, coercion. A 361-page book put out by China's intelligence office in 1991, and obtained by the Far Eastern Economic Review, described how China maintains a thorough system of gathering intelligence abroad for military purposes, aimed primarily at the United States. Representative Christopher Cox updated this information in his 1999 report on China's espionage efforts. In the spy business, targeting ethnic groups is widespread; the Soviets went after Russian emigres for years.
Nicholas Eftimiades in his 1994 book "Chinese Intelligence Operations" describes China's efforts to collect technology -- information on night-vision equipment, blueprints for F-14 fighter aircraft -- from ethnic Chinese agents in the United States.
China has been accused of recruiting agents in a number of cases. In 1985, Larry Wu-Tai Chin, a C.I.A. analyst, was charged with passing secrets to the Chinese Government for 40 years (he committed suicide in jail). Peter Lee, an American scientist at TRW, was accused of passing submarine detection technology to China. Federal prosecutors in Los Angeles said they wanted to charge Mr. Lee with espionage but were unable to, partly because Navy officials in Washington would not allow testimony about the technology in an open court.
Moreover, the Cox report states that Johnny Chung, a Chinese-American at the center of the campaign finance affair involving the Democratic Party, was given $300,000 by two Chinese military officials in a purported attempt to acquire American technology and to help the Democratic National Committee.
Of course, the fact that China tries to recruit spies doesn't mean that Chinese-Americans as a group should be suspect. When Mr. Cox released his report, he said the Energy Department had demonized Wen Ho Lee, and his study did not mention the Los Alamos scientist.
To catch any spy requires good investigative work. Chinese intelligence methods are complex and arcane, and special skills and experience are needed to detect them. What seems to be missing on our side is the painstaking, timely investigative use of wiretaps, computer access, independent surveillance and informers.
Instead the government prematurely leveled a lengthy indictment at Wen Ho Lee, Chinese-Americans have been harassed, and evidence has disappeared. What is needed to regain trust among Asian-Americans are fair, scrupulous and professional investigations; we cannot allow poorly handled cases to alienate a segment of our population. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (99%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (57%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (57%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (99%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CHINESE-AMERICANS; DISCRIMINATION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ESPIONAGE (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TEST LABORATORIES (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); ETHNICITY (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); RACIAL PROFILING (76%); NAVIES (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); SONAR SYSTEMS (75%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (70%); TESTIMONY (67%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (65%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (60%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: LILLEY, JAMES R; LEE, WEN HO CHRISTOPHER COX (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2000



275 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: The Peace That's Within Our Grasp

BYLINE: By Robert Wright; Robert Wright, a visiting scholar at the University of Pennsylvania, is the author of "The Moral Animal" and "Nonzero: The Logic of Human Destiny."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
United Nations meetings are famous for accomplishing nothing concrete, and some observers have cited last week's millennium forum as a prime example. Still, Secretary General Kofi Annan could rightly claim that he gained a measure of support for one of his most ambitious and controversial proposals: that the United Nations regularly intervene in civil wars when the human stakes are high. President Clinton came as close as he has come to endorsing the idea, and other leaders embraced, in vaguer terms, a toughened U.N. role in imploding states.
Supporters of Mr. Annan's idea sometimes argue that intervening in intrastate conflict is no great departure from the U.N.'s founding doctrines -- that the Charter of 1945 leaves plenty of room for reaching inside a nation to stop slaughter or the widespread abuse of human rights. As Mr. Annan himself put it when he unveiled the idea last year, "Nothing in the Charter precludes a recognition that there are rights beyond borders." Maybe not, but for practical purposes this sentence comes pretty close: "Nothing contained in the present Charter shall authorize the United Nations to intervene in matters which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of any state." 
 As an unabashed one-worlder, I don't mean to say that the United Nations should never intervene in a civil war, or that there is no conceivable legal basis for doing so. The Charter is a sometimes ambiguous document, and, rather as the United States Supreme Court ultimately decides what the Constitution means, the Security Council decides what qualifies as a threat to "international peace and security" -- the threshold that justifies the use of force.
But the fact remains that the United Nations was designed to stop war between nations, not within them. Those who want a systematic broadening of this mandate would do well first to ponder the logic behind the more modest aims of the organization's founders. Otherwise, they could wind up further damaging its perilously low credibility.
One virtue of the founders' focus on interstate conflict is the relative ease of assigning blame: any nation that violates another nation's border is subject to collective retaliation. Sometimes, to be sure, identifying the bad guys in internal conflicts is similarly simple. (When men are hacking off the arms of children, raping women and looting homes, that's a clue.) But often things are murkier. So the consistent punishment of transgressors is even harder in intrastate wars than in interstate wars.
Of course, actually administering the punishment is no picnic in either case. But, with interstate wars, it has gotten easier. The evolution of "smart" weapons, by letting an advanced military force wreak massive damage while sustaining little, has lowered a longstanding barrier to fulfilling the United Nations' mission: the reluctance of even right-minded nations to risk lives when their territory isn't immediately threatened.
These smart bombs and missiles are much less valuable in the usual internal conflict. Witness their mixed record in the Kosovo intervention. Yes, they brought Slobodan Milosevic to his knees by decimating Serbia's infrastructure. But they had little effect in Kosovo itself, where the enemy possessed no distinct, sizable territory and no fixed industrial base -- where, in short, the enemy resembled the enemy in many intrastate wars.
The United Nations Charter's focus on interstate war was due partly to political reality: the need to get the Charter signed in the first place. It is one thing for a nation to agree not to fight another nation except in self-defense. It is another thing to agree that, should internal rebellion arise, the government's response will be subject to Security Council approval. This tension persists. Nations that face internal turmoil -- Russia, for example -- may not back the United Nations in halting transborder aggression if they consider a strong U.N. a threat within their borders.
Of course, the main reason the founders of the United Nations focused on interstate conflict was their memory of the immediate past: four years of horrendous world war. But they were also moved by images of the future: a nuclear world, in which war among nations could make World War II look like a dustup. It is easy to forget, especially in good economic times, that we still live in such a world.
The good news is that reaching the essential goal of the United Nations -- collective action to stop cross-border wars -- is more practical now than during the cold war. The rollback of Iraqi aggression in the Persian Gulf war, explicitly authorized by Security Council vote, showed as much. Still, even this challenge is hardly mastered. Mr. Milosevic's orchestration of savagery in Bosnia was technically a case of transborder aggression, since Bosnia had gained its sovereignty and joined the United Nations, but his campaign met no forceful international resistance for years.
If world leaders want the United Nations to address intrastate conflict seriously, that's fine with me. But they should brace themselves. This will involve, for starters, a standing United Nations army (perhaps an all-volunteer army, to make casualties politically tolerable at the national level). It will involve not just "peacekeeping," but peacemaking -- deciding who the bad guys are and then killing them until a white flag appears.
Finally, it will involve picking fights carefully. To define a goal of suppressing all intrastate war is, for both political and military reasons, hopelessly unrealistic, a recipe for the further loss of United Nations credibility. And credibility could be crucial when it comes time to perform the original mission -- to prevent or halt transborder aggression in, say, the now-nuclear South Asia.
"Humanitarian intervention" is the name for U.N. involvement in intrastate wars. But preventing interstate war is also humanitarian. The founding, thoroughly humanitarian insight of the United Nations is that, in a nuclear world, ending war between nations is job one. Today -- when, for the first time in history, that goal may be reachable -- it would be a shame to lose sight of it.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Henning Wagenbreth)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); 

PERSON: WRIGHT, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2000



276 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: Group Founded by Sun Myung Moon Preaches Sexual Abstinence in China

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 11

 BODY:
For several years now, a small New York-based foundation has aggressively spread its conservative message in China: sex before marriage is immoral, fidelity in marriage is essential and abstinence is the only way to prevent AIDS.
Offering free seminars and workshops, the International Educational Foundation has been warmly embraced by a range of conservative Chinese officials distressed about their country's slide toward sexual freedom. 
 In partnership with a government health education institute, the foundation has now worked in every province, and its Beijing office is in a Health Ministry building.
But in many ways the foundation is a strange bedfellow for the Communist Chinese government, which has been waging an especially harsh campaign against evangelical religious groups and spiritual movements.
The International Educational Foundation was started by the ardently anti-Communist Rev. Sun Myung Moon, the South Korean founder of the Unification Church. Its headquarters is in the church's main building in Manhattan. And its leaders are prominent members of the Unification Church.
"Many Chinese officials are very conservative, and those that support the ideas being taught by the foundation don't worry too much about what else is behind it," said Qiu Renzong, a specialist in medical ethics at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences who has criticized the group for undermining China's AIDS prevention effort.
Critics of the group say many Chinese supporters -- for the most part loyal Communists and atheists -- are only dimly aware of the foundation's religious roots or what the Unification Church represents. Mr. Moon has said he is a messiah who at age 16 was asked by Jesus to continue his divine work; he says he and his wife are the "true parents" of church members, and he prefers to personally select their spouses.
But in China as in the United States, Moon-affiliated groups have consistently succeeded in promoting their conservative social agenda in even the most hostile environments, generally by tapping into the fears of local conservatives and forming alliances with them.
Playing down religion and their links to the Moon organization, the foundation uses its deep pockets to support a number of conservative social causes, and local allies tend not to ask too many questions.
Zhu Qi, a Chinese health official who has sponsored the foundation's work in China, said he was aware that it was a "church-affiliated group," although he said he was unsure which church it represented. He added that the group was "welcome, so long as they weren't doing missionary work."
"It's true that it's very unusual for Chinese organizations to cooperate with foreign religious groups," he said. "But I think the reason we can cooperate is that their Christian values are in line with traditional Chinese values. Also, they have a degree of economic strength."
This summer, the Chicago school board discovered that a similar Moon-affiliated group, the Pure Love Alliance, had been given permission by inner-city principals to teach its abstinence-only curriculum in classrooms. The chancellor of the Chicago public schools angrily banned the group when its links to the Moon organization were discovered.
Though acknowledging their ties with Mr. Moon, the foundation's leaders emphasize that their focus is on "actualizing virtues that are universal, like respectability and honesty," not on promoting religious dogma, said Alan Saunders, who is based in New York. Mr. Saunders said the group was independent from the church, supporting itself through its business ventures and donations. He added that Mr. Moon financed only large conferences.
"Many people who work with us are not Unificationists," Mr. Saunders said. "In Russia we're in 5,000 schools. Most of the teachers do not have the Unificationist perspective, so we're not endorsing religiousity."
But critics in China complain that the foundation has misled people, presenting second-rate science to promote a health policy based on conservative values rather than research. They say the group's focus on abstinence undercuts the fight against AIDS in China.
The foundation's lecture material denies that condoms can prevent pregnancy, transmission of H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, or other sexually transmitted diseases. And lecturers tell students that there is no such thing as "safe sex."
"When H.I.V. was spreading province by province through China, the Chinese government spent a lot of time working with religious groups to use morality to defend the people against AIDS," said Wan Yanhai, who runs a Chinese Web site about H.I.V. and recently co-authored a report called "The Foreign Shepherd," about the International Educational Foundation's work in China.
Others criticize the group for obscuring its religious background and particularly its ties to the Unification Church, a far-flung group with a controversial history, hundreds of intertwined businesses and some unconventional religious beliefs.
"I think most Chinese don't have a good idea of what this group is, even if they have heard it's the Unification Church," said Er Yan, the other author of "The Foreign Shepherd," who is also the general coordinator of the Chinese Society for the Study of Sexual Minorities. "They portray Mr. Moon as just another respected religious leader."
Mr. Er and others worry that the Moon organization is using the seminars to promote its own goals at the expense of sound health policy. Former members of the Unification Church say Mr. Moon has long wanted to gain a foothold in China.
"The group has a 30-year track record of using lots of money to gain access to high political positions," said Steven Hassan, a former senior member of the church who has since become one of its critics. "They create a front group, offer lots of money, set up conferences. And inveigle their way into whatever can be inveigled."
Although the foundation's teaching materials and lectures focus on secular virtues, the vocabulary and practices of the Unification Church creep into the curriculum -- with occasional references to the "true parents" (Mr. Moon and his wife) and ceremonies in which foundation teachers perform mass blessings of marriages. The International Education Foundation, with offices in New York, London, Moscow and Beijing, says it has operations in more than a dozen countries, although its Web site focuses mostly on the former Soviet Union, Mongolia and China.
The Moon organization has been cultivating ties to China since the early 1990's. The foundation itself first came to China in 1994, Dr. Zhu said. Today, with Dr. Zhu's help, the foundation generally works directly with local government bureaus across China to set up seminars on abstinence and chastity.
Foreign groups are not allowed to operate in China without a local partner, and the Moon group tends to work with socially conservative Chinese bureaucrats, generally associated with the Education or the Propaganda Ministry or with the All China Women's Federation. They see the growing number of liberal, often Western-trained health officials as the enemy.
The group has apparently helped overcome any misgivings with cash.
Researchers at the All China Women's Federation, who said they were aware of the group's ties with the Unification Church, said the foundation often lavished money and other perquisites on officials and cash-poor local governments.
Mid-level officials and, sometimes, their children have been treated to trips abroad to attend conferences, a rare opportunity for most Chinese college students.
This spring, the foundation flew more than 100 Chinese students to a seminar at the University of Bridgeport, in Connecticut, which is owned by the Unification Church. Mr. Er, the co-author of "The Foreign Shepherd," said it was an offer that many Chinese couldn't refuse.
"Even if they don't believe in the message," he said, "they see it as a free trip for their kids."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A meeting in China held by the International Education Foundation, begun by the Rev. Sun Myung Moon, as shown on the group's Web site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS493120 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (52%); SIC4222 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (52%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION; FALUN GONG (SPIRITUAL MOVEMENT) MOON ORGANISATION (52%); INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION; FALUN GONG (SPIRITUAL MOVEMENT) INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGIOUS CULTS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; SEX; ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; FREEDOM OF RELIGION RELIGION (94%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); CULTS & SECTS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (76%); ETHICS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); MEDICAL ETHICS (51%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH; MOON, SUN MYUNG (REV); SUN MYUNG MOON (REV) MYUNG MOON PREACHES SEXUAL ABSTINENCE (93%); ALAN SAUNDERS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2000



277 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
Iraq Prohibits Entry Of U.N. Analysts
Secretary General Kofi Annan told the Security Council that Iraq would not allow independent experts into the country to assess the living conditions of Iraqis a decade after economic sanctions were imposed. In a report to the Council, Mr. Annan also said Iraq was barring another group of experts that he had wanted to send to devise ways to improve an oil-for-food program. A1 

Meeting on West Africa
Secretary General Kofi Annan met with officials of nine West African countries to coordinate efforts to resolve the crisis in Sierra Leone created by an insurgency and to defuse tensions between Guinea and Liberia, members of a regional group. The meeting came as the United Nations prepared to expand the Sierra Leone peacekeeping mission. A3
 
European Fuel Price Protests
More than 1,000 gasoline stations across Britain were forced to close as groups of protesters, furious at high fuel prices, blockaded oil refineries, cutting off fuel deliveries and sending consumers rushing to the pumps to fill up their cars before the gasoline ran out. The protests by truck drivers, farm workers and taxi drivers were echoed by protests in Belgium, where truck drivers paralyzed the center of Brussels. A3
 
New Details on Mideast Talks
Senior Clinton Administration officials provided details of a critical 90-minute meeting between the president and the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, in Manhattan last week that was intended to aid the badly flagging Middle East peace talks. Yesterday, Mr. Arafat flew to Egypt for a 90-minute meeting with President Hosni Mubarak that appeared to confirm the generally gloomy forecasts for the new talks. A6
 
Russia's New Champion
Russians glowed with pride over Marat Safin's victory at the United States Open, the first time that title has been held by a Russian. The acclaim comes even though he is an ethnic Tatar, a people often derided in Russia as Attila the Hun's henchmen, and even though he and his family left Russia four years ago to live in Spain. A6
 
New Yorker's Trial to Resume
The civilian retrial of Lori Berenson, an American jailed in Peru on charges of collaborating with leftist guerrillas in a plot to attack Congress, will resume tomorrow, her new lawyer said. She was convicted by a military court in 1996. (Reuters)
 
World Briefing A5
 
ARTS E1-8
 
Opera Going Hollywood
Placido Domingo, the new artistic director of the Los Angeles Opera, said that George Lucas's special effects company, Industrial Light and Magic, would design a version of "The Ring" and that filmmakers would be asked to stage some operas. E1
 
NATIONAL A16-24
 
U.S. Says Young Are Target Of Violent Entertainment
The Federal Trade Commission said the vast majority of the best-selling restricted movies, music and video games were deliberately marketed for children as young as 12. The commission chairman, Robert Pitofsky, was careful not to blame violent entertainment for the violence in society, though he allowed that exposure to violent materials "does seem to correlate with aggressive attitudes, insensitivity to violence and an exaggerated view of how much violence occurs in the world." A1
 
Snag in Plea Agreement
A last-minute dispute between prosecutors and defense lawyers over the terms of a plea agreement delayed until at least tomorrow the release of the former Los Alamos scientist Wen Ho Lee, who has agreed to plead guilty to a single count of improperly downloading secret information. A18
 
The plea agreement leaves unresolved an eight-year inquiry into how China obtained secret information on an advanced nuclear warhead. A1
 
U.S. Computer Security Flaws
More than a quarter of the government's major agencies failed a computer security review by the Government Accounting Office. A21
 
Study of Federal Death Penalty
A Justice Department review of the federal death penalty since its reinstatement in 1988 found disparities by race and geography in how United States attorneys handled death penalty cases. More than half the cases involved African-American defendants and only a handful of the 93 United States attorneys account for nearly half of all capital cases. A18
 
Dispute Over G.O.P. Ad
The word "RATS," a fragment of the phrase "bureaucrats decide," pops up in a frame of a Republican television commercial that assails Vice President Al Gore's proposal for a Medicare prescription benefit. The ad's producer asserted that what appeared to critics to be an effort to deliver a subliminal message had been "purely accidental." A1
 
Gov. George W. Bush told an elderly audience that his plans for Medicare and prescription benefits would give them control of their health care, while Mr. Gore's would give them "a government-run H.M.O." A23
 
The board of the N.R.A. declined to endorse Mr. Bush for president. Officials said members feared that Democrats would use the gun group's endorsement to attack Mr. Bush. A23
 
Mr. Gore appeared on "Oprah" and portrayed himself to its largely female audience as a sensitive and devoted family man. A22
 
U.S. Health Official Leaving
Nancy-Ann Min DeParle, the administrator of the agency that runs Medicare and Medicaid, is resigning on Oct. 1 to take a temporary job teaching at Harvard University. A24
 
Call for a Police Monitor
The Los Angeles Police Department needs more aggressive independent review and a permanent special prosecutor to investigate misconduct, according to a report commissioned by the police union. A21
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-9
 
Olympics in New York City? Boosters Make Their Pitch
NYC 2012, the committee organized to entice the Olympics to New York City in 2012, unveils its proposed venues for the Games today, presenting a list of almost 30 sites reaching from New Jersey to Long Island and including all five boroughs. The two largest projects would be an Olympic Stadium above the Long Island Rail Road yards on the West Side of Manhattan and a village for athletes along the East River in Queens. B1
 
Politics and Real Estate
The Manhattan Borough Board granted permission to Bhutan to buy a Midtown Manhattan townhouse for its United Nations mission, ending a three-year dispute that focused on the human rights record of the Buddhist kingdom in the Himalayas. B1
 
Senate Hopeful on Education
Representative Rick A. Lazio proposed spending $97.75 billion on education over 10 years, with substantial parts devoted to disabled students and programs to make teachers more accountable. B1
 
Mayor Giuliani faulted Mr. Lazio for having enthusiastically shaken the hand of Yasir Arafat in 1998. B6
 
Morning Show Off the Air
Fans and even some advertisers protested the decision to end the "Rambling With Gambling" morning talk show on WOR-AM radio. B3
 
OBITUARIES B9-10
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-12
 
Extinction for Human Relative
Scientists say Miss Waldron's red colobus, a member of the primate order, the taxonomic group to which humans belong, has become extinct, the first such occurrence among primates in several centuries. A24
 
AIDS Theory Not Supported
Tests fail to support a theory that the AIDS epidemic began with an experimental oral polio vaccine used in Africa more than 40 years ago that was made from chimpanzee tissue, scientists reported in London. A12
 
Health & Fitness F7
 
EDUCATION 
 
College Aid Plan
California enacted a financial aid plan that guarantees needy high school students with good grades grants for full tuition at the state's public colleges and universities or nearly $10,000 a year for tuition at private institutions in the state. A16
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-28
 
Ford Engine Problem
Ford documents show that an array of company officials were aware of problems with a computerized ignition system that would shut car engines down if they got too hot. At the time, top company executives asserted to customers who complained about stalls and to regulators that there was no way to know what was causing the problem. A1
 
Procuring Parts Online
Federal antitrust regulators approved the establishment of an online venture, Covisint, that would let Ford, G.M., DaimlerChrysler, Nissan and Renault buy supplies through a single Internet portal. C1
 
Options Exchanges Censured
Federal regulators said the four major options exchanges agreed for years to restrain competition by not seeking to trade options already traded on other exchanges. C1
 
Home Heating Oil Price Rise
The price of home heating oil surged to a 10-year high, $1.0498 a gallon, up 5.49 cents, or 5.5 percent, as traders discounted the effect of a decision over the weekend by OPEC to increase crude oil production. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
FASHION B11
 
SPORTS D1-10
 
Jets Come Back to Win
Vinny Testaverde threw two fourth quarter touchdown passes to Wayne Chrebet and the Jets defeated the Patriots, 20-19. D1
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: Unworthy pandering by Mr. Gore; a vanishing security case; tribulations and triumphs in sports; choices for the New York primary.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Crossword E8
TV Listings E7
Public Lives B2
Weather D9 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAQ (94%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); BELGIUM (87%); SPAIN (79%); LIBERIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GUINEA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAQ (94%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); BELGIUM (87%); SPAIN (79%); LIBERIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GUINEA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); FILM (84%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); GAS STATIONS (76%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); TRUCK DRIVERS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (68%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (65%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (63%); VISUAL ARTISTS (63%); SPECIAL EFFECTS (63%); LAWYERS (62%); MILITARY OFFENSES (60%); POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (60%); MILITARY COURTS (60%); MUSIC (60%); FARM LABOR (54%); 

PERSON: GEORGE LUCAS (50%); HOSNI MUBARAK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2000



278 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Congressman Gets Help Of President

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

DATELINE: DANBURY, Conn., Sept. 11

 BODY:
President Clinton attended a fund-raiser and political rally here today to support the re-election campaign of Representative James H. Maloney, hoping to tip the scales in a tight Congressional race that has drawn intense interest from both major parties nationally.
In a rematch of the 1998 campaign, Mr. Maloney, a two-term incumbent Democrat, is being challenged by Mark Nielsen, a Republican lawyer and former state legislator. Two years ago, Mr. Nielsen came within 2,400 votes of unseating Mr. Maloney in one of the country's closest races. 
 At a luncheon that raised more than $200,000 for the Maloney campaign and at the rally later on the campus of Western Connecticut State University here, Mr. Clinton warmly embraced Mr. Maloney, presenting him as part of a Democratic package for continued prosperity.
"You need Al Gore, Joe Lieberman and Jim Maloney," he told more than 3,000 people who filled an outdoor amphitheater for the rally. Mr. Clinton, who campaigned earlier in the day in Westchester County for his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, in the New York Senate race, also included her in that package.
"Thanks for the Hillary sign back there," he told someone in the Danbury crowd as he prepared to leave the stage. "If you get to New York, help her." After the rally, Mr. Clinton went to New York City to attend three more events, including a fund-raiser for Representative Anthony Weiner, a Brooklyn Democrat.
Both major parties believe they can win the race in Connecticut's Fifth Congressional District, and Mr. Clinton's arrival came just three days after Dick Cheney, the Republican vice presidential nominee, was at a campaign event at a Shelton, Conn., housing complex for the elderly.
But the president's warm endorsement of Mr. Maloney today contrasted starkly with the icy treatment that Mr. Nielsen received on Friday from Mr. Cheney after the Nielsen campaign unveiled a new advertisement presenting Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Mr. Cheney's opponent, as a model of integrity in public office.
The commercial, which also showed former President Bush and Senator John McCain of Arizona, sought to portray Mr. Maloney as dishonest by referring to the 1997 conviction of his brother, Robert Maloney, on charges of violating federal campaign finance laws. The advertisement accused Mr. Maloney of letting "his brother take the fall."
While Mr. Clinton posed for pictures today with his arm around Mr. Maloney and worked the crowds with him side by side, Mr. Cheney not only did not mention Mr. Nielsen in his speech on Friday but did not even acknowledge his presence, declining even to shake the fellow Republican's hand.
By contrast, Mr. Clinton told more than 700 guests at today's luncheon: "This is a good man representing you in the United States Congress. He deserves to be re-elected." Mr. Clinton twice reminded the crowd of the close margin in 1998, urging them to be active in the campaign.
In going on the campaign trail today, Mr. Clinton touched on the major themes of the Democratic national ticket, emphasizing the economy, health care, education and the environment. He also engaged in what is becoming his familiar routine about not being on the ballot.
"My family has a new candidate, my party has a new leader and I have become the cheerleader in chief," he told the lunch crowd. "And I like it." But he seemed eager as ever to work the crowds, stopping with Mr. Maloney on the route between events to shake hands with voters outside a supermarket.
For Danbury, a city of approximately 65,000 near the New York border, Mr. Clinton's visit was a major event. Over and over, local officials repeated that no sitting president had made a real visit to Danbury since Theodore Roosevelt stopped in town in 1905.
Hundreds of people lined the streets for a glimpse of the president's motorcade, many waving American flags and snapping pictures. At times, the day's events seemed as much for Mr. Clinton as for Mr. Maloney.
"Thank you, Mr. President, because we in Danbury are better off than we were eight years ago," Mayor Gene F. Eriquez said at the rally. "Mr. President, this is your legacy, eight years of prosperity and progress here in the city of Danbury." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) NEW YORK SENATE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) NEW YORK SENATE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MALONEY, JAMES H (REPR) BILL CLINTON (92%); DICK CHENEY (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); JOE LIEBERMAN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); GEORGE H W BUSH (59%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2000



279 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1899 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Put Olympics In New York Draws Fire;
Site for 2012 Games Outlined by Backers, Including City Hall

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

 BODY:
Call them delirious, but if organizers of the effort to bring the Olympics here get their way, 12 years from now New Yorkers might pass the month of September traipsing to beach volleyball along the East River, taking in dressage on Staten Island or cheering triathletes swimming a mile around the Central Park Reservoir. That's right, the Reservoir.
NYC 2012, as the committee hoping to entice the Olympics is called, unveils its proposed venues for the Games today, presenting a list of almost 30 sites reaching from New Jersey to Long Island and running through all five boroughs. 
 Slalom canoeing through white water? In Queens. The pentathlon? In the Bronx. Fencing, table tennis and weight lifting? Try the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan.
While existing facilities could be used to stage most of the Games, the proposal details major new construction. The two largest projects would be an Olympic Stadium rising above the Long Island Rail Road yards on the West Side of Manhattan and a village for athletes along the East River in Queens.
Other proposals include building things like a bicycling velodrome in Queens, a small new sports arena along the Brooklyn waterfront and an Olympic-size pool for water polo in the Bronx.
"One of the real benefits of hosting the Olympics is the enormous legacy of athletic facilities," said Daniel L. Doctoroff, 42, an investment banker who dreamed up the idea and is now president of NYC 2012.
With the world anticipating the opening of the 2000 Games in Sydney this Friday, the 2012 Games might seem a lifetime away. But the eight American cities seeking the games that year have to present their initial, huge proposals -- New York's should run some 600 pages -- to the United States Olympic Committee in December. The proposal has to include plans for everything from construction financing to how horses for the equestrian events will enter the country.
Opponents, just getting their first look at the plans, are already grumbling about the project's scale. But the idea is being embraced by sports fans, various professional teams, investment banks, media companies and real estate developers. The biggest cheerleaders, however, are undoubtedly in City Hall.
"I can't think of a better place for the Olympics," said Deputy Mayor Anthony P. Coles. "It seems like a natural fit. It would be very valuable to New York because the Olympics could serve as a catalyst for development for large areas of the city."
Although only sketchy information about the proposals has been available to date, the war drums have started beating among various other politicians, community boards and neighborhood groups sensing they should fight the effort.
They are calling it the biggest land grab since Robert Moses reshaped the city. They say it would allow private real estate developers to gorge at the public trough. They argue that New York can barely handle the visitors it already gets and that the added construction would just push the city to a lower level of hell.
Claire Shulman, the Queens borough president, puts her position succinctly: "Over my dead body."
She opposes the idea that as-yet unspecified private developers will build the Olympic Village housing 15,000 athletes and coaches at Queens West, a 73-acre stretch across the East River from the United Nations. The 4,400 units would then be sold or rented on the local market.
"There is no way that is going to happen," she said. "Sure it would be nice to have the Olympics, but they are not going to take the best housing site in the city of New York to build dormitories."
The borough president noted that the Games are too far in the future to tie up that land while the city faces a chronic housing shortage, and said that the organizers would have to think again if they believed they could override plans already in the works to construct residential buildings and housing for the elderly at the site. She also objected to their idea of reconfiguring the separate lakes in Flushing Meadows Park, the site of the 1964 World's Fair, to hold the rowing and canoeing events.
"They come in here with their arrogance and think they are just going to move things around," she said. "What do they think we are, peasants?"
The central organizing principle behind the plan is that all Olympic events be held along a rough X, with one leg running from the New Jersey Meadowlands (basketball and soccer) to the Nassau Coliseum (handball) and the other leg from Staten Island (bicycling and equestrian) to the Bronx (baseball, shooting and water polo).
Given that the biggest headache would probably be moving athletes and spectators through the sclerotic arteries known as New York's roadways, the X was conceived with the water and railroad tracks in mind.
"Using fast ferries and dedicated trains, the athletes would virtually never have to go on a New York City road to get to one of their events," Mr. Doctoroff said.
Aside from the stadium and the athletes' housing, other new facilities include a pool for water polo at Orchard Beach in the Bronx, a waterfront velodrome on the East River in Queens, a new park north of the Williamsburg Bridge for archery and a new marina at Gateway National Recreation Area in Queens. (The full list of sites should be available at www.nyc2012.com this afternoon.)
The United States Olympic Committee will decide which city to nominate by 2002, and then the International Olympic Committee will take three years to name its choice from around the globe. The other cities competing are Dallas, Houston, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Cincinnati, Tampa and the Washington-Baltimore area.
In Manhattan, the biggest construction project would be the stadium. No stadium in the metropolitan area is large enough to hold the track and field events, Mr. Doctoroff said.
Mayor Giuliani has promoted a West Side stadium previously either as a new home for the Yankees or for professional football. The owners of the Yankees are represented on the advisory board for the Olympics, and the owner of the Jets football team, Robert Wood Johnson IV, has said he plans to leave Giants Stadium when the team's lease expires in 2008.
Some residents of Hell's Kitchen and Chelsea suspect the whole Olympics plan might just be a Trojan horse for a stadium that the public would otherwise reject.
"A stadium is usually built to help revitalize that part of a city," said Ross Graham, chairwoman of the South Hell's Kitchen planning committee. "There isn't anywhere in Manhattan that needs revitalization; it's all booming."
Mr. Doctoroff disagrees. "It would be unfair to say the entire Olympic effort is just a ruse for the stadium," he said.
City Hall also rejects such criticism. "People didn't want Lincoln Center either and look at the change that has made to the west side of Manhattan," Mr. Coles said.
Both noted that the Olympics would be an economic bonanza for the city. It would generate an estimated $10 billion, according to NYC 2012.
But the community board that covers the West Side fired the first shot against the Olympics on Sept. 7 with a letter to various state and local politicians objecting to any stadium. But the letter did not single out the Olympics directly.
"We want to be careful because the Olympics are mom and apple pie and no one wants to attack the athletes," said John Fisher, a community advocate. "But the whole issue of the Olympics is somewhat a lot of blue smoke obfuscating what is really going on. It is not about the Olympics; it is about opening up the entire section between 30th and 42nd to make it a new Midtown."
Residents say any stadium would further snarl traffic and open the way for unbridled development of commercial skyscrapers. Instead, they want more of a residential feel.
They also suspect that public money will be spent on things that largely benefit the developers, like an extension of the No. 7 subway line from Times Square to the new stadium.
Although the NYC 2012 plan does say that the infrastructure and other improvements could stimulate the development of "Midtown West," developers deny assertions that that is their primary motivation for supporting the effort.
Andrew Tisch, the president of Loews Corporation, which builds hotels in the city, said his company was a major donor because the Olympics would, among other things, provide new recreational facilities and revitalize the East River waterfront.
"Our donation to NYC 2012 has no relationship to potential hotels," he said in a written statement.
NYC 2012 has raised $5.6 million for the organizing effort thus far from about 20 major corporations who were asked to pledge $150,000 to $500,000 over a three-year period. Donors include large investment banks like Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers; Continental Airlines, Time Warner and the city's three major daily newspapers, including The New York Times Company.
Mr. Doctoroff said that money for constructing new sports facilities would all be raised privately, most of it through the sale of television rights that would generate some $1.1 billion for the city. The total amount raised from things like ticket sales and licensing should reach $3.2 billion. With the Games costing $1.9 billion to run, that leaves $1.3 billion to spend on building venues.
But opponents complain that there is no way such a giant undertaking could be done without tying up public money. As one example, they point to the extension of the 7 line, which would cost hundreds of millions of dollars. Mr. Coles argues that ways could be found to finance the subway extension line through taxes.
One factor in all of this, of course, is who is running the city. Mr. Giuliani will be done as mayor at the end of next year, and there is no guarantee that his successor will love the idea. Ms. Shulman's term also expires then.
But Mr. Doctoroff is sure that New York will prevail. "If I didn't believe we are going to win, I wouldn't be wasting my time," he said.
 
Olympic Building
The organizers of New York City's Olympics bid hope to use many existing stadiums and buildings for the 2012 Summer Olympics. But the organizers say that some new structures would have to be built:
 
* The Olympic Stadium would be built over the Long Island Rail Road train yard in Manhattan, south of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center.

* Queens West, the Olympics village, would be built along the East River waterfront between Newtown Creek and 45th Road and consist of 4,400 housing units in town houses and apartment buildings. After the games, the units could be converted to conventional housing.
 
* A swimming pool would be built at Orchard Beach in the Bronx for the modern pentathlon and water polo.
 
* An arena for track cycling and badminton would be built on what is now private property south of the Queensboro Bridge, along the East River in Queens.
 
* Competitions for archery and beach volleyball would take place in a new waterfront park just north of the Williamsburg Bridge, on what is now private property in Brooklyn.
 
* A structure for indoor volleyball would be built on what is now private property along the waterfront in Brooklyn, east of the Manhattan Bridge.
 
* Sailing events would be held at a marina to be constructed in Breezy Point, Queens.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 2000, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about plans to lure the Olympic Games to New York City in 2012 referred incorrectly to the schedule for the Games that year. They will be held from July 27 to Aug. 12, not in September.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The logo for NYC 2012, the New York organizing committee.
 
Chart: "Let the Games Begin"
The organizers looking to bring the 2012 Summer Olympics to New York City hope to place most of the events along ferry and rail routes that would cross at an Olympic Village housing the athletes in Queens.
 
Map shows New York and New Jersey highlighting proposed sites of Olympic sporting events. (pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: NYC 2012; LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (56%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (93%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (93%); CITY OF HOPE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NYC 2012; LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (93%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (93%); CITY OF HOPE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; LONG ISLAND (NY); ; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES; OLYMPIC GAMES (2012); SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS); STADIUMS AND ARENAS OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (89%); ATHLETES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); CITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (88%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); HORSES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); RIVERS (77%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (77%); SWIMMING (77%); WATER POLO (77%); CHEERLEADING (77%); WATER SPORTS (77%); CITY LIFE (75%); MAYORS (75%); POLITICS (74%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (73%); SPORTS FANS (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); TRACK & FIELD (73%); CYCLING (73%); WEIGHTLIFTING (69%); INVESTMENT BANKING (65%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (65%); 

PERSON: MACFARQUHAR, NEIL

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2000



280 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
Bush Gives No Quarter

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
George W. Bush has lately taken to explaining his economic plans by pulling out four dollar bills to represent the projected budget surplus. Two dollars, he explains, will be used to support Social Security; one to pay for new programs like prescription drug insurance; and one will be used to cut taxes. "I think it's fair, I think it's right that one quarter of the surplus go back to the people who pay the bills," he declared last week.
Nice rhetorical device; too bad about the arithmetic. An honest presentation, using numbers from Mr. Bush's own economists, would allocate not $1 but $1.40 to tax cuts, only 45 cents to new programs -- and would admit that he got 25 of those 45 cents by violating his own party's promise not to touch either the Social Security or Medicare surpluses. 
 I am not making this up. The Congressional Budget Office projects a surplus over the next decade, including Medicare and Social Security, of $4.6 trillion. As I pointed out last month, this is unrealistically optimistic, but never mind. One quarter of that surplus is $1.15 trillion. Meanwhile, Mr. Bush's economists concede that his tax plan will reduce the surplus by $1.6 trillion. So representing the cost of the tax cut by just one of those four dollar bills is a $450 billion misstatement.
And on the other side, Mr. Bush's proposed spending on new programs is far lower than that other dollar bill would suggest -- about 10 percent of the surplus, not 25 percent. Indeed, some of Mr. Bush's penny-pinching comes as a shock. With all his huffing and puffing about America's military decline, who would have thought that he proposes to increase defense spending by less than 2 percent?
Clearly, Mr. Bush remains convinced that he can play by his own rules -- that it doesn't matter whether what he says is true, as long as he lays on the charm. But the story of the bogus bills also reminds us just how bad an idea that tax cut -- originally offered, say the political reporters, to ward off Steve Forbes -- really is.
After all, Mr. Bush's routine with the dollar bills isn't just a piece of stagecraft. It's his way of saying that there's plenty of money to play with: that he can secure the future of retirees, give a big tax cut and still have plenty left over -- one dollar out of four! -- for popular new programs. But that just isn't so, as Mr. Bush's own plan demonstrates.
Suppose that we agree (as both parties have) that tax cuts and new spending should not cut into the Social Security and Medicare surpluses -- the surpluses those trust funds are now running to prepare for the demographic deluge, the time when baby boomers stop paying in and start collecting benefits. That, even using those unrealistic surplus projections, immediately takes $2.40 of Mr. Bush's four dollars off the table, leaving at most $1.60 to be divided between tax cuts and new spending. And a prudent plan would set aside a good part of that $1.60, both because the surplus projections are probably too optimistic and because our current peace and prosperity aren't guaranteed to last.
But Mr. Bush has already promised to give away $1.40 in tax cuts. What that leaves him for new spending is not the whole dollar he waves at his audiences, but at most 20 cents.
And that isn't enough. Now that Mr. Bush has caved on the issue of prescription drug insurance -- though he still claims that he can get it at bargain prices -- the additional spending proposed in his plan amounts to about 45 cents out of his four dollars.
How does he find the extra 25 cents? Through selective absent-mindedness. Congressional Republicans have solemnly pledged to put both Social Security and Medicare in "lock boxes," that is, not to count their surpluses as available funds. But while Mr. Bush's number-crunchers ostentatiously put the Social Security surplus aside, Medicare somehow goes unmentioned.
The bottom line is that because of that tax cut, Mr. Bush's economic plan cannot be both coherent and honest -- and in fact it is neither.
So what is Mr. Bush thinking as he stands up there with those dollars in his hands? Does he know that he is saying things that aren't so? Or is he so unfamiliar with his own economic plan that he thinks he is telling the truth? Either way, shame on him. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); MEDICARE (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (57%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (57%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); KRUGMAN, PAUL GEORGE W BUSH (86%); PAUL KRUGMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



281 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE EURO RISES. The euro rose after the president of the European Central Bank said the currency did not reflect prospects for economic growth in Europe. In New York, the euro settled at 86.29 cents, down from 85.78 cents.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since April 1999. It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EURO (92%); CURRENCIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); TRENDS (86%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



282 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Wavering Senators Feeling Pressure on China Trade Bill

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12

 BODY:
Corporate leaders and several of President Clinton's cabinet officers intensified pressure today on wavering senators to reject an amendment that could jeopardize passage this year of a trade bill with China.
As the Senate girds for a crucial vote on the measure this week, supporters of legislation to establish permanent normal trading relations with China are pressing for a bill free of amendments. Those supporters say there is not enough time before Election Day to reconcile an amended Senate bill with the version that the House passed in May. 
 At a White House meeting with Congressional leaders today, Mr. Clinton urged speedy approval of an unamended bill. The measure is one of his top remaining foreign policy goals and a necessary step for American companies to benefit fully from a deal reached last year by the United States and China that paves the way for China's entry into the World Trade Organization. That 135-member trade group sets rules for global commerce.
At issue is an amendment sponsored by Senators Fred Thompson, Republican of Tennessee, and Robert G. Torricelli, Democrat of New Jersey, that would impose sanctions on Chinese companies if they were caught exporting nuclear, chemical or biological weapons or long-range missiles.
Defense Secretary William S. Cohen; Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers; Mr. Clinton's national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger; and the United States trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, began telephoning senators today, arguing that the amendment would not only imperil the trade bill, but would also actually hamper American efforts to combat the spread of sophisticated weaponry.
Senate aides negotiated the timing of votes. Senators could take up Mr. Thompson's amendment on Wednesday or Thursday. Final passage of the overall bill, which has overwhelming support, could occur as early as Friday or as late as next Tuesday.
China will enter the W.T.O. no matter how the Senate votes. But without Congress's blessing, Beijing could withhold some of the trade benefits, including lower tariffs, from the American farmers and companies that it will extend to other members in the trade group.
Thomas J. Donohue, president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, warned of retribution against senators who support the Thompson-Torricelli measure.
"Should this vote get tangled up in the politics of nuclear proliferation and other amendments to the extent that it might not be passed," Mr. Donohue said, "I think that would have a very serious political implication for those who were a party to that action."
Senators easily dispatched several other amendments today, including those on prison labor and human rights in China, as well as subsidies from Beijing to Chinese companies. But on the floor and in news conferences, the focus was on the Thompson-Torricelli amendment. "This is the vote on P.N.T.R.," Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana said as he used the bill's abbreviation.
Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, stated that opponents "have the votes to defeat Senator Thompson's amendment."
Even Mr. Thompson acknowledged that he faced an uphill battle. "We've always known it was going to be a tough vote," Mr. Thompson told reporters. "A lot of people are saying they would like to vote for it. But since it is on P.N.T.R., they're afraid it will complicate P.N.T.R."
Supporters said the measure was necessary to clamp down on Chinese exports of sophisticated weaponry to Iran, Libya, North Korea and Pakistan.
"What is especially troubling about the Chinese activities is that this sensitive assistance is going to the most dangerous nations in the most volatile areas of the world," said Mr. Torricelli.
Backers of the amendment scoffed at fears that amending the bill would doom the larger bill this year. "To say we cannot amend a bill that has been passed by the House would be the height of irresponsibility," said Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas.
But amendment critics, including farm-state Republicans, said it was senseless to jeopardize a trade bill that would lower barriers to China's vast markets. "Approval for this bill will keep the United States economically and diplomatically engaged with one-fifth of the world's population," said Senator Pat Roberts, Republican of Kansas. "I cannot support a redundant and counterproductive amendment that would effectively kill this legislation." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ARMS SALES ABROAD; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); APPROVALS (77%); ARMS TRADE (77%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (71%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (71%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); PRISONS (65%); PRISON INDUSTRIES (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SCHMITT, ERIC; TORRICELLI, ROBERT G (SEN); THOMPSON, FRED (SEN) BILL CLINTON (91%); GLENN THOMPSON (79%); FRED THOMPSON (79%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



283 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Forswears Force Over Iraq Inspections

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE with STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 12

 BODY:
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said today that the United States would not use force to make Iraq allow the resumption of international arms inspections.
Dr. Albright, speaking with reporters after a speech to the opening session of the General Assembly, said there were still other "red lines" that Iraq would risk attack by crossing. "We do not want to see them reconstitute their weapons of mass destruction," she said, "and we don't want them to take action against the Kurds, and we don't want them to threaten the neighborhood." 
 But as for restarting arms inspections, Dr. Albright said, only President Saddam Hussein "can pick up the key to let himself out of the sanctions box." She said Iraq had to allow a new inspection commission under Hans Blix, a Swedish arms control expert, to start work; otherwise, the sanctions imposed in 1990 after the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait would never be lifted.
Speaking to the General Assembly today, Dr. Albright urged member nations to "stand up to the campaign launched by Baghdad against the U.N.'s authority and international law."
"We must continue to do all we can to ease the hardships faced by Iraq's people," she said. "But we must also defend the integrity of this institution, our security and international law."
In answering questions from reporters, Dr. Albright said twice that force was not the answer to getting cooperation from President Hussein on arms inspections.
Her statements signaled both to Iraq and to Council members that the United States would not raise the possibility of American force as the United Nations waits for the Iraqis to admit the new inspectors, who have been trained and are ready to go. That could come as a relief not only to Iraq, but also to those nations who say American threats can only complicate dealings with Mr. Hussein.
"I think that basically we have made it clear that it is essential for Baghdad to live up to its obligations, and we are opposed to it, using force," she said. "We have our red lines, and we have made those quite clear, and I think it is very important that somehow Saddam Hussein gets the message that he is the one out of step with the rest of the members."
Dr. Albright's remarks underscored the evolution in the administration's policy toward the use of force against Iraq. In December 1998, the United States and Britain conducted four nights of air strikes to punish Mr. Hussein's government for its refusal to cooperate with the previous team of inspectors. Since then, the administration has grown increasingly reluctant to consider force, even though some intelligence reports have noted worrisome signs that Iraq's weapons programs have continued.
In Washington, officials said the use of force -- even the threat -- would undercut efforts to maintain an international consensus on keeping sanctions in place as long as Mr. Hussein resists new inspections. One official said the administration was prepared to accept Iraq's continued intransigence because that supports the American case.
"What we have said is, we're not ready to use force to get the inspectors into Iraq," an administration official said today. "That is not saying -- if we have any evidence he's trying to reconstitute weapons of mass destructions -- that we're not prepared to act."
In recent weeks, there has been a heightened sense of concern at the Pentagon and elsewhere in Washington that Iraq might be preparing to cross one of the "red lines" Dr. Albright spoke of today. Iraq's military has been conducting annual exercises, and intelligence officials have warned that some of the activity appeared to go beyond that of previous years, including unusual movements of armored weapons and aircraft, officials said.
"I would say there is just enough to warrant the extra level of attention we're giving it," but not yet enough to prompt the administration to act, a senior administration official said on Friday. In 1996, similar exercises in Iraq culminated when Iraqi troops stormed into the Kurdish enclave in the north.
The latest activity has prompted the Pentagon to put its forces on a heightened state of alert, including batteries of Patriot missiles based in Germany, which have been ordered to be ready to move quickly to Israel or other countries in the event of a confrontation with Iraq.
Dr. Albright's comments were not unexpected; diplomats at the United Nations say they believe that the Clinton administration does not want another confrontation in its waning months in office.
A comprehensive economic embargo was imposed on Iraq after its invasion of Kuwait in August 1990. Last December the Security Council, in creating the new Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission, gave Iraq a plan under which sanctions could be suspended after a period of cooperation with inspectors on solving key disarmament tasks.
Iraq says that the decade-long embargo has led to the deaths of a million people because of scarcities of food, medicine and other goods. Some American and European groups are campaigning to end sanctions.
"While those groups may be well-meaning, they need to understand who the villain is," Dr. Albright said today. "The villain is Saddam Hussein. It is very, very simple." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); CROSSETTE, BARBARA; MYERS, STEVEN LEE SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



284 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Gore's War on Business

BYLINE: By Jerry J. Jasinowski; Jerry J. Jasinowski is president of the National Association of Manufacturers.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
I've known Al Gore and Joseph Lieberman for years. They are smart, capable men who have a pretty good handle on what makes our economy tick. But judging from their comments in recent days, I'm a bit bewildered. In his speeches, Mr. Gore attacked "big oil," "the pharmaceutical companies," "big polluters" -- in short, corporate America in general.
He seems quite willing to play the populist card even if it distorts the record of corporations, fosters antagonism between company leadership and workers and encourages the very stereotyping that, on other fronts, the Democratic Party claims to be against. 
 Suddenly business is the enemy. Why, I'm not sure, since the Clinton-Gore team takes such great pains to boast about the economic achievements of the past eight years, including the 22 million new jobs generated by the free enterprise system. Consider the words of Mr. Lieberman in his recent book, "In Praise of Public Life": "We New Democrats believe that the booming economy of the 1990's resulted more from private sector innovation, investment and hard work than from government action."
Mr. Lieberman got it right. The men and women who make things in America, from skilled workers on the factory floor to innovators in the company lab, have fueled these achievements.
And these workers have been duly rewarded. Today's manufacturing jobs provide an average yearly compensation of $49,000 per worker, nearly 17 percent higher than in the private sector overall.
But great success of business in creating good jobs seems to be lost in this campaign. Mr. Gore and Mr. Lieberman are creating an atmosphere of division between employers and employees at a time when workers and their employers are partners as never before. The newfound angry populism of the Gore-Lieberman ticket distorts the true picture of the American economy and fosters resentment rather than cooperation.
As another centrist Democrat, the late Senator Paul Tsongas, said in his speech at the 1992 Democratic Convention, "You cannot redistribute wealth you never created. You can't be pro-jobs and anti-business at the same time. You cannot love employment and hate employers."
This year's Democratic ticket would do well to heed these wise words. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY FACTORY WORKERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); 

PERSON: JASINOWSKI, JERRY J; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN) AL GORE (92%); JOE LIEBERMAN (90%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



285 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Taking Power Over Oil

BYLINE: By Philip K. Verleger Jr.; Philip K. Verleger Jr. is a partner with the Brattle Group, an economic consulting group in Cambridge, Mass.

DATELINE: NEWPORT BEACH, Calif.

 BODY:
The cost of oil is rising again, and the conventional wisdom in the industrialized countries is that prices can only come down if OPEC increases oil production. President Clinton, meeting with the Saudi crown prince, Abdullah, last week in New York, followed this line, cautioning the prince that high oil prices threaten the global economy. The finance ministers of European Union nations echoed his warnings and called on OPEC to pump more oil.
Listening to these politicians or to spokesmen of the American oil industry, one might conclude that the entire problem is the fault of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. OPEC did, indeed, cut production in March 1999, when oil prices were around $10 a barrel, and in reaction to the reduced supply, prices more than tripled. But the West is not powerless in the pricing of oil. 
 For decades, American strategy has been dictated by the assumption that only OPEC could bring oil prices down. Time and again Americans are treated to the spectacle of our officials prostrating themselves before officials from Saudi Arabia, Mexico and Venezuela to beg for more oil. These officials seem less like leaders of the free world than like Oliver Twist pleading, "Please, sir, I want some more."
Not only is this approach to oil diplomacy humiliating, but it is also completely unnecessary. We can keep prices down on our own.
The world's leading industrialized countries hold more than 1.2 billion barrels of oil in their strategic reserves -- stockpiles created 25 years ago in reaction to the Arab oil boycott. Nearly half of this oil is owned by the United States, and Energy Department officials have outlined a creditable plan to use the stocks to moderate prices this winter: The government would lend up to one-third of its crude reserve to refiners before demand reached seasonal peaks, on the guarantee that the refiners would return the crude later in the year.
If Washington were to do this today, crude prices would be likely to fall by at least 15 percent and possibly by 20 percent, which might prevent heating oil prices from rising to $2 a gallon this winter.
Moreover, instead of asking refiners to return the same number of gallons of oil in the spring, the government could require them to return oil with an equivalent dollar value. Because spring crude futures can be bought at relatively low prices, refiners would end up returning more oil than they borrowed, at no monetary loss. This would mean a larger strategic reserve for the future.
A similar plan to release some of the strategic reserve was advocated last fall by Senators Charles Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Susan Collins, Republican of Maine. Yet nothing was done, and consumer heating oil prices soared above $2 a gallon in New England.
Why does our government choose to beg rather than act? There seems to be a combination of reasons. One is the predictable governmental fear of upsetting a status quo, especially one involving the geopolitically sensitive nations of the Middle East. Another is an ideological hesitancy to have the government interfere with the free market (as though the OPEC-dominated oil trade in any way resembled a free market). Also, we are under pressure from our allies in Europe and Japan, who seem timid about upsetting Saudi Arabia.
The American failure to tap into the reserve is part of a larger bankruptcy in energy strategy. For example, the government advocates increased use of clean fuels like natural gas, low-sulfur diesel fuels and reformulated gasoline. However, it opposes steps that would actually increase production of these fuels, such as leasing more offshore land for exploration or loosening environmental regulations that make it hard for companies to overhaul their existing refineries.
Likewise, the government pushes the deregulation of electric utilities, yet little has been done to break the monopolies that traditional utilities have over distribution grids. When monopoly practices cause prices to rise, the government's standard response is to blame consumers for excessive consumption.
As for tapping into the oil reserve, there is a perfect model for using government power to bring sanity to the market: the success of the Federal Reserve in using monetary policy to keep the economy on an even keel over the last two decades. One hopes that President Clinton and Energy Secretary Bill Richardson will realize that they have the same types of tools used by Alan Greenspan. They only need to decide to use them.
There is no need to go to OPEC on bended knee.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ingo Fast)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MAINE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MAINE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (89%); HEATING OIL PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (86%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); FUTURES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (66%); 

PERSON: VERLEGER, PHILIP K JR BILL CLINTON (88%); SUSAN COLLINS (57%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



286 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: Plan for Swiss to Pay Nazi Victims

BYLINE: By DAVID BARSTOW 

 BODY:
In a significant step for thousands of Holocaust victims who have fought for decades to recover their savings from Swiss banks, a special master appointed by a federal judge overseeing a class action lawsuit submitted a complex plan yesterday for distributing $1.25 billion in settlement payments from the banks.
Under the plan, $800 million from the settlement would be set aside to repay Holocaust survivors or heirs who can show that they held accounts in Swiss banks during the World War II era. 
 Where account balances can be proven, the money would be refunded in full with interest and adjusted for inflation. Where balances are not known, victims or their heirs would get at least 35 percent of amounts recommended case-by-case by an independent tribunal in Zurich. To date, 26,000 Swiss accounts have been identified as probably belonging to victims of Nazi persecution.
The remaining $450 million would be divided among survivors -- but not heirs -- from four other classes of Holocaust victims. An estimated 200,000 slave laborers who worked for German companies and a smaller number who worked for Swiss companies would be paid up to $1,000 each. About 17,000 refugees who were denied entrance to Switzerland during the war would get up to $2,500 each, while 3,000 refugees detained in Switzerland under abusive conditions would be entitled to $500 each.
Another $100 million would be set aside to help compensate those whose assets were looted by the Nazis and then deposited in Swiss accounts. But rather than distribute it to individual survivors, most of the money would be given to organizations that provide aid to elderly and destitute Holocaust survivors in the former Soviet Union. A final $10 million would be used to compile, for research and remembrance, a list of all who were the target of persecution under the Nazis.
Edward R. Korman, the United States District Court judge in Brooklyn who is overseeing the case, will hold a public hearing on the proposal on Nov. 20. He could adopt the proposal, reject it or modify it. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: ZURICH (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND; SWITZERLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); ZURICH (73%); 

SUBJECT: NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND MINORITIES; SUITS AND LITIGATION GENOCIDE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); REFUGEES (90%); HOLOCAUST (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); JUDGES (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (61%); 

PERSON: BARSTOW, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



287 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 31; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: In Akron, the Talk Is About Treads

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: AKRON, Ohio, Sept. 12

 BODY:
When the International Tire Exhibition and Conference opened here today, more than 2,500 people gathered in small meeting rooms to listen to scientists deliver papers on "Metallic Coagents for Bonding Rubber to Metal and Synthetic Fibers" or "Tire Shearography."
But try as they might to focus on such topics, they could not help talking about the Firestone controversy. 
 Though scientists and industry officials are gathering for this three-day conference to deliver papers that deal with tire failures and tread separation, which is at the heart of the huge recall, few will speculate about what went wrong.
Several participants said they were legally advised not to speak about Bridgestone/Firestone and even to delete the term "tread separation" from presentations.
Others said they had noticed a growing interest in X-ray and laser equipment that might be used to detect problems.
Several executives said tire makers use such equipment in plants only sporadically because it is too expensive to test every tire. But that may be changing, they said.
"The truck industry X-rays 100 percent of their tires, but the margins aren't in passenger tires to be able to X-ray each one," said Ted Neuhaus, a tire consultant at Laser Technology Inc. in Norristown, Pa. "Now, though, the fear is that if it happened to one company, it could also happen to others."
Conference organizers held a news briefing this afternoon calling for the creation of a commission made up of government and industry officials to gather information about tire safety.
Robert Simmons, publisher of Rubber and Plastics News, which organized the conference with its parent company, Crain Communications, said that creating such a commission would avoid greater government regulation.
"My concern is that if the tire industry does not take quick, responsible action, someone else will do it for us," Mr. Simmons said.
Many here said the Firestone brand name had been irreparably damaged.
"People are talking about sooner or later this name will disappear," said John Choi, who sells tire-making machinery in Korea. "People don't want tires made by Firestone."
Others suggested that the problem could be poor maintenance of the tires and the discrepancy between the inflation levels recommended by Firestone and Ford, which equipped its Explorers with the tires.
Many industry officials stressed how complicated the tire-making process was and how sophisticated tires had become.
In the exhibition hall, industry officials talked about how far the industry had come from the days when Charles Goodyear invented vulcanization, which helped transform Akron into the industry's birthplace.
"We have doubled the life of the tire and provided all-weather traction," a Goodyear Tire and Rubber spokesman told a television crew.
Many at the conference -- not naming names -- pointed the finger at automakers, which have pushed to keep tire prices low, and a public unwilling to pay top dollar.
"People here buy tires that are cheaper than sneakers and then drive 70 miles per hour on them," said Jorg Jetter, who was on duty at the exhibition booth of Jet Lasersysteme, which makes equipment for the industry.
Truck tires, many delegates said, are much more expensive and largely better made because of the liabilities associated with the industry.
Few, though, were willing to point too harshly at Firestone, at least publicly. Several meetings, after all, were held in the Harvey S. Firestone room, and the loudspeaker announced at noon that a complimentary luncheon was sponsored by Bridgestone/Firestone.
After delivering a paper on the bonding of steel cords to rubber -- the issue many investigators said might be the problem -- William J. van Ooij, a professor at the University of Cincinnati and an expert in rubber adhesion in tires, said he would not speculate about the cause of tread separation.
"It's theoretically possible, but I think it's highly unlikely that it was a design problem," he said. "I know Firestone, and it wouldn't be design."
Suresh Sethi, an executive at Modi, a tire equipment company in India, said that makers of autos and tires around the world were overly concerned about price and market share. Not enough thought had been given to safety, he said. "You buy a $30,000 vehicle," he said, "and what does the tire cost? The companies were trying to save $1 per tire because $1 per tire adds up to a lot. That is responsible for this."
Gunter Maass, an executive at Erhardt & Leimer, a tire equipment company in Germany, said the recall was about technology. He said this would not happen in Europe.
"As far as I understand, this is not the first time," he said, referring to a 1978 Firestone recall.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Lippus from Jamac Inc. of Sandusky, Ohio, was among the participants at the International Tire Exhibition and Conference in Akron, Ohio. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 5108 (TSE) (97%); GT (SWX) (85%); GT (NASDAQ) (85%); GT (BRU) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (97%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (97%); NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (85%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (85%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (85%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3829 MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC (67%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (74%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AKRON, OH, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BRIDGESTONE CORP; FORD MOTOR CO BRIDGESTONE CORP (97%); GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (85%); LASER TECHNOLOGY INC (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRIDGESTONE CORP; FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (74%); OHIO, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TIRES; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; RECALLS AND BANS OF PRODUCTS; AUTOMOBILE SAFETY FEATURES AND DEFECTS; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); TIRES (90%); TIRE MFG (89%); RUBBER & SILICONE PRODUCTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LASERS (76%); PRODUCT RECALLS (75%); PRODUCT SAFETY (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (68%); PARENT COMPANIES (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (58%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID HARVEY S FIRESTONE (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



288 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: The Latest Oil Shock

 BODY:
The high price of oil is both a testament to the current global economic boom and a threat to its continuation. The heartening news is that the oil-producing nations themselves seem to realize this, and are intent on trying to drive prices lower. Whether there is enough unused production capacity to accomplish this in the short run remains to be seen, but the political will to try is welcome.
Crude oil surged past the $35-a-barrel mark on Monday, its highest level in a decade. Protesters in Britain blockaded refineries, threatening to bring the nation to a standstill. They demanded that the government reduce fuel taxes. Images of panicked drivers seeking to hoard fuel before most service stations closed brought back painful memories of the 1970's oil crisis. 
 Prime Minister Tony Blair refused to follow the lead of the French government, which reduced its fuel taxes by 15 percent last week, but instead sought contingency powers to control the distribution of fuel. Largely because of high taxes, European consumers typically pay more than twice what Americans do to fill up their cars.
This week's rise in oil prices came despite a decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries over the weekend to increase output by 800,000 barrels a day, or 3 percent. The group's shaky credibility partly accounts for the market's skeptical reaction. Some of the cartel nations already produce more than their quota, and it is unclear how much additional oil will actually be pumped. The overheated global economy has left little production capacity underused outside of Saudi Arabia. As a result the OPEC president, Ali Rodriguez, who is also Venezuela's oil minister, warned yesterday that the world may be facing a severe energy crisis.
President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, who will soon play host to a meeting of heads of state from the OPEC nations, has been aggressively pushing for a target price band between $22 and $28 a barrel. The idea is to have the cartel automatically adjust production when the price of crude oil moves above or below the band. Such a mechanism would require an unprecedented degree of coordination among OPEC members, and is not likely to work as smoothly as Mr. Chavez suggests. But it could help stem the volatility in oil pricing.
Inflation in the United States is showing signs of revival in response to higher oil prices, the one cloud in an otherwise rosy economic outlook. The promised increase in crude production from OPEC and an increase in global production capacity expected late this year may not be timely enough to alleviate what is expected to be a sharp rise in domestic heating oil prices this winter. President Clinton said yesterday the government would seek to counter rising heating costs.
The high crude oil prices seem all the more serious because the world enjoyed unusually low fuel prices for much of the past decade. But in real terms the price of oil is a third lower than it was in 1990, though that may prove of little comfort to European drivers forced to pay about $4 a gallon at the pump, or to those struggling developing nations that must import oil.
Predicting movements in oil prices is impossible, but there is reason to be hopeful the world is not confronting an oil crisis akin to that of the early 1970's. The industrialized world is less vulnerable to an oil shock, and retains some options to counter persistently high oil prices, at least temporarily. Europe could lower tax rates on fuel. America could draw oil from its strategic reserve. The best solution would be a steep increase in production by oil producers, especially Saudi Arabia. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); EDITORIALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); FUEL TAX (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); PLANT CAPACITY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CARTELS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); TRENDS (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); GASOLINE MARKETS (65%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); TONY BLAIR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



289 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: BANKING'S BIG DEAL: THE REACTION;
Real Estate Industry Gains Said to Eclipse Job Losses

BYLINE: By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
A union between Chase Manhattan and J. P. Morgan & Company would probably mean the elimination of only a few jobs and free much-needed real estate space, people in the industry say.
The deal ending the independence of J. P. Morgan, a storied New York firm that has built a strong reputation as an investment bank, would also probably mean the elimination of some jobs that are deemed to be duplicated after the merger. 
 But, according to government officials in New York who had limited knowledge of the plans, the impact would be minimal, and the acquisition was likely to have a positive impact on New York's already tight real estate market.
"Most of the consolidation will be at the higher levels and that banking talent will be redeployed because those people are quite resilient and skilled," said Mitchell Moss, a business professor at New York University, said, echoing the sentiments government officials. "And it will be very good for the New York real estate market, because it will open up space in a very tight market."
Government officials said that they were publicly taking a wait-and-see approach to the mergers of the two New York companies. But, privately, they said it would help strengthen the financial services industry in New York.
Mr. Moss said that the two companies have "complementary strengths" that will help a new company at a time when "the financial services industry is increasingly one that is becoming more integrated" and the lines between "investment banks, retail banks and other banks" were slowly being eliminated.
Mr. Moss added that in the end New York would "benefit from being the home of the merged banks."
The overall impacts of any acquisition on the economy, job market and the real estate industry are still unclear, but local leaders seem to be taking a positive attitude.
Carl Weisbrod, the president of the Downtown Alliance of New York, a group that represents businesses in the Wall Street area, said that the strength of a combined bank would help Manhattan solidify its international dominance in the financial services industry.
"Consolidation in today's economic climate does not have as much of an impact as it would have several years ago," Mr. Weisbrod said. "In a way, anything that is going to strengthen New York's role as the financial capital of the world is going to be encouraged, especially in this era of globalization."
Mr. Weisbrod said that the areas of Manhattan where both companies have their offices are in dire need of available commercial real estate and that any job loses would be offset quickly in this market.
"In the early 1980's, the consolidation of commercial banking did have an impact on occupancy rates on commercial real estate space and did contribute to the depression on Wall Street," he said. "But Lower Manhattan's economy is going extremely well, people can find jobs, the growth of Silicon Alley has really diversified things."
Mr. Moss, the New York University business professor, said that while some may worry about losing their jobs, few will be in a position to have to truly worry about finding employment. "The important thing is that no matter what happens in any merger, New York is going to be the home of one of the largest banks in the world," Mr. Moss said. "There will be a stronger, better bank in New York, as opposed to having two weaker ones." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN, J P, & CO; CHASE MANHATTAN BANK JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN, J P, & CO; CHASE MANHATTAN BANK

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; REAL ESTATE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND OTHER COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES REAL ESTATE (94%); LAYOFFS (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MERGERS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); RETAIL BANKING (71%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%); 

PERSON: BLAIR, JAYSON MITCHELL MOSS (88%); CARL WEISBROD (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



290 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Europe Lifts Sanctions on Austria, but Vows Vigilance

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 12

 BODY:
The European Union lifted its sanctions against Austria today, seven months after hurriedly imposing a diplomatic freeze on Vienna for bringing a rightist party into its governing coalition.
But the Europeans said they remained deeply concerned about the Freedom Party's role in the government and vowed to maintain a "particular vigilance." 
 The lifting of the sanctions came four days after a panel of experts issued a report on human rights and political life in Austria. The report recommended an end to the sanctions, which had increasingly become an embarrassment to the European Union.
Austrian officials quickly welcomed the news.
"This is a great success for Austria resulting from our patience and firmness," Austria's chancellor, Wolfgang Schussel, said on national television soon after the sanctions were lifted.
Mr. Schussel said there had been efforts behind the scenes to suspend the measures rather than lift them and to keep them in place for a longer time or to set up a monitoring mechanism. Ultimately, all those efforts were dropped.
Although the sanctions were adopted unanimously by Austria's 14 European Union partners, enthusiasm for them waned quickly as they threatened to strengthen opposition to the group and to a common European currency, particularly in a crucial referendum on the euro in Denmark this month.
The sanctions -- which included a boycott of cultural exchange programs and military exercises -- did not amount to much more than a crimp in the social life of Austria's ambassadors. But critics said the sanctions went too far: they represented an unparalleled intrusion into the internal affairs of a member country and they infuriated the Austrians.
Predictions that the boycott would affect tourism or the Austrian economy never came to pass. But early on the sanctions did cause some awkward diplomatic moments as various officials did their best to avoid their Austrian counterparts. At a summit meeting of the European Union in Portugal, for instance, the usual group picture was done away with because various leaders, including France's president, Jacques Chirac, did not want to be seen standing next to Mr. Schussel.
In Washington today, a State Department official said that the United States was examining the European Union report but would maintain the modest diplomatic sanctions that it imposed in February to "limit" contacts with Austrian officials.
"Our policy has not changed," the official said. "We remain concerned about the Freedom Party's participation in the Austrian government."
 Canada followed the Europeans' lead, lifting its sanctions against Austria on the ground that it no longer feared Vienna would adopt policies that infringed on human rights, Reuters reported.
Throughout the weekend it seemed clear that many European Union members were eager for the sanctions to be lifted immediately. But France, which had led the move to impose the freeze and which now holds the group's rotating presidency, refused to be rushed. Its officials hinted that a monitoring system was still needed.
France, however, was apparently forced to settle for the vague promise of "vigilance."
In lifting the sanctions, the 14 members issued a joint statement in Paris this evening. "The measures taken by the 14 were useful," the statement said. "They can now be lifted." But the statement added: "The nature of the Freedom Party and its uncertain evolution remains cause for serious worry. The 14 consider that a particular vigilance should be exercised with regard to this party and the influence it exerts on the government it is a part of."
At the sanctions continued month after month, it became clear that some of the smaller European member countries felt threatened by what was happening to Austria. In Denmark, for instance, some experts believe that lifting the sanctions can help make sure that Danes vote to adopt the euro when the issue goes to a referendum on Sept. 28. Even before the joint statement was issued this evening, Danish officials were promising that the sanctions would be gone by the end of the day.
By the begining of summer, signs of a thaw were already apparent. On Bastille Day, the Austrian ambassador was among the dignitaries sharing a reviewing stand with Mr. Chirac. The Belgians extended a similar invitation to their Austrian ambassador. Meanwhile, European Commission officials, trying to build a face-saving way to wriggle out of the sanctions, appointed a three-member panel to assess human rights and political life in Austria before making a recommendation on lifting the freeze.
The report, issued last Friday, found that the sanctions had served a useful purpose by focusing attention on common values in the European Union and increasing the Austrian government's self-awareness. But the report said that prolonging the sanctions would be counterproductive by creating ill will from Austrians.
The three experts -- Prof. Jochen Frowein, the director of the Max Planck Institure in Germany; Martti Ahtisaari, the former president of Finland, and Marcelino Oreja, a former Spanish government minister -- also gave the Schussel government high marks for taking concrete steps to fight racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism.
But they called the Freedom Party, which was led by the controversial Jorg Haider until he stepped aside in February, "a right-wing populist party with radical elements." Some of its members continued to use xenophobic, even racist, language and were not reproached in any way, they said.
Mr. Haider's party became part of the current Austrian government when Chancellor Schussel and his People's Party decided that a coalition was the only way to end months of a political stalemate after the October elections.
Since the sanctions were imposed, Mr. Haider has several times lashed out at Mr. Chirac. This weekend, he stepped up his attacks, calling Mr. Chirac "a pocket-sized Napoleon" who had just met his "Waterloo."
Mr. Chirac has not spoken on the issue, though other French officials have scoffed at the remarks.
"Whatever decision is made by the 14, it is not a question of giving absolution" to the Freedom Party, said the French minister for European affairs, Pierre Moscovi, on Monday. "I don't see how the party can be exonerated."
In their statement today, the 14 European Union members also noted that the panel of experts had recommended that they develop a mechanism within the group to monitor and evaluate the commitment and performance of individual member countries with respect to "common European values." And the members said they would continue to study how best to monitor, analyze and act in similar situations in the furure.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chancellor Wolfgang Schussel, right, and the vice chancellor, Susanne Riess-Passer of the Freedom Party, at a news conference yesterday. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AUSTRIA (98%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PORTUGAL (79%); DENMARK (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRIA; AUSTRIA (98%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PORTUGAL (79%); DENMARK (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS EUROPEAN UNION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); BOYCOTTS (89%); EURO (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); CURRENCIES (66%); REFERENDUMS (51%); 

PERSON: HAIDER, JORG; DALEY, SUZANNE JACQUES CHIRAC (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



291 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGE BASKETBALL;
Knight Defends Himself; Indiana Names Coach

BYLINE: By STEVE POPPER 

 BODY:
Indiana University tried to look to the future yesterday, naming Mike Davis as the interim head basketball coach of the Hoosiers.
While Davis accepted his ascension from assistant to Bob Knight to successor to the controversial coach, it was clear from the remarks at Davis's news conference and from a nationally televised interview with Knight, that it will take a while to chip away at the Knight legacy in Bloomington. 
 Knight, who was fired on Sunday after 28 years as head coach at Indiana, spoke on ESPN last night, defending his behavior at the school, particularly since the administration put him on "zero tolerance" notice on May 15, and admitting that he had overstayed his welcome.
"I thought I would stay here and coach until I was done coaching, which I'm certainly not now," Knight said during the ESPN interview. "I'm not done coaching. But in recent years things have changed, the administration changed, the athletic department changed. For some people that may be good. For me, it wasn't.
"As recently as July I gave serious consideration to another job, and have in the last couple of years. I don't think that my thinking about another job quite overrode the feeling that I had for Indiana University and the kids we had here, the kids we had coming, what we had built. I wanted more than anything to see us get back. We've never been mediocre. always been really good or pretty good. I wanted to see us get back to really good. I kind of hung onto that thought for four or five years.
Knight added: "Probably I should have gone somewhere else. There's someone who's a better fit for these people and administration as a basketball coach. And there would be a place somewhere that's a better fit for me as a basketball coach than Indiana is right now."
He said he was not embarrassed to leave Indiana the way he did.
"Not at all," Knight insisted. "What I am is proud, proud of what our basketball program turned out."
Knight denied committing any of the violations that were detailed on Sunday by the university's president, Myles Brand.
And he said he would definitely coach somewhere else.
"I spent all summer with an offensive set in my mind while I'm fishing or traveling, thinking who's going to be here or there," he said. "Now I won't be able to do that with these kids. But I'm looking for kids that I can do it with. I haven't retired. I'm an unemployed teacher now, looking for a place to teach. There are too many things I have yet to explore about game of basketball."
He said he had already received calls inquiring about his interest.
Davis, who was an assistant to Knight for three seasons, serving as the lead recruiter for this year's prize class and the man who recruited most of the players he inherits, now steps into the spotlight.
While Knight no longer holds the entire state of Indiana in sway as he once did, he still had enough stature to prompt protests on campus and a threatened walkout by nearly the entire team if Davis were not named as coach.
But Davis, 39, who played at Alabama, then professionally in Europe and in the Continental Basketball Association, was named as interim head coach while another assistant, John Treloar, was named as interim associate head coach. The team stood behind Davis on the podium and expressed satisfaction.
"Coach Knight is the reason I'm here, but Indiana basketball is bigger than anyone," Davis said. "The players stood up for Coach Treloar and myself. I discussed the situation with their parents, and my son yesterday when I was leaving said, 'I hope you get the job.' I've gone to these kids homes and recruited them, convinced them to come here. They stood up for me, so there's no way I could turn it down."
"We definitely have something to prove," said the junior Dane Fife, who just one day earlier said he had already decided to leave. "We've been through a lot, and we have to come out and beat people."
Speaking of Knight, Fife said: "We owe it to him. This is his team. We're ready to go."
Davis said: "I don't think there was pressure from the players. For Mike Davis to be head coach at Indiana University is a miracle. If it wasn't September, this program could go out and get a big-time coach." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: INDIANA UNIVERSITY INDIANA UNIVERSITY (94%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY INDIANA UNIVERSITY (94%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIANA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; COACHES AND MANAGERS BASKETBALL (91%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); DISMISSALS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: POPPER, STEVE; DAVIS, MIKE; KNIGHT, BOB STEVE L DAVIS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



292 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC RUNNING MATES;
Best Crowd-Pleaser For Gore Is Lieberman

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: CINCINNATI, Sept. 12

 BODY:
Before Vice President Al Gore set foot on the stage this afternoon in front of a raucous crowd of 2,000 supporters at Cincinnati State Technical and Community College, there came The Testimonial.
"Al Gore has been a friend of mine for almost 15 years, and he's a man of family and faith," Senator Joseph I. Lieberman told the already enthusiastic audience. "Al Gore is a man of courage." 
 This scene has quickly become a chestnut for the Democrats' national ticket, repeated with slight variations from city to city and very likely to be heard again Wednesday when the two men travel to Boston. More than any other presidential and vice-presidential nominee in recent memory -- with the possible exception of Mr. Gore and President Clinton in 1992 -- Mr. Gore and Mr. Lieberman have made a habit of appearing in tandem.
The practice defies the conventional wisdom that running mates should split up to cover as many electoral bases as possible. But campaign officials say it will continue through November, reflecting the benefits they believe Mr. Lieberman has brought to the ticket, benefits that Gore aides concede have exceeded their hopes.
The Democrats see tactical advantages in joint campaigning, but the most compelling factor may be the one Gore aides are least comfortable addressing openly: It is clear, they agree, that Mr. Lieberman loosens up the famously stiff vice president, making him a more effective candidate.
"They're good friends, and campaigning is a stressful experience that's easier when it's shared with someone," said Tad Devine, a senior strategist for Mr. Gore.
Donna Brazile, Mr. Gore's campaign manager, said, "They just enjoy each other. You may even see some foursomes out there, with the spouses."
His aides say that Mr. Gore may not be adept at whipping up a crowd, but that he performs best before groups that are already enthusiastic. Mr. Lieberman, they say, effectively gets audiences ready for the vice president.
Mr. Lieberman's easy manner and constant joking leaven Mr. Gore's tendency toward seriousness, and the vice president, like others on the campaign, has not escaped his teasing. At a recent forum in Portland, Ore., Mr. Gore, noting that his wife, Tipper, had a master's degree in psychology, said that in recent years, "Her psychology practice is almost entirely devoted to me."
"For which she is not adequately reimbursed, I might add," Mr. Lieberman interjected.
Today, the candidates rolled through Ohio aboard a pair of yellow school buses to highlight their plans for improving education in this critical swing state. They made no new proposals, choosing instead to re-emphasize long-held positions on reducing class sizes, increasing testing of both students and teachers, expanding the federal Head Start program to provide preschool for 4-year-olds and some 3-year-olds, and offering tax credits for college tuition.
The day was largely dedicated to stagecraft, as the candidates took questions from students at Anna K. Wantz Middle School in Miamisburg, basked in the adulation of cheerleaders and band members in the gymnasium at Middletown High School and spoke at a rally here. They were followed by the campaign's own camera crew, filming them together for possible use in future television ads.
"Even to those of us out here watching on TV, it's been striking how much they've campaigned together," said Theodore J. Lowi, a professor of political science at Cornell University.
Since the Democratic convention last month, Mr. Lieberman has made campaign appearances on 19 days. On 12 of those days, including the four-day boat tour he and Mr. Gore took down the Mississippi River, he has made at least one appearance with the vice president, and often two or three a day.
By contrast, in the same period, Dick Cheney, the Republican vice presidential nominee, has campaigned with Gov. George W. Bush on four days.
"A lot of people still have this feeling that Gore isn't quite sincere, that he's too serious, he's too cautious" Mr. Lowi said. "Lieberman brings that Hubert Humphrey-like joy to the experience of campaigning, and he sounds like he really believes what he's saying.
"And he's a living reminder to people that Gore can make a very bold, very well-received move," Mr. Lowi said. "That is, picking Lieberman."
Mr. Lieberman is best known for criticizing Mr. Clinton's private behavior, for opposing vulgarity and violence in popular entertainment, and for talking frequently about his own Jewish faith. Mr. Gore's aides have made no secret that it was his reputation as a morally upstanding man, as much as anything else, that appealed to the vice president, whose own image has been sullied somewhat by questions about improper fund-raising in the 1996 campaign.
"He can talk about Gore as a first-hand witness and credential him as a person and as a leader in a very credible way," Mr. Devine said.
Mr. Lieberman's main role in their joint appearances has been to introduce the vice president with boasts about his accomplishments. And he is performing an important service for a presidential candidate whose own bragging -- like his claim to having a hand in creating the Internet -- has sometimes been clumsy and, however accurate, widely mocked. Mr. Lieberman reminds audiences that Mr. Gore volunteered for service in Vietnam, that he supported an overhaul of welfare, that he voted for United States entry into the Persian Gulf war, and that he helped preside over a booming economy.
"I don't think anybody who is fair would disagree with this comment," Mr. Lieberman said today, "that Al Gore has been the most effective and successful vice president in the history of the United States of America."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Campaigning together more often than running mates usually do, Vice President Al Gore and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman appeared yesterday at a rally at Cincinnati State Technical and Community College. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); OHIO, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (65%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (62%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (60%); 

PERSON: LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD AL GORE (96%); JOE LIEBERMAN (92%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



293 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: BANKING'S BIG DEAL: THE TRADITION;
Storied Bank Failed to Move With Times

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
Nearly a century ago, the House of Morgan and its founder, J. Pierpont Morgan, preserved the American financial system in the midst of a widespread panic.
But despite the best efforts of the bank that bears J. P. Morgan's name, in recent years it could not preserve itself. 
 Over the last 20 years J. P. Morgan has undergone a remarkable renovation, infusing what had become a sleepy bank devoted simply to lending money to big governments and corporations with the pioneering spirit of the House of Morgan. Morgan was the first modern American commercial bank to break out of the restrictions imposed on banking in the 1930's during the Depression, becoming a contender on Wall Street by underwriting stock offerings and advising on gigantic mergers.
But as much as the company strained to reclaim its former glory, it was not able to find a comfortable position in the modern financial world. So Morgan put itself on the block, talking with a number of banks around the world before reaching a deal to be acquired by the Chase Manhattan Bank for about $31 billion.
In the end, analysts said, Morgan's downfall may be that it tried too hard to remain what its founder had built -- a behind-the-scenes adviser to the richest and most powerful, with a driven but insular culture. It shied away from the wave of banking mergers so prevalent in recent years. And Morgan found it had become an anachronism in a financial world dominated by mass rather than class.
"Nobody like them is succeeding," said Alden Toevs, an executive vice president of the First Manhattan Consulting Group. "The companies they are competing with are just much bigger in terms of capital and product lines."
Morgan is not alone. In just the last two months, two other midsize Wall Street firms -- Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and PaineWebber -- also agreed to be bought, both by huge diversified Swiss banks.
Paradoxically, J. P. Morgan is giving up its independence only a year after its biggest regulatory burden -- the Glass-Steagall Act -- was lifted. Passed in 1933, the law separated commercial and investment banking and forced the Morgan Stanley brokerage firm to be split from J. P. Morgan.
Through the 1970's, the Morgan bank was content to lend money to big governments and corporations and to manage the assets of the heirs to the fortunes of the turn-of-the-century robber barons and other wealthy individuals. But as its big corporate borrowers were able to raise money directly by issuing stocks and bonds, the company realized its traditional business was wasting away.
Given the choice of changing its clients or changing its products, declared its former chairman, Lewis Preston, in the 1980's, J. P. Morgan should offer its existing clients the ability to trade securities and agree to underwrite their financial offerings. This set in motion a 20-year game of cat and mouse with Congress and the banking regulators as Morgan found more and more regulatory loopholes that allowed it to act more and more like a brokerage firm. Indeed, when Congress finally repealed Glass-Steagall last year, Morgan had already become much more like its old partner, Morgan Stanley, than a traditional commercial bank.
But repeal freed Morgan's competitors to go after its business, even as it accelerated the mergers among its rivals. Morgan executives, in the bank's exhaustively deliberate style, studied and stewed over myriad possible combinations, but never were willing to dilute what they saw as the company's unique culture and heritage.
"This was the last bank on Wall Street that wanted to surrender its independence, and in retrospect this proved to be a real handicap," said Ron Chernow, the author of "The House of Morgan," the definitive history of the bank. "The other commercial banks weren't hampered by a sense of tradition and were able to grow at greater speed."
Ten years ago, Mr. Chernow noted, Morgan had the highest stock market value of any bank in the country. Now its value is one-tenth of the biggest, Citigroup.
The financial world is increasingly dominated by two kinds of institutions. On one side are investment banking powerhouses -- Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, Merrill Lynch, perhaps Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank -- that manage the raising of capital, brokering of mergers and trading of anything with a price. Competition in this business is so intense that even successful second-tier players are choosing to sell to larger rivals.
The second sort of giant that has evolved out of the commercial banks are financial conglomerates that sell all manner of investments, loans, deposits and insurance. The archetype of this company is now Citigroup, which incorporates Morgan's longtime rival Citibank, along with the Salomon Brothers and Smith Barney brokerage firms and the Travelers Insurance company. And the corporate ancestor of the entire conglomerate is the antithesis of everything Morgan: the Commercial Credit Corporation, which began by lending money to lower-income people before it was transformed into a global leader by the driven deal making of its leader, Sanford I. Weill.
While Morgan has managed to crack the the top 10 in annual score cards of underwriting and advisory deals, it has never been able to climb to the very top where the bulk of the profits are earned.
Morgan in some ways was trapped by its earlier success doing business with tycoons and Fortune 500 companies, Mr. Chernow said, and could not take advantage of the burgeoning markets managing the money of main street America.
"They felt their competitive advantage was to trade on the romanticism and illustrious tradition that no one could match," Mr. Chernow said. "But when the entire world of Wall Street was going down market, they felt that by lessening their standards they would water down their mystique."
Similarly, Morgan's focus on the very largest corporate customers left it with little involvement in the most dynamic sector of the economy recently, small technology companies.
In recent years, Morgan has tried to address these flaws with modest efforts. It started an Internet business meant to serve the affluent rather than the truly wealthy. And it tried to get involved in financing Internet companies. But the results have been mixed. One of Morgan's most prominent Internet deals was the financing of Boo.com, an ambitious attempt to create a global Web site selling women's sportswear. Morgan helped Boo gain investments from some of the most wealthy families in Europe, but after running through $135 million, Boo was liquidated earlier this year.
Morgan is now likely to see itself become a part of Chase, an agglomeration of banks that had hardly been in its league. To be sure, some of the ancestors of the current Chase have their own storied histories. The Bank of Manhattan Company, after all, was founded in 1799 as a water company. And Chase in the 1970's, run by David Rockefeller, was a leading banker to the Arab world. But the institution now using the Chase name was formed when two underperforming New York banks -- Chemical Bank and Manufacturers Hanover -- merged in 1991 as a way to preserve capital drained by a decade of overindulgent lending. In 1995, what was then called Chemical bought Chase, which itself was struggling to meet profit goals. Chemical was clearly in control but took the more prestigious name.
"They have a history of making acquisitions and integrating them successfully; that is enviable in an industry that has not done this well," Mr. Toevs said. Still, Chase, with its extensive branches and wide-ranging clientele, relies on a corporate culture drawn more from the streets of New York than of the rarefied air breathed by those at Morgan.
"The Morgan folks are always wearing their elite status on their sleeves," Mr. Toevs said. "That's got to help the Chase franchise."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The headquarters of J. P. Morgan, which Chase is expected to buy. (Associated Press); Roosevelt signed the Glass-Steagall Act in 1933. The law, which was repealed only a year ago, forced Morgan's brokerage and banking units to separate. (Corbis/Bettmann); J. Pierpont Morgan built a bank that became a behind-the-scenes adviser to the rich and powerful. (United Press International)
 
Chart
1861 -- J. Pierpont Morgan founds J. P. Morgan & Company in New York.
 
1870 -- A Morgan bank lends 10 million to cash-starved France during the Franco-Prussian War, helping to establish the House of Morgan as a world-class bank.
 
1895 -- J. Pierpont Morgan unites its European and American operations, financing railroads, utilities and steelmakers.
 
1907 -- Panic prompts a run on banks and a collapse on Wall Street. The House of Morgan leads a rescue of the financial system. The incident prompts the creation of a true central bank, the Federal Reserve, in 1913.
 
1913 -- J. Pierpont Morgan dies. J. P. Morgan Jr. takes the helm and builds the headquarters at 23 Wall Street.
 
1929 -- The stock market crashes, ushering in the Depression. Morgan and other banks are blamed.
 
1933 -- The Glass-Steagall Act is passed, forcing the separation of banking and securities companies.
 
1935 -- The company splits into J. P. Morgan & Company, a commercial bank led by J. P. Morgan Jr., and Morgan Stanley, an investment bank led by Harry Morgan, his son.
 
1942 -- J. P. Morgan & Company sells shares to the public for the first time.
 
1959 -- Morgan buys Guaranty Trust Company, described as Jonah swallowing the whale because Guaranty is four times its size.
 
1969 -- J. P. Morgan creates a holding company to manage its assets.
 
1989 -- J. P. Morgan is the first bank allowed by the Federal Reserve to underwrite and sell corporate bonds. Morgan is allowed to deal in stocks shortly thereafter. The company builds a new headquarters at 60 Wall Street.
 
1997 -- J. P. Morgan buys 45 percent of American Century, one of America's biggest mutual fund companies.
 
2000 -- Unable to break through to the top tier of investment banking, J. P. Morgan agrees to be bought by Chase Manhattan Bank for about $31 billion, ending months of talks with some of the world's major banks.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN BANK; MORGAN, J P, & CO JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (53%); FIRST MANHATTAN CONSULTING GROUP (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN BANK; MORGAN, J P, & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; STOCKS AND BONDS BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MERGERS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (88%); BONDS (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING LAW (77%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); SECURITIES TRADING (60%); AFFLUENT MARKET (60%); 

PERSON: MORGAN, J P (1837-1913)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



294 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Republicans' Request to Cut Debt Surprises Democrats

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12

 BODY:
With the demise of their large-scale tax cut, Republican leaders in Congress met today with President Clinton at the White House to discuss unfinished legislation and request that he set aside 90 percent of this year's surplus to pay down the national debt.
"I think we're down here to find a fair middle ground and try to start to have some productivity and finish up the season," said Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois. 
 But Democratic leaders who attended the meeting quickly seized on the Republican request concerning the surplus, saying they were puzzled by the last-minute proposal. For two years, Republicans have made tax cuts their showcase issue, though they have often mentioned debt reduction and protecting Social Security and Medicare in the same breath.
President Clinton vetoed their two most popular tax-cutting bills in August as too expensive and too skewed toward the wealthy.
"Republicans spent their entire two years trying to pass these tax cuts and now they say they really want to pay down the debt," said Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the Democratic leader. "It's either a gimmick designed to get them out of town or a break from where they have been in the past, if you play it out over 10 years."
Mr. Clinton told Republicans he viewed paying down the debt as a priority, but said he was not sure it could be done in the 2001 fiscal budget, which is set to begin on Oct. 1.
Spending requests are also piling up, Mr. Clinton said. The government must send emergency money to Western states recovering from wildfires, and lawmakers want increases for military spending and to help farmers. "Whether we can do it this year or not depends upon what the various spending commitments are," Mr. Clinton said.
As the discussion veered off to other matters, Mr. Clinton said he hoped Congress would pass bills to overhaul managed care and classify violence against gays as hate crimes, an issue the House is expected to take up on Wednesday. Mr. Clinton said he hoped to reach a compromise on raising the minimum wage and providing some tax relief to small businesses, which Republicans want to see linked in the same bill.
But most of today's discussion revolved around the Republican proposal to reduce the debt.
For Republicans, the shift in emphasis from tax cuts and toward reducing the debt is an effort to take the money off the table, rein in spending and protect them from Mr. Clinton's attacks on their tax cuts. It is also a move to put Mr. Clinton in an awkward position, since he and Vice President Al Gore, the Democratic presidential nominee, both support paying down the debt.
"If you lock in the debt reduction, you don't spend it," Senator Trent Lott, the majority leader, said.
But Democrats said a proposal to set aside 90 percent of the surplus for only one year would do nothing to pay down the debt. As it stands, they said, that figure is not so different from what already exists in the budget requests.
"The president's budget more than meets the 90 percent marker," said Gene Sperling, Mr. Clinton's top economic policy adviser. "But the real test is not a potentially artificial one-year number but whether or not there is a 10-year commitment to debt reduction and paying off the debt over exploding tax cuts."
Democrats portrayed the request as an effort to jump on a more popular bandwagon and as a split from the direction Gov. George W. Bush, the Republican nominee, is headed in with his large tax-cut package.
The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the surplus next year will total $268 billion. By setting aside 90 percent, nearly $30 billion would be available for extra spending and tax cuts.
"We smell a rat," said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader. "If it's a one-year plan, it's a gimmick. If it's a 12-year plan, they're divorcing themselves from their presidential candidate, George Bush, because George Bush has committed all of that surplus to a tax cut."
A spokesman fpr Mr. Bush, Ari Fleischer, said that the Bush plan would eliminate the debt by 2016. The Gore plan would eliminate it by 2012.
Republican leaders said their proposal was no gimmick, simply a bid to make Mr. Clinton choose between increasing spending or reducing the debt. Michele Davis, the press secretary for Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader, said: "It's saying, 'O.K., Mr. President, you vetoed the marriage penalty. Fine. That money is going to debt reduction. You vetoed the death tax. That money goes to debt reduction and you don't get to spend it.' "
Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the majority whip, said that the meeting was most productive; Republicans, he said, established a direct line to Mr. Clinton, without interference from Democratic leaders, to discuss issues that would come up in the waning weeks of the session. "We were straightforward with him," Mr. DeLay said. "We didn't pull any punches."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton, meeting yesterday with Congressional leaders in the Cabinet Room of the White House, discussed plans to cut the national debt. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US); TAXATION; VETOES (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MEDICARE (69%); HATE CRIME (69%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (66%); DEFENSE SPENDING (64%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HASTERT, DENNIS (SPEAKER); ALVAREZ, LIZETTE BILL CLINTON (94%); TRENT LOTT (58%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



295 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dresdner Bank in Talks
To Buy Wasserstein Perella Wasserstein Perella is in advanced talks to be acquired by Dresdner Bank of Germany and, if the two can come to terms on price, a deal could be announced in three to five days, a person close to the talks said.
If an agreement is reached, it would be the symbolic end of the swachbuckling style of deal-making celebrated in the 1980's, which has been replaced by a blander type of investment banking. Market Place. Page C16.
 
Company Teaches Tax Avoidance
Treasury officials say that abusive corporate tax shelters are the government's biggest tax enforcement problem, costing billions of dollars annually. Now a company called the Tax People is teaching similar tax avoidance techniques to middle-class Americans and says it has already signed up 50,000 of them. A1. 

Hewlett Rolls Out New Computer
Hewlett-Packard rolled out the powerful computer it is counting on to lift sales to companies that need systems capable of handling huge amounts of data around the clock. Carly S. Fiorina, Hewlett-Packard's chief executive, hailed the new computer, called Superdome, as a symbol of the company's claim that it has been "reinvented" as a more customer-oriented vendor selling solutions rather than products. Ms. Fiorina did not mention the company's talks to acquire the consulting arm of PricewaterhouseCoopers, but analysts said that such a deal would be consistent with the vision involved in Superdome. Shares of Hewlett-Packard fell $2.19, to $112.56. C6.
 
Merger of Exchanges Abandoned
The London Stock Exchange scrapped its proposal to merge with the Frankfurt stock exchange, abandoning for now an effort to create the first pan-European stock market. C4.
 
Burger King Puts Account in Review
Burger King placed the creative duties for its general market advertising account, involving assignments with billings estimated at $400 million, in review. The incumbent agency, the New York office of Lowe Lintas & Partners Worldwide, is being invited to participate in the review, but the company said it would be expected to offer a drastically new approach to the account. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C12.
 
Nasdaq Declines, but Dow Edges Up
Technology stocks declined, but blue chips rose modestly, driven by the surging shares of J. P. Morgan. The Nasdaq composite index fell 46.84 points, or 1.2 percent, to 3,849.51. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 37.74 points, or 0.3 percent, to 11,233.23. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 7.27 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,481.99. C18.
 
Creating a Supportive Atmosphere
Royal Farros, the chief executive of iPrint.com, an online printing service, says managing a company involves a lot of the same expectations and feelings as having pets. Creating a loving, affectionate home for pets is similar to fostering an active environment where employees feel important and influential. Building such a culture is not just critical to the personality of an organization, he says, but absolutely key to its livelihood. The Boss. C8.

Political Volunteers in White Collars
For all the fund-raising by Democrats and Republicans this year, candidates for offices from the the White House to the local school board know one thing is even more important than money: volunteers. And while these unpaid armies are made up mostly of students and retired people, it is business professionals who exhibit the qualities that political candidates value most: nuts-and-bolts organizational skills, management savvy and address books filled with contacts. Management. C8.
 
Travel Departments Toughen Limits
With estimates that business air fares, hotel rates and car rentals will rise by at least 5 percent next year, many travel departments are revamping travel policies or drafting new ones -- and insisting on more strict adherence to them. Joe Sharkey: Business Travel. C10.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11233.23 up 37.74
Nasdaq composite -- 3,849.51 down 46.84
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.75% up 0.03
The euro -- $0.8629 up 0.0051
The dollar -- 106.91 yen up 0.89
 
Graph shows Hewlett Packard share prices falling from Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); 

COMPANY: WASSERSTEIN PERELLA & CO (93%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (81%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (73%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); MERGERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); SALES & SELLING (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); CORPORATE TAX (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (53%); 

PERSON: CARLY S FIORINA (59%); CREATING A SUPPORTIVE ATMOSPHERE ROYAL FARROS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



296 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1862 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE POLLS;
Poll Shows Gore Overcoming Voter Concerns on Likability

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE with JANET ELDER 

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore has shaken the persistent sense that he is not particularly likable and is now as highly regarded as Gov. George W. Bush on matters of character, leadership and overall personal popularity, the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll shows.
Now that public opinion has settled somewhat since the Democratic convention nearly four weeks ago, and voters say they are far more interested in the race, the survey makes clear that Mr. Gore's enhanced fortunes are deeper and more sustained than a postconvention glow. 
 Mr. Gore has achieved substantial gains among women, independent voters and those from middle-income groups. While Mr. Bush's support has diminished somewhat over all, he retains the overwhelming support of men, Midwesterners and Southerners.
The poll shows that the presidential race is neck and neck and that Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore are facing off in the tightest competition just after Labor Day in 20 years.
Forty-two percent of registered voters said they would back Mr. Gore if the election were held today, and 39 percent said they would vote for Mr. Bush. Four percent said they would back Ralph Nader, the Green Party nominee, and 2 percent would favor Patrick J. Buchanan of the Reform Party.
Mr. Gore has gained on Mr. Bush in recent weeks, but not to a degree that is statistically significant. The nationwide telephone poll, conducted Saturday through Monday with 843 registered voters, has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
And there was some encouraging news for Mr. Bush in the numbers. Forty-seven percent of Mr. Gore's supporters said they had reservations about him; only 38 percent of Mr. Bush's backers registered concerns about their candidate.
By far the most pronounced shift in the survey is the marked improvement in the public's perceptions of Mr. Gore.
For months, Americans said they found Mr. Gore's positions on various issues more appealing than Mr. Bush's, but the vice president's most persistent problem was that voters said they had significant misgivings about him on issues of character.
Now, while Mr. Bush has held his own in retaining impressive favorability ratings, Mr. Gore's favorability ratings have increased substantially -- to the point where the two men are now equally popular. Forty-four percent of voters say they have a favorable view of Mr. Gore, while 29 percent have an unfavorable view. Mr. Gore has not done that well by this measure for years. In recent months, the public either had more negative views of Mr. Gore than positive ones, or, more recently, had given him positive ratings that equaled his negatives.
In a striking example of how perceptions have transformed, voters no longer view Mr. Bush as the runaway winner in the November election. They are now split on whether Mr. Gore or Mr. Bush will make it to the White House. As recently as two months ago, Mr. Bush led Mr. Gore on this question by more than 20 percentage points.
Voters are also more confident in Mr. Gore's ability to deal wisely with an international crisis. Forty-nine percent said they were confident in Mr. Gore, a gain from 43 percent in a Times/CBS poll in July. Mr. Bush's standing on that issue has remained steady at 46 percent.
While 63 percent of the public thinks Mr. Gore cares about the needs and problems of ordinary people -- a figure that has not changed since July -- Mr. Bush has shown some slippage. Forty-nine percent say that Mr. Bush cares about ordinary people, a decline from 55 percent in July.
It is not altogether clear what has prompted the more kindly feelings toward Mr. Gore. But in follow-up interviews yesterday, many voters who now back Mr. Gore said they were impressed by what they saw at the Democratic convention. Repeatedly, they said, Mr. Gore seemed to be coming into his own and moving out of President Clinton's shadow.
"At the convention, he did a better job of concealing anything that was negative, if he had anything to begin with," said Wilma Akins, 69, a retired office manager in Statesboro, Ga. "He made me feel hopeful and optimistic about the future."
Joyce Taylor, 46, a grocery store manager in Philadelphia, said: "He's become stronger and seems to be speaking out more since the convention. He's becoming his own man now, and he's not as stiff as he once was."
Although there is still not a single overwhelming issue that defines the race -- as the economy has in the past -- the survey found that the closest contender this year was health care, and the related matter of Medicare. Nearly two-thirds of voters said the high cost of prescription drugs for the elderly was quite important to them personally.
Voters said they thought the government -- not insurance companies -- would do a better job of providing coverage to the elderly for prescription drugs. Mr. Gore was seen as more likely than Mr. Bush to succeed in reducing the cost of prescription drugs for the elderly. Mr. Bush has proposed allowing private insurance companies to compete for Medicare clients, while Mr. Gore has proposed adding a subsidy for prescription drug coverage to the current Medicare plan.
While Mr. Bush has recently accused the administration of presiding over a weakening of the military, the issue did not register much with voters. And many seemed confused about the state of the nation's missile defense capability.
Half the voters agreed with Mr. Bush's assertion that the military has weakened under Mr. Clinton. Just under half said it had either strengthened or stayed the same over the last eight years.
But half the voters said they thought that the United States had a missile defense system, although it does not; only 28 percent knew that the country does not have one. One explanation may be that nearly 7 of 10 respondents said they had not heard or read much about the debate over proposals for a missile defense system.
Even so, 4 of 10 voters said it was very important that the United States try and build a missile defense system; two-thirds said they favored such an effort, even though the government has already spent $60 billion trying to develop one.
While Mr. Bush has repeatedly called upon Mr. Gore to elevate the discourse and not sink to harsh commercials, voters gave the vice president higher marks for his advertising campaign. Two-thirds of voters said Mr. Gore was spending more time explaining what he would do as president than he was spending attacking Mr. Bush; half said the same of Mr. Bush.
More than a third of voters have seen advertisements for Mr. Bush, and they are divided over whether they mostly explain things about Mr. Bush or attack Mr. Gore. About a third have seen advertisements for Mr. Gore. But those viewers, decisively, say Mr. Gore's commercials explain things about Mr. Gore rather than attack Mr. Bush.
In the voter interviews, many said Mr. Gore's selection of Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut spiced up the ticket, especially when Mr. Lieberman was compared with Dick Cheney, who even many Republicans say has not been as beneficial to Mr. Bush as a running mate.
"The move to choose Lieberman took a lot of guts and was brilliant," said Nati Gottlieb, 53, an insurance salesman in Philadelphia. "That move stopped Bush dead in his tracks and started his current momentum."
Despite such comments, the poll reinforced the accepted wisdom that running-mate choices do not matter much. Mr. Cheney and Mr. Lieberman are each well liked, and each is about twice as likely to be viewed favorably as unfavorably. But most people still have no opinion of them. And more than half of the voters said the selections did not make them any more, or less, inclined to vote for Mr. Bush or Mr. Gore.
Voters did not sound exercised about the frequent references to his faith by Mr. Lieberman, an Orthodox Jew. Voters said it was perfectly appropriate for candidates to discuss their religious beliefs, and a majority said none of the Democratic or Republican candidates had used their religion improperly.
On the topic of televised debates, a subject that has dominated much of the campaign news in recent weeks, 49 percent said they believed Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush wanted to debate; 21 percent said only Mr. Gore wanted to debate and 10 percent said only Mr. Bush wanted to take part. Eighty-six percent said the bipartisan Commission on Presidential Debates should hold the events; the Bush campaign had earlier sought other sponsors.
This is only the third time in 40 years that a presidential contest has been this close immediately after Labor Day, and that may be why more voters now say the race is interesting -- and not dull. Fifty-three percent say it is interesting; 39 percent say it is dull.
A continuation of such interest could spur turnout in the range of 50 percent to 55 percent, slightly higher than in 1996.
In 1980, the contest between Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan was a dead heat at this point, with Mr. Reagan pulling ahead only over the final weekend. In 1960, the match-up between Richard M. Nixon and John F. Kennedy was equally tight at this stage, and stayed that way until Mr. Kennedy's narrow victory.
"It's going to be one of the best horse races we've had in the country since Kennedy and Nixon," said Senator Peter G. Fitzgerald, Republican of Illinois. "The Bush campaign is going to have to do most everything right between now and November to win. And it will not be easy."
Paul Maslin, a Democratic pollster, put it this way: "This race is shaping up to be more like Kennedy-Nixon than anything else, mostly because of the closeness but also because of the dynamics of an incumbent hanging on with the country in pretty good shape but against a tough challenger."
 
How the Poll Was Conducted
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Saturday through Monday with 1,050 adults throughout the United States. Of these, 843 said they were registered to vote.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country.
Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, age and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
For smaller subgroups, the margin of sampling error is larger.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variations in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs show opinion poll results on the candidates. (Source: Polls by The New York Times and CBS news)(pg. A1)
 
Chart: "Opinions Shift in Race for President"
 
TOTAL
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 39%
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 42%
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): -4%
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +4%
 
Male
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 45
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 39
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): +1
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +3
 
Female
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 35
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 46
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): +1
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +3
 
Northeast
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 26
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 60
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): -8
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +8
 
North Central
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 41
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 34
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): 0
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): -2
 
South
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 48
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 37
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): -1
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +1
 
West
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 39
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 42
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): -8
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +14
 
Republican
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 81
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 10
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): -1
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +2
 
Independent
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 36
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 35
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): -3
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +5
 
Democrat
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 6
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 79
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): -6
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +5
 
Suburbs
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 42
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 40
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): -5
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +6
 
Not high school graduate
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 27
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 53
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): -10
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +7
 
High school graduate
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 41
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 40
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): +4
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): -4
 
Some college
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 39
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 42
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): -9
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +8
 
College graduate
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 44
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 37
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): -6
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +2
 
Household income Under $15,000
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 33
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 38
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): -10
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +5
 
Household income $15,000 - $30,000
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 35
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 47
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): -6
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +7
 
Household income $30,000 - $50,000
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 46
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 37
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): +2
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): -1
 
Household income $50,000 - $75,000
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 37
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 45
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): -12
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +12
 
Household income Over $75,000
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 39
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 47
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): -5
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +5
 
18-29 years
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 34
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 41
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): -16
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +25
 
30-44 years
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 44
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 40
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): +2
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): -1
 
45-64 years
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 36
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 42
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): -4
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +1
 
64 years or more
Latest poll (BUSH/CHENEY): 41
Latest poll (GORE/LIEBERMAN): 46
Change in voter opinion since late July (BUSH): -5
Change in voter opinion since late July (GORE): +14
 
Based on 843 registered voters nationwide, interviewed by telephone
Sept. 9-11. Change is measured from an earlier New York Times/ CBS News poll taken July 20-23. The latest poll included each party's full ticket; the earlier poll asked only about the presidential candidates. Undecided voters, including those who initially said they were undecided but who later said they lean toward a candidate, are not shown. Minor party candidates are not shown. Two July polls were averaged for the lowest education group. (pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST US (53%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL CBS NEWS DIVISION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MIDWEST US (53%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PUBLIC OPINION; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US); ELECTION ISSUES POLLS & SURVEYS (95%); VOTERS & VOTING (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US GREEN PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); US LABOR DAY (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (55%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); ELDER, JANET; BERKE, RICHARD L AL GORE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOE LIEBERMAN (91%); RALPH NADER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



297 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: FRESHMAN CLASS GROWS AT CUNY, REVERSING TREND

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
The number of new freshmen in the senior colleges at the City University of New York this fall has risen by 5 percent, and at some campuses by more than 20 percent, according to preliminary figures provided by the university.
The increase, the first in five years, comes despite predictions that CUNY's new policy of ending remedial instruction at CUNY's senior colleges would cut sharply into enrollment. This is the first year that the new policy is being applied on some campuses. 
 CUNY officials attributed the gain to better-educated applicants, more aggressive recruiting efforts and their efforts to rebuild CUNY's image. They said that students who might once have rejected CUNY as a remedial factory were now seeking admission and that 87 percent of the applicants -- up from 80 percent a year ago -- were able to pass the entrance examinations.
"This increase shows that the reputation of the university has improved and is attracting more and better students," said Louise Mirrer, CUNY's vice chancellor for academic affairs.
But there were more skeptical explanations as well.
Leaders of the faculty union said they feared that CUNY was bending its admissions guidelines to fill seats, and taking in unprepared students whom it could no longer serve well, and that the numbers did not reveal whether minority students were being squeezed out of the senior colleges.
"A large number of students came in at the last minute, and the first question is who these students are and whether they are prepared," said Steven London, the first vice president of the faculty and staff union, the Professional Staff Congress.
He said that many of the students who signed up at on-the-spot recruiting drives were admitted without providing academic or financial records. "How many of these students will be here in a month or two, I don't know," he said.
On at least one campus, Brooklyn College, where freshman enrollment rose by 24 percent, there was a sharp increase in the number of students admitted through its SEEK program for economically and educationally disadvantaged students who do not meet the college's regular entrance criteria. (SEEK stands for Search for Education, Elevation and Knowledge.)
While the SEEK students will not be taking remedial classes, their academic background is considered roughly equivalent to those admitted as remedial students in previous years. SEEK is mandated by the State Legislature. About two-thirds of the increase in Brooklyn's freshmen enrollment (to 1,315 from 1,057 last year) can be attributed to the increase in SEEK students.
But Dr. Mirrer maintained that an improvement in CUNY's rigor and reputation was responsible for the increased enrollment. She said that at the senior colleges, which have been raising their own entrance requirements in recent years, more students were arriving with stronger high school records.
She said that the number of students with four or more years of high school English, for example, had risen by 10 percent to 11,381 this year, while those with three or more years of college preparatory mathematics had climbed 6 percent, to 11,132. At the same time, she said, the number of students with grade point averages of 80 or higher (10,739) had risen by 6 percent.
She said that CUNY did not yet have data about the racial and ethnic composition of the incoming class and could not say yet whether it had changed since last year.
The increase in freshmen helped stabilize CUNY's overall enrollment, which has fallen since 1994, when it reached a recent peak of 212,634 students. Total enrollment late last week was 195,620, up three-tenths of 1 percent from last year. CUNY officials expect to revise the figures when they take their formal student census next month, but do not expect the trends to change.
"People are beginning to think of CUNY as not the school of last resort," said Larry Edwards, the liaison between CUNY and the Board of Education and deputy to both chancellors. "It's all perception, and perceptions are beginning to change."
Bernard Sohmer, president of the university faculty senate, said he expected the enrollment figures to be slightly lower in October when the formal student census occurs, but expected that the freshmen totals would still show gains.
"I don't think the increase will turn out to be 5 percent, but I do think something positive has happened," he said. "There seems to be a turnaround."
Many public universities, including the State University of New York, have shown enrollment gains in recent years as a college degree has become more important to earn a decent salary.
Tuition is $3,200 a year at CUNY's senior colleges, compared with $3,400 at SUNY. A SUNY spokesman said he did not yet have data on enrollments for this year, but that the number of freshmen at SUNY's four-year colleges grew 4 percent (to 29,007) last year.
CUNY began to lose enrollment in 1994, as it struggled with cutbacks in its state aid and growing attacks from Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Gov. George E. Pataki and its own board members, including Herman Badillo -- now the chairman -- who asserted that the education it offered was second-rate.
"There was a lot of rancor and negativity," said Matthew Goldstein, CUNY's chancellor.
He said that CUNY lost students when it imposed a one-year limit on remedial work at the senior colleges in 1995; he also said it lost more than 20,000 students on public assistance when the city began to require welfare recipients to work.
In 1998, CUNY's trustees voted to stop admitting any remedial students to the senior colleges. Under its new policy, students who cannot demonstrate their readiness for college-level English and math may not enroll in bachelor's degree programs, but may enroll in the two-year community college programs. To demonstrate they do not need remediation, they have to either pass CUNY's own placement tests or show that they scored at least 75 on the English and math Regents or at least 480 out of 800 on each of the math and verbal sections of the College Board's SAT tests.
The new policy took effect on 7 of CUNY's 11 senior college campuses this year, and will take effect at the others next year.
Nearly all the colleges where the new policy is in effect showed increases in freshmen this year, many of them sizable. Baruch College showed an increase of 15 percent. Queens College was up 10 percent. Brooklyn was up 24 percent, including its bigger population of SEEK students.
Although the number of Hunter College freshmen declined by 3.6 percent this year, campus officials said they had to turn away applicants because their total enrollment had climbed.
"We could not accommodate any more freshmen," said Evangelos J. Gizis, the college's acting president.
Baruch College, too, said it shut its door to eligible transfer students seeking to enter its business program in early July because its classes were full.
"People working on Wall Street are knocking on our doors," said Jim Murphy, Baruch's executive director for admissions and financial aid.
He said that the college, which admits all eligible applicants, not only admitted more freshmen this year (2,992, up from 2,623 last year), but a slightly higher percent of those accepted for admission actually enrolled. He said the average combined College Board scores for the new students were 1,060, up 7 points from last year and up 50 points from 1997. A third of the freshmen had scores of 1,150 or higher.
At City College, where the new policy does not take effect until next year, freshmen enrollments are up 29 percent. Zeev Dagan, the college's provost, said he thought much of the increase resulted from improved services and recruitment.
"When we got our lists of admits, we started calling students, and we offered placement tests every weekend," he said. "They didn't even have to make an appointment."
More than 25,000 students have enrolled at CUNY as freshmen this year, up 5.4 percent from last year. The number jumped about 5 percent at both the four-year colleges and the community colleges.
Not all the colleges had increases in their freshmen classes. Besides Hunter, New York City Technical College, Lehman College and Medgar Evers all saw declines, ranging from 4 percent at New York City Tech to 18 percent at Medgar Evers.
Ricardo R. Fernandez, president at Lehman, said he and his staff were still trying to determine the reasons for the 12 percent decline in incoming freshmen. He said one question was whether the number of of high school graduates in the Bronx had changed now that students have to pass Regents exams to graduate.
Edison Jackson, Medgar Evers's president, said that the college had received many late registrants after the preliminary figures were gathered last week and that he now expected to show a 10 percent increase in freshmen.
"The average age of our students is 34," he said, "They have to get their kids into school first, and then they come to us."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nafeeza Uddin, left, a junior at Brooklyn College, tutors Mamta Singh, right, in a program for disadvantaged students. Such students accounted for most of the college's 24 percent rise in the college's freshman class. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 
Chart: "UPDATE: CUNY Enrollment Rises in 2000"
First-time freshmen enrolled after the first week of fall classes at CUNY senior colleges.
 
City
1999: 828
2000: 1,070
PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +29.2
 
Brooklyn
1999: 1,057
2000: 1,315
PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +24.4
 
Baruch
1999: 1,165
2000: 1,340
PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +15.0
 
John Jay
1999: 1,407
2000: 1,552
PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +10.3
 
Queens
1999: 1,037
2000: 1,142
PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +10.1
 
York
1999: 461
2000: 500
PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +8.5
 
Staten Island
1999: 1,851
2000: 1,916
PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +3.5
 
Hunter
1999: 1,920
2000: 1,851
PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -3.6
 
NYC Technical
1999: 2,476
2000: 2,381
PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -3.8
 
Lehman
1999: 644
2000: 566
PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -12.1
 
Medgar Evers
1999: 695
2000: 570
PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -18.0
 
Total
1999: 13,547
2000: 14,203
PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +4.8%
(Source: CUNY Office of Institutional Research Analysis)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK; BROOKLYN COLLEGE CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (96%); STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK; BROOKLYN COLLEGE CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (96%); STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ADMISSIONS STANDARDS; ADMISSIONS STANDARDS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (71%); 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



298 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: BANKING'S BIG DEAL: THE TREND;
A Deal Built on Weakness, and Strength

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
A generation ago, six major commercial banks dominated the financial world in New York, which itself was the financial capital of the world's largest economy.
Now J. P. Morgan -- the last of those six to stay independent -- is about to be bought, in the latest example of a trend toward financial concentration. If the planned takeover by Chase Manhattan is completed, it will bring together four of the six biggest banks in New York, circa 1980. And yet the combination reflects weakness as much as strength, as both institutions seek growth in areas where their previous efforts have not been especially successful. 
 Two decades ago, the commercial banks were dominant because they were the major financial intermediaries for both individuals and companies. Investment banks and insurance companies had their own niches, some quite profitable, but none of them seemed to be in a position to challenge the big banks as financial powerhouses.
What happened? Beginning in the 1970's, the commercial banks' dominance of their franchise diminished as corporations discovered they could save money by issuing securities rather than borrowing from banks. As the stock market boomed for years, investors' money flowed out of banks and into stocks and mutual funds.
And the commercial banks were hobbled by a series of loan debacles that damaged some severely and hurt all to some extent, whether in real estate or loans to third world countries. It took years for the banks to recover from those problems, and by then their competitors were ahead of them in many areas.
On top of that, Depression-era laws aimed at protecting banks from possible losses in securities made it difficult for them to move into other financial products. By the time those laws were largely repealed, it was the investment banks that were dominant.
At the close of trading yesterday, Chase Manhattan -- a company that includes the former Chemical New York and Manufacturers Hanover Banks -- had a market capitalization of $66 billion, and J. P. Morgan had shares valued at $29 billion.
By contrast, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, the investment banking company descended from J. P. Morgan, had a market capitalization of $121 billion. Morgan Stanley was split from Morgan after the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933 required the separation of investment banks and commercial banks. For decades no one doubted that J. P. Morgan itself had made the right decision by sticking to commercial banking. Now it will be subsumed, while Morgan Stanley is a dominant company.
The trend of financial consolidation, said H. Rodgin Cohen, a partner in Sullivan & Cromwell and a lawyer involved in many bank mergers -- but not in the Chase-Morgan talks -- can be traced largely to three factors: "convergence, globalization and technology."
By convergence, he refers to the fact that many financial institutions can now offer similar products, in contrast to the old days of protected turf. Globalization has put a premium on gaining strength in markets around the world, and the heavy costs of installing new technology have made it much more difficult for small players to compete.
There are many areas where Chase and Morgan would seem to complement each other. "They can fill in each other's gaps," said Ronald Mandle, an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. Chase's strongest position is in equity securities is in technology stocks, thanks to its acquisition of Hambrecht & Quist. Morgan has a broader equity business, but is not strong in technology. "Morgan is stronger in Europe and Chase is a leader in syndicating U.S. loans," he said.
In 1980, the largest New York-based bank was Citibank. It still holds that position, but it is now part of Citigroup, which was formed by the merger of Citicorp, Citibank's parent, and Travelers, the large insurance and investment banking company run by Sanford I. Weill. While the Citi name survived, the bank is now part of a much larger company mainly run by executives who came from outside.
Chase ranked second among New York banks in 1980, followed by Manufacturers Hanover, Morgan, Chemical and Bankers Trust. Chemical and Manufacturers Hanover merged in 1991, and then acquired Chase (and its name) in 1995. Bankers Trust sold to Deutsche Bank, a German institution, in a deal annnounced in 1998.
The two non-New York banks in the top eight, as compiled by American Banker in 1980, have not fared much better. Bank of America, then No. 1, and Continental Illinois, then No. 7, have joined and both have been taken over by what was, in 1980, North Carolina National Bank, which ranked 26th in the nation.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (80%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN BANK; MORGAN, J P, & CO JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); SULLIVAN & CROMWELL LLP (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN BANK; MORGAN, J P, & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (87%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); MERGERS (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); INSURANCE (71%); FOREIGN LENDING (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (62%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



299 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14
 
Fuel Price Protests Are Squeezing Britain
Protests over high fuel prices all but halted gasoline deliveries across Britain, forcing most service stations to close for lack of fuel. Ambulance and fire services were cut back and many hospitals canceled all but essential procedures. Some diesel train lines were canceled. The protests continued to spread through Western Europe, where truck drivers, farmers and small-business people have formed impromptu coalitions to protest high fuel prices. A1
 
No Attack to Force Inspections
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, speaking with reporters after addressing the opening session of the United Nations General Assembly, said the United States would not use force to make Iraq allow international arms inspections to resume. A12 

Annan Presses U.N. to Act
Secretary General Kofi Annan told the opening session of General Assembly that he wanted action to reorganize and strengthen peacekeeping operations and to enlarge the Security Council to give it a stronger voice for developing nations. A12
 
Sanctions on Austria Lifted
The European Union lifted its sanctions against Austria, seven months after hurriedly imposing a diplomatic freeze on Vienna for bringing a rightist party into its governing coalition. But the Europeans said they remained concerned about the party's role in the government and vowed to stay vigilant. A6
 
Protests at Australia Forum
Thousands of protesters tried to sabotage the meeting of the World Economic Forum in Melbourne, a few days before the Olympics are to open there, clashing with riot police and blocking the conference site. A9
 
Holocaust Settlement Plan
A special master appointed by a federal judge overseeing a class action lawsuit has submitted a plan for distributing $1.25 billion in settlement payments from Swiss banks to Holocaust victims who have fought for decades to recover their savings. A3
 
World Briefing A14
 
NATIONAL A17-21
 
Race is Neck-and-Neck As Gore Gains, Poll Shows
A New York Times/CBS News Poll shows 42 percent of registered voters favoring Vice President Al Gore and 39 percent favoring Gov. George W. Bush. Mr. Gore is now as highly regarded as Mr. Bush on matters of character, leadership and personal popularity. Mr. Gore has made substantial gains among women, independent voters and middle-income groups. While Mr. Bush's support has ebbed somewhat overall, he has the overwhelming support of men, Midwesterners and Southerners. A1
 
Mr. Bush said the brief appearance of the word "rats" in a campaign commercial was a fluke and not an attempt to send a subliminal message about Mr. Gore. A19
 
Moral Victory for Buchanan
The F.E.C. issued an "initial determination" upholding Patrick J. Buchanan's claim to $12.6 million in disputed federal campaign funds earmarked for the Reform Party nominee, though the money was withheld pending a final determination. A18
 
Effort on Patients' Rights Bill
Congressional supporters of a patients' bill of rights said they had revised the legislation passed by the House last year, to win the votes of a few more Senate Republicans. A21
 
Wrangling in Secrets Case
The government and defense lawyers continued arguing over a plea agreement in which the former Los Alamos scientist Wen Ho Lee admits to one count of improperly downloading nuclear secrets in return for his release. And government officials began finger-pointing over the virtual collapse of their case. A17
 
U.S. Death Penalty Review
Attorney General Janet Reno ordered United States attorneys to help explain stark racial disparities in federal death penalty cases. A17
 
A Black Mayor for Selma
James Perkins Jr. defeated Joseph T. Smitherman, the former segregationist who has been mayor of Selma, Ala., since the 1960's. A20
 
Limits on R-Rated Movies' Ads
Walt Disney said it would no longer accept advertising for R-rated movies on any programs on its ABC television network that are broadcast before 9 p.m., Eastern time. A21
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-9
 
A Crime Alarm System For a Whole City Block
An Upper East Side block, 77th Street between Second and Third Avenues, will soon test a new anti-crime technology that lets residents use a small electronic device to set off an outside siren and lights and notify the police of a crime. A1
 
Surviving in the City
An economic study found that, depending on where in New York City a family lives, bare-bones needs for a family with children cost two to five times more than the $14,150 national poverty level set for a family of three by the federal government. B1
 
Mrs. Clinton Wins Primary
Hillary Rodham Clinton easily beat Dr. Mark S. McMahon for the Democratic Senate nomination. Representative Michael P. Forbes, a Democrat from Long Island who quit the Republicans in 1999, faced a strong challenge from Regina Seltzer. B1
 
OBITUARIES B10
 
EDUCATION B11
 
CUNY Enrollments Are Up
The number of new freshmen at City University senior colleges rose 5 percent this fall, and at some campuses by more than 20 percent, despite predictions that ending remedial instruction would cut enrollment. A1
 
ARTS E1-14
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH
 
Evidence of a Great Flood
Scientists said a well-preserved structure, possibly thousands of years old, lies in the Black Sea off Turkey. It could prove that people thrived on an ancient shoreline before a great flood, perhaps the flood that inspired the story of Noah. A4
 
New Class of Black Hole
Astronomers cited evidence of a new class of black holes -- bigger than those formed from collapsed stars but much smaller than the giants found at the centers of galaxies. A20
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-32
 
Chase-Morgan Merger Talks
Chase Manhattan was expected to announce it was acquiring J. P. Morgan for $30.9 billion in stock. A1
 
Psst, Pay Less Tax! Pass It On
A company called Tax People, which teaches tax-avoidance techniques to ordinary taxpayers, says it has signed up 50,000 people who want to learn how to set up and use a home business to pay less taxes -- that business being the teaching of tax-avoidance techniques to others. A1
 
Falling Out Between Partners
Ford and Firestone traded accusations at a Senate hearing over responsibility for deaths from rollovers involving Ford Explorers and Firestone tires. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
SPORTS D1-10
 
House Arrest for Strawberry
Darryl Strawberry was sentenced to two years' house arrest in Tampa, Fla., for violating his probation. D3
 
DINING F1-14
 
EDITORIAL 22-23
 
Editorials: The latest oil shock; Congress's obligation to nature; subliminal headache for Mr. Bush.
 
Columns: Paul Krugman, Maureen Dowd.
 
Crossword E6
TV Listings E13
Public Lives B2
Weather D9
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); AUSTRIA (87%); AUSTRALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (52%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (54%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (54%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); AUSTRIA (87%); AUSTRALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (90%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TRAINS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CLASS ACTIONS (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (66%); HOLOCAUST (64%); LITIGATION (64%); JUDGES (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (61%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



300 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Caribbean, Badly Hurt, Is Promised Help on AIDS

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: BRIDGETOWN, Barbados, Sept. 12

 BODY:
With the Caribbean facing the highest rate of H.I.V. infection outside of sub-Saharan Africa, international donors and banks have pledged at least $120 million to support a regional strategy to combat the disease, they announced today.
The announcement, which included a World Bank proposal for $85 million to $100 million in loans, came at the end of a conference on AIDS in the Caribbean at which many speakers emphasized that the epidemic threatened to undo the social and economic development in the region. 
 Official estimates put the number of H.I.V. and AIDS cases at 360,000, but many health experts said the actual number exceeded 500,000 because of underreporting.
While the average rate of infection of the total population is about 2 percent -- compared with 8 percent in sub-Saharan Africa -- it has burdened the region's smaller economies. It has also forced political leaders to acknowledge the need to act, rather than to stay quiet because of fears of breaking taboos or scaring off the tourists that are a mainstay of many Caribbean economies.
"We do not have a choice in the matter -- we must act now," said Prime Minister Owen Arthur of Barbados. "The Caribbean has never lost a generation of its most talented young people because of war or natural disaster. It is in danger of doing so because of the pandemic of AIDS. With it goes the hope, promise and idealism of the best educated and most creative minds in the history of the Caribbean people."
The spread of the disease has been fueled by tourism, migration between islands, poverty, and religious and cultural resistance to the use of condoms and sex education. While Haiti and the Dominican Republic account for a vast majority of cases -- the infection rate is 12 percent in parts of Haiti -- growing concern about the spread of H.I.V. led the Caribbean Community to form an AIDS task force in 1998 to develop a regional plan to help members track and treat the disease.
More new cases of H.I.V. infection were diagnosed in the region between 1995 and 1998 than in all the previous years since the disease was first identified, and as in Africa it is spread largely by heterosexual contact. In the English-speaking Caribbean it has become the leading cause of death for men and women aged 15 to 44.
Yet many nations are spending only a fraction of what it costs for treatment and prevention. Current spending is about 10 percent of the estimated $258 million a year needed for effective regional treatment and prevention.
The financing pledged today would bolster existing efforts by the Caribbean Community and its regional partners, while individual nations would be expected to review their own spending to see what costs could be covered in existing budgets.
The United States, which has supported anti-AIDS programs in several of the worst-hit countries in the Caribbean, did not pledge a specific amount because of continuing budget discussions in Washington.
While international aid will help combat the disease, Mr. Arthur underscored the need for a regional approach to build on longstanding collaborations in health, research and economic matters.
"There has been stigma and discrimination," he said. "There has been the usual Caribbean serendipity that the solution to the problem will be found elsewhere and applied here."
This week's conference is the latest in a series of recent events in which AIDS has dominated regional discussions. In June, during a meeting of Caribbean finance ministers in Washington, officials from the World Bank and international health organizations placed the disease and its threat in sobering context.
The ministers learned of estimates that the cost of treating the disease, as well as the loss of life and income, could reduce gross domestic product in Jamaica by 6.4 percent and in Trinidad and Tobago by 4.2 percent by 2005. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (57%); 

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (99%); AFRICA (94%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (93%); BARBADOS (92%); HAITI (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT WORLD BANK (57%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN AREA; CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (99%); AFRICA (94%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (93%); BARBADOS (92%); HAITI (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; FOREIGN AID AIDS & HIV (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SEX EDUCATION (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BUDGETS (77%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); NATURAL DISASTERS (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



301 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1709 words

HEADLINE: Family Needs Far Exceed The Official Poverty Line;
Study Lays Out Costs of Getting By in City

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
Carol Williams did not need an economic study to prove that her $24,000-a-year job as an administrative assistant could not support three children in New York, even when squeezed into a one-bedroom, $600-a-month apartment in the Bronx.
"By the time I paid my car payments and my car insurance and some bills, I was broke," said Ms. Williams, a widow. "Most of the time we were scrambling to buy food." 
 There was nothing wrong with her budgeting skills. Though the federal government says poverty in New York City officially ends at $14,150 for a household of three -- just as it does in Brooklyn, Miss., or Manhattan, Kan. -- Ms. Williams and many residents like her have found that getting by takes tens of thousands of dollars more.
In fact, according to a study that scrutinized basic family expenses in the five boroughs, meeting bare-bones needs in the city costs two to five times more than the national poverty levels for families with children.
As a working parent in the Bronx with three children, for example, Ms. Williams would need $38,088 to cover a no-frills budget for housing, child care, food, taxes, health care, transportation and other basic out-of-pocket costs, even after tax credits, according to the study. The study is to be released today by its local sponsors, the Women's Center for Education and Career Advancement, the New York Community Trust and the United Way of New York City.
In Queens, Robbin Davis often helps feed her family by bringing in leftovers from the lunches she prepares for the elderly for $7 an hour at a settlement house. In that borough, an adult with a preschooler and a school-age child needs a full-time job paying $22.18 an hour, or $46,836 a year, to be self-sufficient. And in the southern half of Manhattan, the same family would need $74,232, without budgeting a dime for a movie or a restaurant meal. Given that the city's median income is $50,600 for a household of three people, a substantial proportion of families here clearly have to scramble to make ends meet.
At a time when work is expected to serve as New York's main antipoverty program, the study highlights the gap between wages that disqualify working parents from public subsidies and the income they need to be independent, termed the "self-sufficiency standard." The study is part of a nationwide project to assess how much income is enough for families to meet their needs on their own.
The same methodology has found similar gaps in 13 other states and major metropolitan areas, but only San Francisco is more expensive than New York City for families across the board, said Diana Pearce, the University of Washington sociologist who supervises the national project.
An examination of costs in counties across New York State, also being released today, found that even in the lowest-cost jurisdiction -- Clinton County, whose major town is Plattsburgh -- income just above the poverty threshold is still less than half of what it takes to work and adequately support a typical family. And when adjusted for inflation, wages for middle-level and low-end jobs in New York actually declined during the 1990's, by 7.6 percent and 9.5 percent respectively, even as they rose modestly in the nation as a whole, according to a recent study by the Economic Policy Institute, a Washington-based research organization.
Yet the national poverty threshold remains the basis for calculating most aid here. And the minimum wage -- $5.15 an hour, or $16,148 a year, including tax credits -- is the same as in the rest of the nation, though much more than that salary left Ms. Williams short of money to feed her Bronx household. A closer look at some of the families struggling to bridge the gap reveals that low-income New Yorkers use many strategies to get by.
Ms. Davis, the woman in Queens, is still trying to work her way off welfare with her part-time job at the center in Queensbridge and hopes that training and a high school equivalency diploma will enable her to get a full-time job there. But each time her earnings increase, so does her rent on the public housing apartment in Astoria where she lives with her mother and her three children, sharing a bedroom with her daughter.
When the father of her 10-year-old son began paying $300 a month in child support, all but $50 went to the welfare department, which recently cut her remaining grant from $71.50 to $6.50. And because of the extra $50, her food stamp allotment was cut to $134 a month, from $163, she said.
Monique Wallace, a Brooklyn woman, feels that after a rocky start, she is close to making it. When pregnancy and illness forced her to leave an out-of-state college halfway through her sophomore year, she turned to the City Human Resources Administration's job center, but was turned away without a referral. She went to her local unemployment office in search of work after the birth of her daughter, Cheyenne, in September 1998, but was offered only minimum-wage jobs at fast-food restaurants, she said.
"They're sending me to Wendy's, and I have a daughter I've got to take care of," Ms. Wallace said. "And you know $5 an hour is not going to cut it." Instead, she followed a sign in the public library to the Women's Center.
"When she came to us, she was in tears," Merble Reagon, the executive director, recalled. "We told her, 'You can do this, Monique -- you're bright, you're motivated, and you want to be self-sufficient.' "
After an unpaid internship at PaineWebber and help with an intensive job search, Ms. Wallace landed a position at a financial services company as a receptionist. By January she had been promoted to sales representative, making $25,000 in base pay for selling life insurance. She expects to add $7,000 to $10,000 more in bonuses and commissions.
But she is still shy of the study's $35,940 self-sufficiency standard for an adult with one preschool child in Brooklyn. That figure is based in part on allotting $801 for renting a one-bedroom apartment, a modest fair-market rent according to housing surveys by the Census Bureau. It is also based on child care costs analyzed by the state for subsidies; on average health maintenance organization costs; and on $63 for a monthly Metro pass, among other expenses.
For now, Ms. Wallace shares a bedroom with her 2-year-old daughter in her mother's publicly subsidized apartment in East New York, and counts on her mother for what the study characterizes as a "private subsidy": child care at $80 a month, far below market rates.
Even so, Ms. Wallace was caught short this pay period when she resumed her college education with part-time classes. The $250 for her books fell due at the same time that cold weather demanded that her daughter's summer sandals be replaced with sneakers. Ms. Wallace said Cheyenne's father is a student and cannot pay child support for now.
"Everything is going to feel it," Ms. Wallace said, mentally dividing up her $735 check, received every two weeks. "I'll send less money to the phone bill. I guess it's going to affect the food. And I didn't even get her coat yet -- I'll get that maybe next week."
The compromises families make have hidden costs, Dr. Pearce said, and children often pay them. The self-sufficiency benchmark, she said, underlines the distortions of the poverty line, which was devised 40 years ago, when low-income families paid little in taxes and nothing for child care, because women were not expected to work.
"Unless these families get help with those major costs, such as child care, health care and shelter, they're not able to stabilize and become self-sufficient," she said.
For Ms. Williams of the Bronx, that struggle continues. She started her climb to higher wages with a church maintenance job at $15,000 a year and baby-sitting at $7 an hour for a Manhattan family -- a couple who could hardly afford more, she said, since they were living in a Manhattan studio apartment with two toddlers. She sent her own children to her mother's home in Virginia, she said, and child-welfare authorities there took them into custody, saying they were being abused.
Striving to win back her children from foster care, she discovered that she earned too little to rent an acceptable apartment, but too much to qualify for a state job training grant that could prepare her to earn more. Meanwhile, Virginia child-welfare authorities were claiming in a court petition that since she was working, she could pay them $12,000 in child support to cover foster-care costs.
Ms. Williams persevered with the help of the Women's Center, a 30-year-old nonprofit organization in Lower Manhattan that helps displaced homemakers prepare for employment. She completed a free computer bookkeeping course and an unpaid PaineWebber internship, passed her high school equivalency test, regained her children and landed a $24,000 office position at a children's residential treatment center in Westchester County. A tax refund covered the down payment on the car she needed to get there.
When her salary fell far short of family needs, she said, her reluctant solution was to add a second job -- moonlighting four nights a week as a youth counselor in one of the center cottages for $10 an hour. "I just got accustomed to not sleeping," she said.
The grueling schedule backfired badly this summer. She said her teenage son, already feeling abandoned after his stint in foster care, became involved with a gang after his older sister graduated from high school and joined the Navy. The private school where her younger daughter has a full scholarship warned that her grades were slipping. And Ms. Williams had to take off so much time to deal with these family problems that she lost her office job.
"They thought I was more effective working with the residents," said Ms. Williams, whose night shift and weekend work as a counselor pays about $22,000 a year now with overtime, some of it mandatory and unpredictable. She has sent her 17-year-old son to join his 19-year-old sister on the naval base in Norfolk, Va., hoping he will complete high school.
"I worked two jobs so long I'm going to rest for awhile," she said, "but I'll be out for a second job soon, because $22,000 is just not enough."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robbin Davis, right, with her children Lawrence, 10, in front; Jaleesa, 12, left; and Da-Shawn, 15. Ms. Davis brings home leftovers from her job preparing lunches for the elderly to feed her family.; Monique Wallace and Cheyenne, 2. Ms. Wallace's pay leaves her short of the standard for an adultand a preschooler. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times above ; Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times below )(pg. B1)
 
Chart: "Benchmarks in Annual Income"
WELFARE AND FOOD STAMPS -- for a family with one parent, one preschooler and one school-age child in New York City: $10,344
FEDERAL POVERTY LINE: $14,150
FULL-TIME MINIMUM WAGE SALARY: $16,478
SELF-SUFFICIENCY WAGE -- for a family with one parent, one preschooler and one school-age child, living in Queens: $46,836
MEDIAN FAMILY INCOME -- for all New York City families of three: $50,600
(Source: Women's Center for Education and Career Advancement)(pg. B1)
 
Chart: "LEDGER: Budgeting for Self-Sufficiency"
Typical monthly budget requirements for a family with one parent, one preschooler and one school-age child.
 
Living in Queens
HOUSING: $900
CHILD CARE: 1,234
FOOD: 439
TRANSPORTATION: 63
HEALTH CARE: 296
MISC.: 293
TAXES: 841
EARNED INCOME TAX CREDIT: 0
CHILD CARE TAX CREDIT: -80
CHILD TAX CREDIT: -83
MONTHLY WAGE FOR SELF-SUFFICIENCY: $3,903
HOURLY WAGE: $22.18
 
Living in Plattsburgh, N.Y.
HOUSING: $517
CHILD CARE: 740
FOOD: 372
TRANSPORTATION: 190
HEALTH CARE: 250
MISC.: 207
TAXES: 347
EARNED INCOME TAX CREDIT: -46
CHILD CARE TAX CREDIT: -80
CHILD TAX CREDIT: -83
MONTHLY WAGE FOR SELF-SUFFICIENCY: $2,414
HOURLY WAGE: $13.72
(Source: Women's Center for Education and Career Advancement)(pg. B6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: WOMEN'S CENTER FOR EDUCATION AND CAREER ADVANCEMENT; NEW YORK COMMUNITY TRUST; UNITED WAY NEW YORK COMMUNITY TRUST (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S CENTER FOR EDUCATION AND CAREER ADVANCEMENT; NEW YORK COMMUNITY TRUST; UNITED WAY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; PLATTSBURGH (NY); UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CHILDREN (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); FAMILY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PARENTS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); CITIES (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (74%); TRENDS (73%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (71%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); TAX LAW (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, NINA CAROL WILLIAMS (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



302 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: METRO BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Steve Strunsky

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
BRONX: RAPIST SOUGHT
The police are looking for a masked rapist who climbs in women's windows and attacks them at knifepoint. The rapist has struck three times, most recently yesterday, in the Morris Heights section, the police said. The same man is also suspected in a fourth incident in which he burst into a woman's apartment, threw a bottle at her and fled, said Officer Guy Brown, a police spokesman. The three rape victims were 21, 23 and 23 years old, Officer Brown said. The rapist also threatens to hurt the victims' children if they do not submit to him, said Capt. Geryl McCarthy. Andy Newman (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: SENTENCE IN THEFT OF MALCOLM X DIARY
The law clerk charged with stealing Malcolm X's diary from an evidence safe and selling it to a curio dealer was sentenced yesterday to five years of probation, a $5,000 fine and 150 hours of community service. Justice Jeffrey Atlas of State Supreme Court also ordered the clerk, Douglas Henderson, 42, to stay away from Malcolm X's family. Mr. Henderson, a clerk in the Manhattan Criminal Courts Building, interrupted his trial in July and pleaded guilty to third-degree grand larceny in exchange for a deal that kept him out of jail. Katherine E. Finkelstein (NYT) 

WASHINGTON: DEALING WITH BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM
A Federal General Accounting Office report on the New York region's response to the West Nile virus has concluded that government agencies are unprepared to deal with biological terrorism, Senator Charles E. Schumer said yesterday. Mr. Schumer vowed to ask Congress next year to double the $250 million now spent to combat biological terrorism. (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: BUS AND FIRE TRUCK COLLIDE
A transit bus and a fire truck collided at Fifth Avenue and 57th Street yesterday morning, injuring six firefighters, the bus driver and 10 passengers, officials said. The M2 bus, operated by the Metropolitan Transit Authority, was traveling south on Fifth Avenue, when it was struck by a New York City Fire Department ladder truck heading west on 57th Street. Firefighter Mike Pendergast, a department spokesman, said the truck was one of several that had responded to a high-rise fire at Broadway and 55th Street. (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: FIRE ON FERRY
A fire broke out yesterday on a high-speed commuter ferry linking Manhattan and Highlands, N.J., as it was mooring at South Street Seaport, officials said. The crew of the ferry, which is operated by SeaStreak America, had secured the bow line when smoke began billowing from the fan room, which draws hot air from the engine room, said Petty Officer Angel Patti of the Coast Guard. All 75 people aboard were evacuated safely. Firefighters from Engine Company 15 across the street worked with the crew to extinguish the fire. (NYT)
 
SLOATSBURG: 'SMART' BUSES ROLL OUT
Three buses that automatically announce stops to passengers began operating in Rockland County this week. The buses, which run from Sloatsburg to the Nanuet Mall, are programmed to say "The next stop is . . ." in English and Spanish. The buses are equipped with satellite-based global positioning systems that automatically determine the next stop, and announce it to passengers ahead of time. The system is to be installed on the county's entire fleet of 40 buses by January. (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: SUBWAY BEATING
A woman from the Bronx who is accused of beating a teenager on the Canal Street subway platform on Sept. 5 was ordered held on $25,000 bail yesterday, a day after turning herself in, officials said. The woman, Stepanie Ducker, 21, is charged with knocking down the victim, 19, then smashing her head against the concrete floor at least twice, said Barbara Thompson, a spokeswoman for the Manhattan district attorney's office. Ms. Thompson said the victim, who had rebuffed Ms. Ducker and fellow break dancers who were asking for money, was hospitalized. (NYT)
 
NEW JERSEY
 
ATLANTIC CITY: ARREST IN TRIPLE HOMICIDE
A casino security guard was arrested yesterday and charged in a roadside attack with an assault rifle that left three people dead last week. The guard, Lloyd Massey II, 21, surrendered yesterday. Mr. Massey got into an argument with Michael Demps, 20, of Pleasantville at a bar in Egg Harbor Township on Friday, the authorities said. When Mr. Demps left, in a car with three other men, Mr. Massey and a friend followed them into Atlantic City. At a red light, Mr. Massey jumped out and opened fire on the other car's occupants. The two victims beside Mr. Demps were Lamont Wilson, 21, and Richard White, 26, both of Pleasantville. (AP)
 
TRENTON: JOBLESS RATE UP IN AUGUST
New Jersey's unemployment rate rose to 4 percent in August, up from 3.7 percent in July, the State Labor Department announced yesterday. The number of private sector jobs grew by 2,000, but 2,800 temporary government employees lost their jobs because of completion of the census. A department spokesman pointed out that the state unemployment rate was still lower than the August national average of 4.1 percent. (NYT)
 
NEWARK: JET ENGINE FAILURES INVESTIGATED
The National Transportation Safety Board is investigating three engine failures on Continental Airlines jets since April, including two at Newark International Airport, the airline's hub. All three incidents occurred on DC-10 wide-body jets scheduled for retirement within two years, and involved damage to engines made by General Electric. All occurred before takeoff, and none resulted in injuries. A General Electric spokesman said the three incidents involved a loose exhaust valve that damaged the engine casing, and were the first such problems for 1,400 CF-6 engines now in use. (NYT)
 
CONNECTICUT
 
NEW HAVEN: ONE JUDGE FOR MALL SUITS
To ease the increasing legal load a $500 million mall proposal has put on the state court system, the state has designated a single Superior Court judge to hear most of the complaints, a court spokeswoman said. In the last two years, the mall's proponents, including New Haven city officials, and opponents, including Westfield America, a company that owns four malls in the state, have filed at least 16 lawsuits and legal petitions about the center, known as the Galleria at Long Wharf. Since July, most of the suits have been referred to Judge Beverly J. Hodgson of the court's Complex Litigation Docket in Waterbury. Paul Zielbauer (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (AMEX) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: T H E M INTERNATIONAL INC (53%); METROPOLITAN TRANSIT AUTHORITY HOUSTON (52%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES SEX OFFENSES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); TERRORISM (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (86%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (86%); FERRIES (85%); PROBATION (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); FIRES (75%); SENTENCING (74%); GUILTY PLEAS (74%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (74%); LITIGATION (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (68%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (68%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (66%); ARMED FORCES (60%); HARBORS & PORTS (60%); WEST NILE VIRUS (50%); VIRUSES (50%); 

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



303 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
LA-Z-BOY TO SHUT A PLANT IN OHIO, LAYING OFF 130 WORKERS

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
La-Z-Boy Inc., a leading maker of reclining chairs, said it plannned to close a plant in Swanton, Ohio, and lay off about 130 people as it scales back production of inexpensive furniture. The Swanton plant belongs to La-Z-Boy's Pilliod Furniture subsidiary, which also operates plants in Nichols, S.C., and Selma, Ala. Furniture imported from Asia cut into sales of Pilliod furniture, which is made from wood with a plastic veneer, said La-Z-Boy's treasurer, Mark Stegeman. Higher interest rates discouraged people from buying furniture on credit, he said. La-Z-Boy, which is based in Monroe, Mich., has about 22,000 employees, Mr. Stegeman said. It had sales of about $1.72 billion in the fiscal year ended April 29.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LZB (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS337121 UPHOLSTERED HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2512 UPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (91%); ALABAMA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: LA-Z-BOY INC LA-Z-BOY INC (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: LA-Z-BOY INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); OHIO, USA (91%); ALABAMA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: FURNITURE; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; PRODUCTION LAYOFFS (91%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (88%); FURNITURE MFG (88%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: MARK STEGEMAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



304 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Phone-Rate Link To Inflation Is Sought

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
Southern New England Telephone has asked Connecticut regulators to approve changes that would tie residential phone rates to the inflation rate.
Rates would be adjusted annually, according to a document filed Monday with the state's Department of Public Utility Control. 
 Residential rates would initially increase by 33 to 44 cents a month under the formula the company is requesting, said John Emra, a company spokesman.
Mr. Emra said the company's plan would gradually allow residential rates to rise to the point where other phone companies would be willing to compete for residential customers.
He said there was almost no competition for customers in the residential market because profit margins were not attractive enough.
Richard Blumenthal, the state attorney general, said the plan "offers nothing for consumers."
"I warned at the time of the S.N.E.T.-SBC merger that if the company's cost savings were not ordered to be shared up front, customers would not see their fair share of the savings," Mr. Blumenthal said of the 1998 merger of Southern New England Telephone, based in New Haven, and SBC Communications, based in San Antonio. "Judging from this filing today, S.N.E.T. is trying to make that prediction come true."
But Mr. Emra said Mr. Blumenthal's claim that Connecticut consumers had not benefited from the merger was not true. "S.N.E.T. and SBC are investing over $1 billion this year and next in its network here in Connecticut," Mr. Emra said.
The Department of Public Utility Control is not expected to rule on the request until February. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN NEW ENGLAND TELEPHONE AT&T INC (93%); DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITY CONTROL (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN NEW ENGLAND TELEPHONE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITY CONTROL (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INDEXING (ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT SYSTEM) TELEPHONE RATES (93%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); 

PERSON: BLUMENTHAL, RICHARD (ATTY GEN) RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000



305 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: POP REVIEW;
It's Sting's World: Exoticism, Torchy Ballads and the Good Life

BYLINE: By ANN POWERS 

 BODY:
The general mood surrounding Sting can be read almost as an economic indicator, like the number of new cars recently sold. In austere times the enduring hit-maker's gentility seems pompous, the privilege of an aristocrat in need of a quick beheading.
But when consumer confidence is up, Sting's aura seems graceful rather than pompous, his good life and smooth art enviable properties. This year, everybody loves Sting: his latest album, "Brand New Day" (Interscope), is riding a slow wave to the top on the strength of the catchy "Arabian Nights" tale "Desert Rose." Even the critics who love to pillory him admit that this latest effort is a pleasure. 
 On Tuesday night he joined the elite club of pop stars who have staged special events in Central Park, performing in the Great Meadow before 20,000 fans who obtained free tickets from the chain music store Best Buy, celebrating its entry into the New York market. This event capped a period in which Sting became the most sponsored star this side of the Backstreet Boys: his Web site (www.sting.compaq.com) and summer tour received support from the computer company Compaq, and "Desert Rose" gained popularity through a video and complementary television commercial featuring him promoting Jaguar luxury cars.
No one seemed the least bothered by Best Buy's ubiquity at Central Park; such deals do not undermine Sting's credibility because they are utterly congruous with his image. Sting's music is the sound of money well spent. His signature mix of torchy balladry and uplifting dance pop can absorb almost any outside influences, and he furnishes his songs with cosmopolitan touches like the Algerian rai music that underlies "Desert Rose" or the Cuban conjunto rhythms that occasionally enlivened Tuesday's show. It's the old colonialist way, updated for an age of corporate, rather than state, domination: if you love something, buy it up. It's possible to view Sting's genre-shopping as artistically commendable. After all, this is pop, whose essence is assimilation. In his groundbreaking band the Police, Sting rubbed reggae against punk to create a hybrid whose energy reflected the anxiety caused by such miscegenation. As he matured, Sting grew suspicious of rock's amateurishness and moved toward an ideal based in poised musical interplay instead of conflict. His belief in a true world music led him to form outstanding bands, including the one appearing Tuesday. It also pushed his music toward a rootlessness that can seem decadent.
His cosmopolitanism illuminates when it holds that seed of self-awareness. It's there in "Desert Rose," in the amazing second vocal by Cheb Mami, the Algerian rai vocalist who joined Sting as an opening act at the concert. Sting, the Englishman, can nearly match the North African's sinewy technique, but Sting's fairy-tale lyrics about a veiled seductress are undermined by the immediacy of Cheb Mami's voice. Performing the song with him, Sting finally surrendered, allowing his partner to lead its final crescendo. Humbly giving over to his inspiration, Sting proved himself a sensitive collaborator.
The same thing happened on his many jazz-inflected songs when he let his instrumentalists break out. The drummer Manu Katche added a suave French rap to "Perfect Love Gone Wrong" and agile syncopation throughout. The keyboardist Jason Rebello stood out as the most authoritative soloist, moving the band toward serious swing with his confident runs. The trumpeter Chris Botti and the guitarist Dominic Miller showed great skill but erred toward the side of vagueness; they settled for atmospherics when they should have shown some guts.
That was easier to do when Sting's songs themselves had a tougher core. He has a weakness for the poetry of rain, moon and sun, which turns his lyrics toward banality. He's not so great at dispensing moral lessons, either; the sentimental conclusion of "Fill Her Up," for example, sapped the life out of that country music parody, despite charming cameos by Sheryl Crow on vocals and Jonny Lang on guitar.
"Moon Over Bourbon Street," a wandering torch song in which Sting fancied himself a vampire, and the Police's "Roxanne," which allowed for an extended foray into dub reggae, had the edge Sting could always muster. The bass player also switched to guitar and showed off some dazzling Spanish fingerwork in "Fragile," the hymnlike final encore.
That devilish side that leads him to play with his musical sources and not just absorb them and to write from the perspective of a man who might be as corrupt as he is enlightened is the source of Sting's integrity. In this time of easy acquisition, few people care to wonder if he always maintains it. Times will toughen, though, and he'll need it again.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sting's concert in the Great Meadow in Central Park on Tuesday. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times); A seed of cosmopolitan awareness: Sting in Central Park. (Rahav Segev for The New York Times)(pg. E5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: ALGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARABIAN NIGHTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CENTRAL PARK (NYC); ALGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; REVIEWS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); MUSIC REVIEWS (76%); MUSIC STORES (76%); POP & ROCK (76%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); 

PERSON: STING (PERFORMER); POWERS, ANN

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



306 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
A true perennial early sign of autumn: new-car commercials.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
AUTUMN is nigh, and as lazy days at the beach soon give way to busy afternoons raking leaves, the air positively quivers with the promise of blazing jack-o'-lanterns, roasting turkeys and billions of dollars worth of advertisements peddling cars and trucks.
(What, you were expecting a paean to the changing seasons? Perhaps next week, on the editorial page.) 
 For the 2001 model year, which formally begins Oct. 1, automakers will eagerly try to gain attention in an American market more cluttered than ever, their efforts complicated by uncertainties ranging from gasoline prices to interest rates.
"It's incredibly difficult" to stand out, said Adrian Barrow, account planning director at Team One Advertising in El Segundo, Calif., a unit of the Publicis Groupe S.A. that will introduce tonight a campaign for the 2001 models of the Lexus LS 430 imported luxury sedan.
"If I see another silver car driving down a twisty road," he added, laughing, 'I'm going to gag."
To keep consumers from doing just that, agencies like Team One are scrambling to find compelling ways to sell vehicles.
"Good advertising is all about nuances," said Mark-Hans Richer, director of advertising and sales promotion for the GMC line of trucks and sport utility vehicles made by General Motors.
"GMC is a strong brand for some people," he added. "We needed it to be stronger for more people."
So in a $30 million campaign scheduled to begin on Sept. 22 by the New York office of Lowe Lintas & Partners Worldwide, a description of GMC products as "professional grade" -- appearing in some ads since 1998 -- is being broadened to include all models, from the Sierra and Yukon to the Envoy. "We are professional grade" is the theme of the campaign, which features GMC engineers involved in the creation and production of the '01 models.
"Everyone can appreciate a well-engineered vehicle, whether you're pulling a horse trailer or taking landscaping home from Home Depot," said Susan Cantor, executive vice president and managing director at Lowe Lintas, part of the Lowe Group unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
"In research, we discovered all consumers shared one mind-set: 'I'm smart, I'm in the know. And I want to do business with a company equally in the know,' " she added. "So we're going to give them the salient product points they need to buy a truck or S.U.V."
Contrasted to that practical, detailed approach is the more ethereal tack taken by the estimated $25 million campaign by Team One for the LS 430, formerly known as the LS 400. Its ads carry the theme "Imagine how you'll feel driving," which is dramatized with exuberant images ranging from a Roman piazza filled with dancing couples to a Tuscan countryside populated by singers warbling along with the Dinah Shore pop tune "Shoo Fly Pie and Apple Pan Dowdy."
"It's a romantic exaggeration, so to speak, an illustration of the emotional experience of driving the car, the third generation of our flagship model," said Greg Kitzens, corporate marketing manager for the Lexus division of Toyota Motor Sales USA in Torrance, Calif.
"We have been known more for the rational features of our cars," he added. "As we're introducing more stylish vehicles with more luxury and more performance, we're seeking a little more passion, a little more emotion, for our brand."
To underscore that goal, the LS 430 campaign also begins a revised theme for the Lexus division. "The passionate pursuit of perfection" will replace "The relentless pursuit of perfection."
As for Dinah Shore's fame for years of singing the "See the U.S.A. in Your Chevrolet" jingle, Mr. Kitzens said with a chuckle, "We hope 'Shoo Fly Pie' will be as catchy."
Catchy also describes a campaign with a budget of more than $20 million that is to begin tomorrow for the redesigned C-Class line of cars sold by the Mercedes-Benz unit of DaimlerChrysler. The campaign, focused on catching drivers in their 30's and 40's rather than the more typical C-Class buyers in their 50's and 60's, carries this theme: "The new C. Live. A lot."
The television, print, Internet and promotional campaign continues the more playful tone that has typified Mercedes-Benz advertising since 1995. In one TV spot, stylishly dressed people produce cartoon-style exaggerated responses when a C-Class car passes. Their eyes bulge out of their heads, steam pours from their ears and they float above the pavement in vignettes that seem to have been a result of the unlikely collaboration of Richard Avedon and Tex Avery.
"We want to reach and connect with" younger consumers who "we acknowledge live life a little differently," said Alex Gellert, partner at the Mercedes agency, Merkley Newman Harty in New York, part of the Omnicom Group. That is reflected in the line at the end of many of the ads for the C-Class, the lowest-priced Mercedes sold in this country: "And by all means, whatever you do, drive a cool car."
But if you're really cool, would you say you're cool?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Mercedes-Benz campaign this fall will continue to be playful and humorous, as in this TV spot in which stylishly dressed people produce cartoon-like exaggerated responses when a C-Class car passes. (Merkley Newman Harty) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (84%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (85%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; TELEVISION; ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); SEDANS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); SALES & SELLING (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); SALES PROMOTIONS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (59%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); OIL & GAS PRICES (55%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



307 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: French Farmer Is Sentenced to Jail for Attack on McDonald's

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 13

 BODY:
The farmer who became something of a national hero last year for leading an attack on a McDonald's restaurant was convicted of criminal vandalism today and sentenced to three months in prison.
Judge Francois Mallet, who delivered the verdict and the sentence in the nonjury trial, said he hoped the jail term would make the farmer, Jose Bove, "finally listen to reason." 
 The sentence was harsher than the token one-month prison sentence, with another nine months suspended, that the prosecutor asked for at the end of Mr. Bove's raucous trial in July.
Mr. Bove, a sheep farmer who has proved media savvy since his action made him a celebrity, looked somber as he left the courthouse. He vowed to continue his fight against globalization and what he views as bad food.
"It's not the risk of going to prison that is going to stop us from protesting," Mr. Bove said on the steps of the courthouse. "The important thing is for the movement to continue to grow whatever the price is that we may have to pay here today."
From the beginning it was clear that Mr. Bove's attack on the American fast-food giant had tapped into a deep well of public discontent and a feeling of powerlessness on subjects ranging from genetically modified foods to the power of the American economy.
His particular protest was prompted by the United States' decision to levy high tariffs on Roquefort cheese, pate de foie gras and other luxury imported food in retaliation for the European Union's decision to ban American hormone-treated beef. But it came to represent much more.
During his trial in the small southwestern town of Millau, thousands of supporters showed up. For two days the atmosphere of a French Woodstock prevailed as teenagers with green hair gathered along with middle-aged men with ponytails and retirees wearing T-shirts that said, "The world is not merchandise and I'm not either."
But today only a few dozen supporters were on hand in Millau, where the local industry is the production of Roquefort cheese. Few people in France expected Mr. Bove, who organized the attack, to be handed a jail term. In this country protesting is a national pastime and activists are rarely given prison sentences. None of Mr. Bove's nine co-defendants were sent to prison. Three were given two-month suspended sentences, five were fined about $300 and one was acquitted.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Bove, 47, said he was surprised by the verdict. "I think this is a very severe judgment," he said. "The magistrate didn't understand the movement or the motivation behind what we did."
He said an appeal had already been filed and that the trial would effectively take place again in about one year before the Court of Appeals. In the meantime, Mr. Bove, who now has a busy speaking schedule, a far more prominent job with his union and dinner invitations from high-level government officials, said he would keep up with his activities as usual.
Before the attack on the McDonald's, Mr. Bove was a local activist and union official living in a small stone farm tucked in the craggy hills of the Larzac region. His activism involved local issues, like opposing use of nearby land for an army base.
Nowadays, Mr. Bove, who has an amiable grin under his handlebar mustache, trots the globe. He said he would be in Bangalore, India, at the end of the month to take part in a protest against genetically modified grain. "The combat will continue," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (74%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (74%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (91%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (68%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S MCDONALD'S CORP (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCDONALD'S

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (91%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (68%); 

SUBJECT: MEAT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RESTAURANTS; FAST FOOD INDUSTRY; VANDALISM; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL) JAIL SENTENCING (93%); SENTENCING (92%); FAST FOOD (91%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); PROPERTY CRIMES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); VERDICTS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (86%); VANDALISM (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); SHEEP FARMING (73%); ACQUITTAL (72%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (70%); BEEF (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (62%); 

PERSON: DALEY, SUZANNE; BOVE, JOSE JOSE BOVE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



308 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: BANKING'S BIG DEAL: THE EMPLOYEES;
A Day to Be Nervous as Some Job Cuts Seem Certain

BYLINE: By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
Moments after e-mail messages went out to tens of thousands of employees of Chase Manhattan and J. P. Morgan yesterday morning announcing a proposed union of the two companies, Fritz Georges was one of the few willing to discuss publicly what many preferred remain private.
"Everyone is a little concerned," Mr. Georges said as he leaned against his black sedan outside J. P. Morgan's headquarters at 60 Wall Street, where he works as a driver for executives. "They don't know who is going to be next, who is on the line." 
 As company officials announced their plan for Chase Manhattan to acquire J. P. Morgan for more than $30 billion, some industry analysts speculated that the merged company could shed as many as 10,000 employees. Company executives, who declined to discuss specific numbers, acknowledged that they had several duplicate areas of business, as well as buildings and support services, that could be eliminated. But they said their target was to save about $500 million in employment costs, suggesting that cuts were likely to involve no more than a few thousand people.
The combined company, to be called J. P. Morgan Chase, would have about 100,000 employees worldwide, with roughly 18,000 based in New York, where both companies have their headquarters. Several thousand Chase employees in Manhattan are scheduled to move into a 45-story tower planned for Jersey City in the next few years.
"Whenever you have two giants, you are going to have a lot of people with the same job titles," said Gary Goldstein, president of the Whitney Group, a recruiting company.
To increase efficiency, Chase and J. P. Morgan will probably move quickly to cut jobs, the analysts said. Generally, the acquired company is the one that loses the most jobs, but analysts say it is unclear how that will play out, given J. P. Morgan's strengths.
As far as Mr. Georges was concerned, however, Chase, as the acquiring bank, can be expected to impose most of the cuts on J. P. Morgan employees. "There is an old saying that goes, 'Every new current carries its own fish,' " he said. "People are worried."
Jon Diat, a Chase Manhattan spokesman, declined to comment in detail about potential layoffs. Company officials said the merger could be completed by the first quarter of next year.
"This transaction is about growth," Mr. Diat said. "There is obviously some overlap between the two organizations. However, there should be a smaller percentage of job loss in New York City than in other mergers."
In an e-mail message to employees, William B. Harrison, Chase's chief executive, was a bit more candid. "Our merger is all about growth, but it will also provide opportunities to increase efficiency and reduce expenses," he wrote. "We expect savings from combining facilities and systems."
Mr. Harrison added that each employee would be given consideration based on merits. "Where there are overlapping jobs, some positions may need to be eliminated," he said. "Any decisions will be made fairly and objectively on a case-by-case basis."
In 1991, the merger of Chemical Bank and the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation eliminated more than 6,000 jobs. In 1995, Chemical's acquisition of Chase led to the elimination of even more jobs.
But unlike those mergers, this deal involves two banks that complement each other more than they overlap. Chase has been a full-service bank, weakest in investment banking, while J. P. Morgan focused on raising capital for top-tier corporations and managing the wealth of the monied elite.
"There is some natural benefit because they have different strengths," said Mitchell Moss, a professor at New York University.
By contrast, when Chase and Chemical combined, it was the union of two companies with large commercial bank operations.
But those caveats did not allay employees' concerns. Members of the banks' support staffs are vulnerable, while investment banking units with overlapping corporate managers, stock analysts and Chase's European operations probably face layoffs, analysts said. Chase's retail banking division, which has no counterpart at Morgan, is unlikely to be affected.
From investment bankers to data processors and executive secretaries, the mood outside the Manhattan offices of both companies was skittish, even as most reassured themselves that in view of the strong economy and healthy demand for talent, they could manage a soft landing even if the worst happened.
"Uncertainty, that's the key word," said one recently hired J. P. Morgan investment banker. "Especially in areas like foreign exchange and derivatives, where there is a lot of overlap."
Based on conversations he had in the weeks before the planned deal was announced, Mr Georges said "the secretaries of the big shots seem the most concerned."
"They know," he explained, "if their bosses go, they are the next to go." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN BANK; MORGAN, J P, & CO; MORGAN, J P, CHASE & CO JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); NEW YORK GIANTS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN BANK; MORGAN, J P, & CO; MORGAN, J P, CHASE & CO NEW YORK GIANTS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES LAYOFFS (90%); MERGERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ACQUISITIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (67%); 

PERSON: BLAIR, JAYSON; BLAIR, JAYSON P MORGAN CHASE (94%); FRITZ GEORGES (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



309 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
RUSSIA: KURSK WILL BE RAISED -- Russia is not reconsidering its decision to raise the submarine Kursk from the Barents Sea, Deputy Prime Minister Ilya Klebanov said. He added that he was surprised by remarks by the minister for atomic energy, Yevgeny Adamov, who suggested that it might be safer to leave the Kursk and its twin-reactor power plant on the seabed indefinitely. Mr. Klebanov, who heads the commission looking into the disaster, said the sub would be raised after the dead are recovered this fall. Patrick E. Tyler (NYT) 

RUSSIA: TREATY SIGNED -- Russia became the 112th country to sign the treaty setting up an international criminal court to try those accused of war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity. Nineteen countries have also ratified the treaty, of the 60 ratifications needed for the court to begin functioning. The United States has not signed, and is demanding an exemption for American soldiers and officials. Barbara Crossette (NYT)
 
TURKEY: EX-PREMIER'S JAILING DELAYED -- Prosecutors agreed to a four-month delay in jailing former Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan for remarks he made in 1994. A warrant was issued for Mr. Erbakan, 73, after he failed to show up to start serving a one-year sentence for telling a political rally Turkey had abandoned its Islamic roots and politicians had divided Kurds from other Turks. Mr. Erbakan's lawyers said his jailing would prevent him from defending two other cases. Douglas Frantz (NYT)
 
NORTHERN IRELAND: REBEL ACTION -- A mortar fired from a van on a hotel building site damaged a Royal Ulster Constabulary station in Armagh, and two bombs were deactivated before they could go off at a British Army training center near Londonderry. No one was hurt in the incidents, which were attributed to the dissident group the Real I.R.A. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
BELGIUM: UNION SLAYINGS -- At least 140 union activists were killed last year, mostly in Latin America and Asia, and organizing efforts were not adequately protected in industrialized economies, the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions said in its annual survey. Rights of union organizers were violated around the world, the Brussels-based group said, ranging from union busting to "ruthless repression." Elizabeth Olson (NYT)
 
BOSNIA: CROAT SURRENDERS -- A Bosnian Croat charged with war crimes against Muslims in Mostar in 1993 turned himself in to a regional court, officials said. The United Nations mission in Bosnia welcomed the surrender of Zoran Soldo, the second member a five-man gang that terrorized Mostar to give himself up. It also called on the police to arrest the three others. (Reuters)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
CANADA: JOURNALIST SHOT -- A columnist for Quebec's largest selling paper, Journal de Montreal, was shot in what a police spokesman called an assassination attempt. Michel Auger, 56, an expert on organized crime, was in stable condition. Paule Beaugrand-Champagne, the newspaper's editor in chief, noted that the attack came a day after a column by Mr. Auger detailed a drug turf war between Quebec's biker gangs and Mafia groups. James Brooke (NYT)
 
AFRICA
 
SOUTH AFRICA: WAR ON VIGILANTES -- Law enforcement officials said South Africa is at war with the vigilante group suspected of orchestrating a string of bombings in and around Cape Town for two years. The statement came hours after a bomb exploded near a community center where the provincial premier was about to speak. Several people were hurt. Henri E. Cauvin (NYT)
 
BURUNDI: TUTSI TO SIGN PACT -- The last three holdout Tutsi parties have agreed to sign an accord aimed at ending the country's civil war, Nelson Mandela, the mediator in the civil war, said after meeting with the leaders of the three groups at his home in Johannesburg. All 19 parties to the accord have now signed it, but two Hutu rebel groups continue to oppose the agreement. Henri E. Cauvin (NYT)
 
ASIA
 
JAPAN: CLINTON ORDERS SANCTIONS -- President Clinton ordered the first sanctions against Japan for expanding its hunting of whales, ordering that Japanese fishermen will be prohibited from fishing in United States waters if they are opened to foreign fleets this year. He acted after the Commerce Department ruled that Japan is undermining efforts to protect whales, saying he would consider more sanctions in the next 60 days. David E. Sanger (NYT)
 
INDIA: SURGERY FOR PRIME MINISTER -- Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee will have surgery on his left knee after he returns from his two-week visit to the United States, a government spokesman said. Mr. Vajpayee's health has been the cause of great speculation recently but the prime minister, who is 73, has insisted that his ailments begin and end with a bad knee. Barry Bearak (NYT)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
ISRAEL: CHANGING DESIRES -- Under the headline "The Jewish Mother No Longer Wants Her Son to Be a Doctor," the Yediot Ahronot published results of a poll of Israeli mothers. It showed that 40 percent want their children to go into the high-tech industry, 15 percent want them to become doctors, and only 2 percent want them to be rabbis. Deborah Sontag (NYT)
 
ISRAEL: SLOW JUSTICE -- The Israeli-Arab family that won a landmark Supreme Court case this year, earning the right to settle in the Jewish community of Katzir, has still not been able to move into the town. The Association for Civil Rights in Israel petitioned the state attorney to comply with the court's decision and allocate land to the family. Deborah Sontag (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (92%); TURKEY (92%); BELGIUM (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%); 

STATE: ARCTIC OCEAN (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (70%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (74%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (65%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (56%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (56%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (92%); TURKEY (92%); BELGIUM (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%); ARCTIC OCEAN (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (70%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (74%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (65%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (88%); WAR CRIMES (88%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (77%); ARMIES (76%); SHOOTINGS (75%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); SENTENCING (74%); GENOCIDE (74%); ARREST WARRANTS (74%); ARRESTS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); POWER PLANTS (72%); LAWYERS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (69%); ARMED FORCES (67%); MILITARY TRAINING (67%); RELIGION (65%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); JOURNALISM (61%); 

PERSON: NECMETTIN ERBAKAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



310 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Amendment Killed, Way Is Cleared for China Trade Bill

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13

 BODY:
With surprising and decisive ease, the Senate cleared the last major hurdle today to passing a trade bill with China and handing President Clinton one of his top remaining foreign policy goals.
Senators rejected a contentious amendment to impose sanctions on Chinese companies that export sophisticated weapons to hostile nations, setting the stage to vote in a few days on legislation to give China permanent normal trading privileges. 
 The amendment was defeated on a bipartisan vote, 65 to 32, after a furious last-minute lobbying campaign this week by pro-trade business leaders and several of Mr. Clinton's cabinet officers, who argued that the measure was redundant and could scuttle the bill.
The vote virtually assures that the Senate will join the House in ending the annual Congressional review of China's trade status, a ritual for 20 years that Beijing considers humiliating but that opponents argue is a lever for improving human rights. More than 70 senators are generally expected to vote for the overall bill.
"This is the big enchilada," said Senator Max Baucus of Montana, a pro-trade Democrat who led the fight against the amendment. "We've got it now."
Unlike the situation in the House, where the trade bill survived intense opposition from a coalition of labor and religious groups, final passage in the Senate was never been in doubt, only the course to get there.
Supporters of the legislation have pressed for a bill free of amendments because they say there is not enough time before Election Day to reconcile an amended Senate bill with the version that the House passed in May.
One after another, amendments to improve human rights, religious freedom and labor standards in China have fallen by lopsided votes this week, not because senators opposed them on merit but because of their potential harm to the underlying bill.
But the amendment sponsored by Fred Thompson, Republican of Tennessee, and Robert G. Torricelli, Democrat of New Jersey, to penalize Chinese companies that traffic in nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, as well as long-range missiles, struck a strong chord with lawmakers who are increasingly alarmed by intelligence reports of Chinese arms exports.
Under the amendment, the president would have been required to conduct an annual review of China's proliferation activities. If Chinese companies trafficked in the prohibited weapons, Mr. Clinton could have cut off sensitive technology exports and United States government loans or credits. The president could have waived the sanctions if it was in the national security interest of the United States.
"Senator Thompson is asking us to put national security ahead of greed," said Senator Robert C. Byrd, a West Virginia Democrat who supported the amendment. "What's wrong with that?"
Senator Mike DeWine, Republican of Ohio, added: "This amendment is not just about holding other nations accountable as proliferators. It is also about holding our President accountable as the world's principle proliferation enforcer."
But other senators, including Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, voiced support for the overall bill and its trade benefits and objected to any amendments that could imperil them.
Mr. Thompson mocked Mr. Gramm for naively believing that trade could help reverse Beijing's penchant for selling missiles and missile technology to countries like North Korea and Pakistan.
"His response is trade with them, and one day we will magically wake up and they will be dismantling their armaments," said Mr. Thompson, who has clashed with Mr. Gramm in recent months over a bill to govern export controls. "When that happens, I will present the tooth fairy on the floor of this body."
Even after Mr. Thompson had watered down his amendment to address administration complaints that it focused too narrowly on China and that its sanctions would hurt American farmers, the Clinton administration strongly objected.
This week, several cabinet members, including Defense Secretary William S. Cohen and the national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, telephoned senators who were wavering on the amendment, warning that it overlapped existing law and hindered the president's ability to compel China to curb proliferation.
In the end, 35 Democrats and 30 Republicans voted against Mr. Thompson's measure, while 23 Republicans and 9 Democrats voted for it. Several Republicans, who favored the amendment as a separate bill, including Thad Cochran of Mississippi, Connie Mack of Florida and Don Nickles of Oklahoma, voted against it as an amendment.
"This is it, it's settled, it's all over but for the shouting," said Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a New York Democrat who has championed the trade bill.
After the vote, Mr. Thompson's aides said he had not ruled out bringing up the measure again before the Senate adjourns.
The United States and China reached agreement last fall on a deal to help pave China's eventual entry into the World Trade Organization, the 135-member trade group that sets the rules for global commerce. China will enter the W.T.O. no matter how the Senate votes. But without Congress's blessing, Beijing could withhold some of the trade benefits, including lower tariffs, from the American farmers and companies that it will extend to other members of the trade group.
Business leaders hailed the surprisingly wide margin of the vote and predicted speedy passage of the overall bill, perhaps as early as Thursday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN OF TENNESSEE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN OF TENNESSEE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); RELIGION (73%); LOBBYING (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (61%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); FINES & PENALTIES (57%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); FRED THOMPSON (58%); GLENN THOMPSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



311 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Concerns About Earnings Push Blue-Chip Issues Lower

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Continued nervousness about third-quarter earnings left stocks mixed yesterday despite the announcement of a merger between two of the country's largest banks.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 51.05 points, or 0.5 percent, to 11,182.18. 
 Broader indicators moved higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index edged up 2.92 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,484.91, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 44.38 points, or 1.2 percent, to 3,893.89.
Although most third-quarter earnings reports will not come out until next month, concerns that the numbers will be disappointing have sent stocks into divergent directions this month. The market has fallen into a pattern of rewarding companies that deliver strong profits and outlooks, and punishing those that do not.
SCI Systems was off $9.94, to $46, a decline of nearly 18 percent, after the electronics manufacturer said its quarterly results would fall below expectations because of seasonal weakness in demand for its products.
Shares of Sherwin Williams dropped $1.63, to $22.25, after the company, a paint maker, said quarterly earnings would not meet Wall Street expectations because of higher raw material costs and tough competition.
Intel fell $3.69, to $61.25, after a Banc of America Securities analyst cut his rating to "market perform" from "strong buy." Last week, a U. S. Bancorp Piper Jaffries analyst cut the rating to "buy" from "strong buy."
"We're still half a month away from actual earnings season, but we've already had key reports from companies like DuPont saying it will be down. The market has not taken that news well," said Ricky Harrington, a senior vice president at Wachovia Securities in Charlotte, N.C. "It's somewhat subjective, but I think the run-up of stocks that we saw before Labor Day has set the stage for downside surprises."
DuPont fell sharply last week after the company said its earnings would be below expectations because of rising costs and soft markets for its chemical products.
Before the market opened, Chase Manhattan announced it was acquiring J. P. Morgan for about $30.9 billion in stock. Shares of J. P. Morgan fell $4.19, to $181.25, after weeks of its stock price's inching upward on rumors that it was an acquisition target. Chase fell $1.31, to $51.19.
The deal is the third in the financial services industry in September.
Last week, Citigroup announced it was buying Associates First Capital for $31.1 billion in stock, and, on Tuesday, Goldman Sachs said it would buy the market maker Spear, Leeds & Kellogg for $6.5 billion in stock and cash.
Shares of the Knight Trading Group, a leading market maker, were up $6.63, at $36.06, or nearly 23 percent, on speculation that it might be next.
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Higher
By Bloomberg News
Treasury bond prices rose for the first time in three days on expectations retail sales and price reports this week would offer further signs the economy is not growing at a pace that fans inflation.
"The economy looks like it is slowing and inflation is not a problem," said Arthur Micheletti of Bailard, Biehl & Kaiser in San Mateo, Calif. Sales and producer price reports today will bolster that sentiment, he said. "Treasuries and corporate bonds should do well."
The 10-year Treasury note rose 10/32, to a price of 100 6/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.72 percent from 5.77 percent on Tuesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 8/32, to 107 11/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.73 percent from 5.75 percent on Tuesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: USB (NYSE) (66%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); SHW (NYSE) (55%); KCG (PAR) (50%); KCG (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (55%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (51%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: U S BANCORP (66%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); SHERWIN-WILLIAMS CO (55%); ASSOCIATES FIRST CAPITAL CORP (51%); SPEAR LEEDS & KELLOGG (50%); KNIGHT CAPITAL GROUP INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MERGERS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); ELECTRONICS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (68%); PAINTS & COATINGS MFG (68%); US LABOR DAY (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



312 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Rome Journal;
English Without Tears, Thanks to TV

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: ROME

 BODY:
Jason Priestley, the slouching star of "Beverly Hills 90210," is not best known for his mastery of proper English diction. But in Italy his high school angst has been put to use to help Italians learn English. Computer users can freeze a frame on a CD-ROM version of the show and pause his mumbled delivery. If that doesn't help, students can click to a more precise, mid-Atlantic voice-over.
Installments of "MovieTalk," CD-ROM's that convert popular American television shows into interactive English lessons, are being given away free by the newsmagazine L'Espresso. The marketing strategy is intended to sell magazines by tapping into Italians' thirst to improve their English. 
 English has become the lingua franca of the world, but among European countries Italy has one of the lowest rates of proficiency. Only 28 percent of Italians speak any English, according to a 1999 study by the European Commission, compared with 78 percent of the Dutch, 77 percent of Swedes and 41 percent of Germans. Even the prickly French have a higher percentage of English-speakers -- 30 percent.
Italians' longstanding insistence on having foreign movies and television shows dubbed into Italian is an important reason, Furio Colombo, a columnist, wrote in the daily newspaper La Repubblica. He believes that the dubbing has lulled Italians into a false sense of security. "Unconsciously, Italians have this idea that Italian is so universal a language that even Woody Allen speaks it fluently," Mr. Colombo said.
In the last few years, however, Italians have scrambled to catch up, prompted by the Internet and a desire to compete in the global economy. Italy has more than 1,000 language schools, and many newspapers and magazines provide written English lessons and, increasingly, interactive lessons online.
MovieTalk, a system designed by the American software company, Softrade International, has already been marketed in Germany and Japan using episodes of "Beverly Hills 90210," "Columbo," "Murder, She Wrote," and "Star Trek." Its debut here, however, is the latest Italian effort to gain proficiency without too much effort -- the linguistic equivalent of the electronic cellulite-jiggling devices that are demonstrated on quivering models on Italian cable television 24 hours a day.
"If everybody who bought English-lesson tapes, CD-ROM's and books followed through all the way, we would by now be a bilingual nation," Marco Barina, marketing director of L'Espresso, said as he was preparing for the distribution of 700,000 cassettes of "Columbo," the detective series starring Peter Falk. "This at least allows people to be entertained while they learn."
Many Italians are beginning to express embarrassment over their poor grasp of English, particularly as Internet use spreads and English terms like "killer," "top model," "downsizing" and "welfare" seep into Italian newspapers and conversation.
When the Democrats of the Left, the largest party in the governing center-left coalition, held their last convention, in January, they adopted the English words "I Care" as their slogan.
Other Europeans improve their English by watching Hollywood movies with the original soundtrack, accompanied by subtitles. Most Italian movie theaters, however, show American films dubbed into Italian.
Several companies in Italy now sell videocasettes of popular Hollywood movies like "You've Got Mail" and "There's Something About Mary," with the original English-language soundtrack and also English-language subtitles, to help viewers follow the dialogue. Speak Up, a monthly magazine intended for Italian students of English, also sells videocasettes, along with transcripts from the film.
The personal ads in Speak Up suggest that at least some readers cannot entirely accept Hollywood comedies as a serious language study guide, however. "Desperately seeking videocasette of 'Sense and Sensibility' or other rigorously British films," a reader called Lina wrote recently.
And some language instruction on the Internet includes a stern moral lesson. Stephen Murrell, an Englishman who runs the English Conversation Club, a language school in Genoa, supplies English courses to Donna Moderna magazine, Italy's highest circulation women's magazine, as well as the Donna Moderna Web site. Mr. Murrell, who also teaches English to Italians on cruise ships, composes his own texts to enhance vocabulary and reading comprehension, asking users to select the correct word from a list of five.
One installment, "Among the Slaves of the South in the States," luridly recounts plantation life during the American Civil War.
One segment: "A one-legged slave (grow, whip, surrender, hobbled, bent) by. 'Good morning, Master.' "
" 'We had to cut off his leg to stop him escaping when he was younger,' smiled the plantation owner."
The text, which describes "Negroes" cheerfully picking cotton, might startle American readers, but Mr. Murrell, who noted that the editors had actually persuaded him to tone down his original language, said Italians needed to learn the painful parts of American -- and English -- history.
"It's no good expecting students to read boring texts," he said. "They have to read something they would read in their own language. We also do a lot of stuff on the English royal family. Italians love it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Beverly Hills 90210," starring Jason Priestley, is being used to teach Italians how to speak English. (Softrade International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BEVERLY HILLS 90210 (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

COMPANY: L'ESPRESSO (MAGAZINE) THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (74%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: L'ESPRESSO (MAGAZINE) EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY; ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE; TELEVISION LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (77%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); LINGUISTICS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); MARKETING STRATEGY (69%); COMPANY STRATEGY (69%); WRITERS (69%); 

PERSON: STANLEY, ALESSANDRA WOODY ALLEN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



313 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Bill Covering Carbon Dioxide Seeks to Reduce Other Pollution

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
New York City Council leaders proposed a law yesterday that would give New York the nation's first air-emission standard for the release of carbon dioxide. But they were the first to admit that carbon dioxide was not their real target.
The bill, proposed by the Council speaker, Peter F. Vallone, is aimed at forcing the city's older electricity generating plants to reduce overall pollution levels. 
 "This is a back-door way of doing that," Mr. Vallone said.
The carbon dioxide bill, which was written with the aid of the Natural Resources Defense Council, a private conservation group, is unusual on a number of fronts, environmental experts say. First, it would regulate an emission that is not generally considered a health threat; more dangerous pollutants like sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide are already monitored by state and federal authorities.
Second, the bill would use a regulatory apparatus to do something other than its stated purpose. By reducing carbon dioxide from power plants, the bill's supporters say, other, more toxic emissions will be reduced as well, almost as a kind of biproduct.
The backdrop of the proposal is a vast wave of electric power plants proposed for construction in the city over the next five years.
Many electricity experts, including the chairwoman of the State Public Service Commission, Maureen O. Helmer, have said that the open market for electricity will push out the city's older power plants, which won't be able to compete economically with the newer, cleaner burning plants.
Mr. Vallone, who is expected to run for mayor and has become an increasingly vocal critic of what he calls the failures of a deregulated energy market, said a carbon dioxide law would essentially give those older plants an additional push. Fines would be imposed on plants that exceeded a yet-uncalculated carbon dioxide cap, and the fines, according to the bill, would make the noncomplying plants uncompetitive, forcing them to clean up or close down.
A spokesman for KeySpan Energy, which owns the city's largest generating plant, Ravenswood, in Queens, said he feared that the bill might have a negative effect on air quality.
The spokesman, Bob Mahony, said that New York City plants, if pushed by a new law to burn cleaner, more expensive fuels like natural gas exclusively might find themselves in a competitive disadvantage with dirtier, coal-fired plants in the Midwest. The coal-burning plants would then produce and sell even more electricity in the region, but the cleaner plants would sit idle, resulting in more pollution, not less.
An economist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, Ashok Gupta, who helped write the carbon dioxide proposal, disagreed, saying that because of technical limits on power transmission, the region is probably already importing about as much Midwest energy as it can. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (84%); NG (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL NATIONAL GRID PLC (84%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (83%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (83%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CARBON DIOXIDE ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); NITROGEN OXIDES (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); MAYORS (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (77%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (76%); ENERGY REGULATION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (76%); NATURAL GAS (72%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (71%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (70%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (56%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK; VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER) PETER F VALLONE (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



314 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: A New Bloc of Little-Guy Votes

BYLINE: By Tom Reed; Tom Reed owns Lake Motors, an auto dealership in Eagle Lake, Tex.

DATELINE: EAGLE LAKE, Tex.

 BODY:
When doctors, insurance agents and auto dealers form unions, organize boycotts and otherwise band together against larger corporate forces, economic changes are at work that can also alter the political landscape. Why are these groups of traditional Republican voters behaving like working-class Democrats of old? Because they face a greater threat to their livelihood than big government ever posed. And it could change their votes.
The threat is from the large corporations with which these small businesses deal as franchisees, sales representatives and providers of health care. And it is a fight for their very survival. Not content with record profits derived from Wall Street, the sales floor and underwriting over the decade of the 90's, big business wants even more. It wants all the business now, even if that means competing against and destroying the very partners that made the big boys big in the first place. 
 My own industry is one example. The Big Three automakers are working actively in all 50 states to change dealer franchise laws that prohibit them from retailing directly to the public through the Internet and factory-owned stores. If the automakers' strategy is successful, they could eliminate or marginalize 20,000 dealerships, dramatically altering the lives of the one million people they employ and the welfare of thousands of communities. Bankruptcies and the selling off of capital built up by families over decades would precede the fundamentally new arrangement in the retail marketplace.
In the travel industry, big companies' embrace of the Internet is already causing massive shakeouts. Travel agents are being squeezed as the public books directly with the airlines, hotels and Internet businesses. Airlines have cut the commissions of travel agents in half in a clear effort to eliminate their former business partners.
A third industry following the trend is insurance. Big companies have pressed doctors, hospitals and consumers to the limit with scant reimbursements, poor service, rules that dictate which doctors can be used, and unjustified premium increases. More than one-third of hospitals nationwide are not profitable. Group health premiums rose by 12 percent, on average, this last year. My own small business's premiums went up 22 percent, and though the ostensible reason was spiraling health costs, my insurance company's net profits increased 53 percent.
There is also a squeeze on independent insurance agencies. Although 90 percent of all small businesses and homeowners choose to write their health, life, property and casualty insurance through independent agents, big insurers have cut their commissions to these agents in half. If the strategy is to eliminate the independents, it is working: since 1987, the ranks of these agencies have been reduced by 37 percent.
In an economy putting this kind of pressure on independent small-business people, the old political paradigms -- capital versus labor, free enterprise versus big government -- are less relevant than a new one: big capital versus small capital. Consumers tempted to think the consolidation of power in the hands of big companies may streamline costs and lower prices should ask themselves how well airline deregulation worked in practice.
Corporations' seeking to maximize profits is nothing new. What is new is the degree to which big business is cannibalizing its own small partners and displacing arrangements in retailing, health care and insurance that give customers someone in their community to connect with directly.
This new fault line in the American economy has the capacity to put traditional political allegiances up for grabs. Small-business owners are looking for political help when franchise laws are attacked and commission payments are gutted. Doctors, patients and independent insurance agents are looking for help when the insurance companies are calling the shots.
In this new, fundamentally different fight between competing capitalists, it would be difficult for the Republican ticket to champion the small-business banner, given George W. Bush's and Dick Cheney's personal and political ties to corporate America. The Democrats, therefore, have the opening they need to lay claim once again to being champion of the little guy.
Al Gore's populist rhetoric and Joseph Lieberman's service on the Senate Small Business Committee may help them articulate just what is at stake in this new cleavage in American politics (although Mr. Lieberman's longtime links to Connecticut's big insurance companies could pose a problem). But can they ally the Democratic Party in two months with the 13 million small-business voters who have been hammered for two decades with the message that Democrats are their enemies?
Once the Democratic Party was the undeniable defender of the little guy, the worker, in the face of corporate oppression. Then the Republicans usurped that role, among small-business owners at least, by defending small business against the excesses of big government. Now, if the Democrats can convince small business that their party stands with them in their biggest battle, they have a real opportunity to win this presidential election and regain a majority in Congress as well.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stephen Savage)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TRAVEL AGENTS INTERNATIONAL (54%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SMALL BUSINESS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); FRANCHISING (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); HOSPITALS (78%); SALES FORCE (78%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); FRANCHISEES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); SALES & SELLING (75%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); COMMISSION PAY (73%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); FRANCHISING LAW (70%); TRAVEL AGENTS (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CHENEY, DICK; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); REED, TOM AL GORE (57%); DICK CHENEY (57%); TOM REED (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



315 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

U.S. Delays Punitive Duties On European Luxury Goods
President Clinton has delayed punitive duties on European luxury goods, including Scottish cashmere, British shortbread and Italian pecorino cheese, because Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain has shown "unprecedented" support for the American position on two trade disputes, administration officials said. 
 The reprieve gives United States trade negotiators some leverage to avoid a head-on collision with Europe in a potentially far more costly trade dispute over tax breaks Washington gives American exporters. Page A1.
 
The Senate cleared the last major hurdle to passing a trade bill with China, and handing President Clinton one of his top remaining foreign policy goals. A8.
 
Inktomi to Buy Software Developer
Inktomi, which specializes in Internet infrastructure, said that it had agreed to acquire FastForward Networks in a stock swap valued at about $1.3 billion. FastForward, based in San Francisco, has developed software technology for the distribution and management of live broadcasting over the Internet. Shares of Inktomi, which is based in Forest City, Calif., fell $2.25, to $108.75. C6.
 
Stocks Mixed on Earnings Anxiety
Continued nervousness about earnings left stocks mixed. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 51.05 points, or 0.5 percent, to 11,182.18. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index edged up 2.92 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,484.91, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 44.38 points, or 1.2 percent, to 3,893.89. C12.
 
Suits Filed Against the Drug Ritalin
Lawyers involved in class-action lawsuits against the tobacco industry, gun makers and health maintenance organizations filed two suits against the widely used drug Ritalin. The suits contend that Novartis Pharmaceuticals, the drug's maker, and the American Psychiatric Association conspired to create a market for Ritalin and expand its use. A20.
 
Janus Fund Closed to New Investors
Janus Capital closed its flagship Janus Fund to new investors. The company has now closed half of its 16 equity funds. C7.
 
Breaking Through the Ad Gridlock
For the 2001 model year, which formally begins Oct. 1, automakers will eagerly try to gain attention in an American market more cluttered than ever. Agencies are scrambling to find compelling ways to sell vehicles, like the new Lexus LS 430. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C9.
 
Bank Reform Struggles in Malaysia
Efforts by Malaysia to strengthen its banking system by forcing its 54 financial institutions to merge into just 10 appear to be backfiring, as concerns about government interference revive doubt about the industry's health and the risks of investing in the country. C4.
 
Current Account Deficit Hits Record
The United States current account deficit, the broadest measure of foreign trade, widened 4.6 percent, to $106.14 billion, in the second quarter, surpassing the earlier record of $101.51 billion set in the previous quarter. C2.
 
A Decline in Work-Related Injuries Since 1992, the number of work-related injuries and illnesses has fallen 25 percent, translating into at least a $125 billion annual lift for the economy. The decline in injuries reverses a historical pattern: injuries usually rise when unemployment falls because work intensity increases and many inexperienced workers are hired. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,103.01 down 112.09
Nasdaq composite -- 4,103.81 up 21.64
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.73% down 0.01
The euro -- $0.8924 down 0.0001
The dollar -- 106.47 yen up 0.44
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Producer Prices
August figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.
Expected: +0.1%
 
Retail Sales
August figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time
Expected: +0.4%
 
Graph tracks the daily closing price of Inktomi shares through the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SCOTLAND (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SCOTLAND (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (72%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (69%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (69%); LITIGATION (69%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (64%); CLASS ACTIONS (64%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); TOBACCO MFG (64%); LAWYERS (63%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); TONY BLAIR (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



316 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: City Called Too Aggressive On Health Care Repayment

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
The Giuliani administration's pursuit of reimbursements from city residents whose spouses benefited from government-paid nursing home care drew charges of cruelty and insensitivity yesterday from city officials, a former top federal health care regulator and some of the people who have been the subject of recent collection efforts.
State law requires the state and city governments to pay for long-term institutional care for people who need it, even if they or their spouses have assets that they refuse to turn over to the government. But the same law allows the city to recover some or all of that cost if the married couple's assets exceed $84,120 or they have a monthly income of more than $2,103. 
 Public Advocate Mark Green and City Councilman Stephen DiBrienza, chairman of the general welfare committee, said yesterday that the city was justified in pursuing refunds from the rich. But in recent years, they said, the city has been far too zealous in seeking payments from middle-class and lower-income residents, threatening to push them into poverty.
"Be smart, have a heart, stop this cruel and unusual policy of threatening to sue and seize the lifetime earnings of widows at their moment of grief," Mr. Green said at a news conference yesterday on the City Hall steps.
Ruth Reinecke, a spokeswoman for the city's Human Resources Administration, rejected the criticism, saying that the agency was "sensitive to hardship issues resulting from these payments and in the majority of cases" did not force payments even if a couple's assets exceeded the limits.
But Mr. Green and Mr. DiBrienza pointed to cases like that of Ada Bloom, 73, of Queens, who received a $144,000 bill from the city in March 1999, several weeks after her 78-year-old husband died, following three years of government-paid nursing home care.
"It is a nightmare, a physical and mental nightmare for me," Ms. Bloom said yesterday, fighting back tears. She said she had about $300,000 in assets, money she wanted to keep to cover her own personal and medical bills. "I am desperate to have somebody do something about the cruelty of this condition," she said.
City documents show that Human Resources has at times sought payments from people with less savings. In July, for example, the city moved to collect $15,836 from a 79-year-old woman from the Woodlawn section of the Bronx who had $94,856 in assets to help cover part of the $187,610 in nursing home bills her 80-year-old husband incurred over three years.
"The city is much more aggressive than other counties in seeking reimbursements," said Bernard A. Krooks, a lawyer who represents about 50 elderly clients who have faced collection efforts, including the Bronx woman. He is also chairman of the New York State Bar Association's committee on elder law.
"These are people who paid their bills, who already tried to do the right thing and yet are being crucified, treated like criminals merely because their spouse got the wrong illness that required long-term care in a nursing home."
Bruce C. Vladeck, administrator of the federal Health Care Financing Administration from 1993 to 1997, said that while the city had the option of collecting payments from middle-income residents, it was not required to do so.
"It makes no sense on policy grounds, on economic grounds and certainly not on humane grounds," said Mr. Vladeck, who joined Mr. Green, Mr. DiBrienza and Mr. Krooks at the news conference yesterday.
Human Resources officials said they provided nursing home care to more than 40,000 New Yorkers, at an annual cost of more than $2.6 billion. Of the approximately 1,200 people who apply for assistance each year, about 200 to 300 have incomes or assets exceeding the limits. It is in those cases that the city seeks repayment.
City officials yesterday disputed suggestions that they had intensified their collection efforts, saying that the policy had been in place since 1992, dating back to the Dinkins administration.
They also rejected suggestions that they had been overly aggressive in pursuing payments, noting that of the 196 collection efforts in the last fiscal year, 53 concluded in payments.
In those 53, the city generally accepted a contribution of 25 percent of the couples' income above the $2,103 monthly limit. The city noted as well that in the 60 cases in litigation this year, the total assets of the couples averaged $533,000.
One case highlighted yesterday by critics of the administration, in fact, seemed to show the city's flexibility in its demands. Cindy Belfiore Grossman, 42, an assistant administrator at St. John's University, whose 52-year-old husband is disabled and receives part-time care at their Upper West Side home, had been asked by the city to pay $1,177 a month, more than half her take-home pay, toward the cost of his care. But after negotiations, she said, the co-payment was cut to $65 a month.
Mr. Green sent Jason A. Turner, the human resources commissioner, a letter yesterday asking him to establish a more flexible reimbursement policy. Mr. DiBrienza also said the City Council planned to hold a hearing on the matter next month. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION (NYC) MEDICAID (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION (NYC) MEDICAID (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NURSING HOMES; MEDICAID CITIES (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); NURSING HOMES (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (89%); MARRIAGE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); MEDICAID (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); MAYORS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); LAWYERS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%); 

PERSON: LIPTON, ERIC; GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); DIBRIENZA, STEPHEN (COUNCILMAN); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) MARK GREEN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



317 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: A Changing City, A Changing Mindset;
Met Exhibit Chronicles New York's Rise

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
Even 141 years ago, New York City was the most conceited city in the hemisphere.
Consider the landmark 1859 map that depicts a fish-eye view of New York Harbor as nothing less than the entire globe of the earth. This lithograph of Gotham as the hub of the world is a startling forerunner of that iconic, much-copied New Yorker cover by Saul Steinberg in 1976, an illustration that portrayed the city as the self-absorbed epicenter of all that matters. 
 The 19th-century lithograph, by John Bachmann, an artist and publisher, is presented in "Art and the Empire City: New York, 1825-1861," an exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art that opens on Tuesday. It highlights the era when New York grew exponentially from a promising provincial port city to the largest metropolis in the Western Hemisphere, the locus of American trade, culture and the arts.
Or, as John K. Howat, chairman of the departments of American art at the museum, puts it, when "New York City became the center of all things." The exhibition features 301 paintings, sculptures, lithographs, photographs and decorative objects from 84 lenders in the United States and Europe.
If by its very title the presentation seems an exercise in New York chauvinism, the show "is, unrepentantly, a New York event," said Philippe de Montebello, the Met's director, "because it was during that four-decade period that New York became acknowledged as the great city in America and a great capital of the world."
Moreover, said Catherine Hoover Voorsanger, an associate curator at the Met and the project director of the show, putting together the exhibition, the first comprehensive investigation of the era, was "a detective story on a massive scale, trying to discover how New York became the city we know today."
The curators attempted to solve the mystery by conducting five years of research into the spirit of the time, including page-by-page surveys of thousands of magazines ranging from The New York Mirror to Godey's Lady's Book. Then curators traveled the country to track down long-lost trophies so they could be returned to Manhattan.
The works they assembled illuminate the economic, cultural and artistic ferment that drove New York to prominence, starting in 1825, the year the city celebrated the completion of the Erie Canal. The show ends with the firing on Fort Sumter that ushered in the Civil War, when New York was poised to become a world city on a par with London and Paris.
"This is a period that all historians, not just art historians, have ignored," said Dr. Dell Upton, professor of architectural history at the University of California at Berkeley. He walked every block from the Battery to 21st Street while researching his lead essay in the exhibition catalog.
Some of the works have been rescued from obscurity, like the imposing 8-foot-by-5-foot, full-length portrait of the Marquis de Lafayette, dating from 1825-1826. He posed during his triumphant return to America to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence. One of the most famous portraits of its day, it was painted by Samuel F. B. Morse (yes, the inventor of the telegraph).
For ages it hung to the right of the speaker's rostrum in the higher reaches of the City Council chamber, less visible to art lovers than to the protesters who periodically rained abuse on Council members from the balcony.
Other objects in the show have newly come to light, like a long-lost rosewood sofa and two armchairs, made in Manhattan by the Prussian-born cabinetmaker Julius Dessoir. The suite of furniture was so celebrated in 1853 that it was exhibited in Manhattan at the first American world's fair.
"These are masterpieces of American furniture-making of the period, as good as it gets in Europe or America," said Ms. Voorsanger, who ran them to ground in a collector's home in West Orange, N.J.
Two other important finds, original 1857 presentation boards for Central Park, were unearthed in the city's Municipal Archives. Created by Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux, the park's designers, they feature photographs by Mathew Brady and oil paintings by Mr. Vaux. They were used in 19th-century pitch-sessions "to sell people on the idea of creating a park that could be the lungs of the city," Mr. Howat said.
The curators were also successful in landing some rarely exhibited treasures, like a pale-pink seed-pearl necklace and a pair of bracelets from the Library of Congress. President Abraham Lincoln bought them from Tiffany's for $530 for his wife, Mary Todd Lincoln, who wore them to the inaugural ball in 1861.
The exhibition is the Met's largest in its American Wing since its "19th Century America" show in 1970. Strangely, this exercise in New York egoism is being sponsored, to the tune of $2 million, by Fleet bank, the largest bank in Boston, "because we're the leading real-estate lender in New York, and we want to associate ourselves with things that say New York," said Rena DeSisto, a spokeswoman for the bank.
The exhibition highlights not only the work of New York artists but also illustrates the high level of craftsmanship attained by Gotham's immigrants from France, Germany, Ireland, Italy and other countries. For example, on exhibit is a 10-foot-high mahogany door and pedimented frame from the Clarkson Lawn, a grand Greek Revival house built in Brooklyn in 1835 by immigrant craftsmen, demonstrating the grandeur of the Greek Revival style in New York. The house was demolished in 1940.
The term "Empire City" has been traced by some historians to George Washington. As the 19th century progressed, the city also became known as "The Great Emporium," commercially growing in stature with the explosion of European trade and the completion of the Erie Canal, which connected New York to the Great Lakes and the Western Territories via the Hudson River.
And thanks to the English, who dumped a huge inventory of textiles in the city, New York became "the nation's center of textile distribution for the rest of the century," Dr. Upton said.
Beyond the social forces of economic, political and population growth, Dr. Upton said, there were important individuals who fostered the explosion, especially Samuel Morse, who in founding the artist-run National Academy of Design in 1826 gave American artists recognition as independent creators rather than patrons' servants.
New York was not only the creative center of art, but also "the marketplace to buy and sell paintings, cabinets and other art forms," Ms. Voorsanger said.
And so, the exhibition offers an abundance of portraits, landscapes, genre and history pictures, including some rarely loaned works by painters in what came to be known as the Hudson River School, like one gallery centerpiece, "Kindred Spirits," the 4-foot-by-3-foot landscape by Asher B. Durand from 1849. It normally resides in the New York Public Library, in the gallery opposite the third-floor reading rooms. "We begged to get this one, and we're grateful to have gotten it," Mr. Howat said.
As for the Bachmann lithograph of New York City as a globe, it is but one of a chronological array of images and maps in the exhibition "that show the progression from the local to the global," Ms. Voorsanger said. Conventional maps and street-level views yield to bird's-eye views from towers like the steeple of St. Paul's Church on Broadway in 1848.
By 1855, there was a panorama of the city from the 350-foot wooden tower of the Latting Observatory on West 43rd Street. Ultimately, there are views from balloons, and then the astronaut's-eye lithograph by Mr. Bachmann in 1859.
"It is an image that says, if you live in New York you can command the entire world," Dr. Upton said.
The exhibition's final gallery offers a piece de resistance, the 12-foot-by-6-foot "Heart of the Andes," painted by Frederic E. Church in 1859. It has significance for the Met beyond the fact that the artist, who became a founding trustee, donated the painting to the museum.
Originally, the dramatic, idealized landscape of exotic Ecuadorean mountains created a sensation, drawing 12,000 people in three weeks to the artist's studio in Greenwich Village. It toured Europe for two years to the acclaim of armchair travelers, and upon its return was exhibited in Manhattan to raise money for medical supplies for Union troops.
Out of that exhibition "began discussions saying that we ought to have an art building in New York," Mr. Howat said. "And," he added, "that led to the creation, six years, later, in 1870, of the Metropolitan Museum."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pascale Patris, an assistant conservator at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, working on a frame for a portrait of the Marquis de Lafayette for the exhibit "Art and the Empire City."; Among the items in the Met exhibit are a rosewood sofa made by Julius Dessoir, a lithograph of Manhattan by John Bachmann, and a Tiffany bracelet that Mary Todd Lincoln wore to the inaugural ball in 1861. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (58%); FRANCE (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (58%); FRANCE (50%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

SUBJECT: ART EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); HISTORY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); PAINTING (75%); SCULPTURE (75%); ART HISTORY (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



318 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: Gauge of Trade Gap Widens

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13

 BODY:
The United States current account deficit, the broadest measure of foreign trade, widened to a record in the second quarter as imports outpaced exports, the government said today.
The Commerce Department said the deficit rose 4.6 percent, to $106.14 billion, in the second quarter, surpassing the earlier record of $101.51 billion set in the previous quarter. 
 The widening was driven primarily by an rise in the deficit for goods, which also hit a record of $110.22 billion, compared with $105.84 billion in the first three months of the year.
While the deficit hit records, it was still not as large as the $131.3 billion gap forecast by economists. But that is unlikely to offer much solace to the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, who has often said he views the trend as unsustainable.
The current account measures not only goods and services with other nations but also investment flows and government grants.
The robust economy has been taking in imported goods at a much faster pace than reviving economies in Asia and elsewhere have been buying products made in America, leading to fears that the United States may begin to import inflation.
To date, those concerns have not been realized even as the deficit swelled to $106.14 billion compared with a gap of $78.98 billion in last year's second quarter.
Earlier today, the Labor Department said import prices in August rose a modest 0.2 percent.
The Commerce Department said imports of goods and services rose $13.30 billion, to $354.39 billion, in the second quarter. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS IMPORT TRADE (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (74%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



319 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Architects Submit Four Proposals for New Headquarters for The Times

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
Plans by The New York Times to build a new headquarters on Eighth Avenue took intriguing form this week with the submission of competing proposals by some of the world's most renowned architects.
Prismatic, polymorphous, scintillating and starkly angular, they defy the conventional idea of a boxy or stepped New York skyscraper. 
 Though Times executives were quick to say that the architects' visions would bear little or no relation to the final design of the building, if such a building is even constructed, the models offer a tantalizing glimpse of the company's ambitious aspirations for the site, between 40th and 41st Streets.
Three of the four entrants have won the Pritzker Architecture Prize, widely considered the platinum bar of the profession. They are Renzo Piano, Norman Foster and Frank O. Gehry, who is allied in his submission with Skidmore, Owings & Merrill. The other entrant, Cesar Pelli, has been a Pritzker juror.
Michael Golden, the vice chairman and senior vice president of The New York Times Company, said yesterday that he hoped the final choice could be made next week.
"We said we wanted this to be a difficult decision, and boy, is it," he said after the four presentations concluded.
"We want a building that is an icon," Mr. Golden said, "that speaks to our heritage and also speaks to our future." New York City, he said, is already rich in architecture. "We want to make it richer."
The Times Company and its development partner, Forest City Ratner Companies, are planning a tower about 650 feet high, with 1.3 million square feet of space, across Eighth Avenue from the Port Authority Bus Terminal. The Times would occupy a little more than half the building, including the larger floors at its base. The rest would be leased to commercial and retail tenants.
Although the 200-by-400-foot site is part of the Times Square redevelopment area, it is still in the hands of 11 different owners. The 42nd Street Development Project, a subsidiary of the Empire State Development Corporation, would acquire the properties through eminent domain and lease the land to the Times Company and Forest City Ratner.
Construction might begin late next year or early in 2002, Mr. Golden said, with occupancy of the new building about two years later. The Times would probably sell the building at 229 West 43rd Street that it has occupied since 1913, Mr. Golden said.
But he cautioned that the Times board had not yet decided to make the move and declined to estimate the cost of the project, saying it was too early to do so.
"I should warn you that what you see won't be what you get," Mr. Golden told Times employees in a memo about the architectural presentations. "The models represent the architects' design concepts at this point in time. The architect that is chosen will then embark upon a yearlong, detailed and complex process to design the building we will ultimately occupy."
That said, each concept is arresting.
A towering right triangle has been proposed by Foster & Partners of London. The high point would be on Eighth Avenue and the inclined facade on the east, with tree-filled terraces every seven stories. The sides would be criss-crossed with bold X bracing. The top of the building would be illuminated and could, the architect said, be assigned to an artist as a "cultural billboard."
Lord Foster's projects have included the Hong Kong and Shanghai Bank in Hong Kong and the reconstruction of the Reichstag in Berlin.
From Frank O. Gehry & Associates of Santa Monica, Calif., has come a proposal for a tower with an undulating facade, wrapped in twisting, sinewy planes that blossom at the top and bustle at the bottom; not unlike pappardelle pasta on a colossal scale. At the top of the building would appear an "N" and "Y" in the black-letter typeface from the newspaper's nameplate.
Mr. Gehry, who astonished the world with the sinuous, titanium-roofed Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain, has more recently designed a proposal for a new Guggenheim Museum on the Lower Manhattan waterfront.
He is associated with Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, whose current projects include Columbus Center, soon to rise on the site of the New York Coliseum; the new Pennsylvania Station; and the new New York Stock Exchange.
Cesar Pelli & Associates of New Haven is probably best known in New York as the architect of the World Financial Center at Battery Park City and the Carnegie Hall Tower. But its proposal for the Times building is nothing like those.
Rather than four square walls, Mr. Pelli calls for a series of suave, tapered, intersecting planes, each at a slightly different angle, topped by a slanting roof. There would be tree-filled atriums at either end of the building, which would rise out of a low base covering the entire site.
Mr. Piano has proposed an irregular, rectangular tower whose facade consists of layers of diaphanous glass screens that almost seem to float in the air around the building. There would be a five-story atrium in the base, opening from Eighth Avenue, and a roof garden.
In a caption accompanying his presentation, Mr. Piano said the Times building "should introduce new qualities: lightness, vibration, transparency and immateriality."
Mr. Piano attracted world attention in the 1970's with the startlingly exoskeletal Centre Pompidou in Paris, designed with Richard Rogers. Recent projects include the redevelopment of Potsdamer Platz in Berlin. The Renzo Piano Building Workshop is based in Paris and in Genoa, Italy.
On the design committee are Mr. Golden; Janet L. Robinson, president and general manager of The Times newspaper; Bruce C. Ratner, president and chief executive of Forest City Ratner; James P. Stuckey, executive vice president of Forest City Ratner; Wendy Leventer, president of the 42nd Street Development Project; and Stephen Hayes, a vice president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Four proposals for a new headquarters for The New York Times on Eighth Avenue between 40th and 41st Streets defy the conventional idea of a boxy skyscraper. From left, Renzo Piano proposes layers of diaphanous glass screens; Foster & Partners of London, a towering right triangle; Frank O. Gehry & Associates, a tower with an undulating facade; and Cesar Pelli & Associates, tapered intersecting planes. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (82%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (91%); RATNER COS (82%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (63%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS AND OTHER COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; ARCHITECTURE REAL ESTATE (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); EMINENT DOMAIN (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PROPERTY LEASES (67%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (67%); PORT AUTHORITIES (63%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W; PIANO, RENZO; FOSTER, NORMAN; GEHRY, FRANK O; PELLI, CESAR; GOLDEN, MICHAEL FRANK GEHRY (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



320 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: A Fierce Opening Debate

 BODY:
In a debate last night that put a fresh jolt of personal confrontation into the New York Senate race, Representative Rick Lazio and Hillary Rodham Clinton expressed sharp policy differences and engaged in some surprisingly tough talk about each other's trustworthiness. Both were composed and vigorous, but Mr. Lazio came across as a smoother, more aggressive performer. He attacked Mrs. Clinton's health care and education record while defending his charge in a fund-raising letter that the first lady had "embarrassed our country." But Mrs. Clinton did not fold. She countered that Mr. Lazio was waging a campaign of insults, and sought to lash him to the policies of Newt Gingrich.
Going into the debate, Mr. Lazio was rated by many analysts as having the most to gain. His biggest challenge was to come across as a figure of stature who could plausibly succeed the respected incumbent, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan. His best line came when he dismissed Mrs. Clinton's comparisons to Mr. Gingrich by turning to her and declaring: "Mrs. Clinton, you, of all people, shouldn't try to make guilt by association." It was an obvious reference to President Clinton's personal conduct. He also scored the evening's theatrical coup when he approached his opponent's lectern and dared her to sign a pledge to swear off soft money. But Mr. Lazio also ran the risk of seeming overbearing, or even rude, and he stumbled a bit when questioned about an independent campaign ad with a doctored picture of Mr. Lazio and Senator Moynihan. 
 For Mrs. Clinton the most awkward moment came when Tim Russert, the NBC moderator, showed a film clip of the first lady asserting that her husband's denial of an improper sexual relationship would eventually be proven correct. She was obviously uncomfortable in discussing a subject that, whether she likes it or not, has to be on the minds of voters in New York. Asked to apologize for misleading the country, her response was that "obviously I didn't mislead anyone -- I didn't know the truth." She notably distanced herself from her husband's mendacity by saying that he "did mislead the country as well as his family."
Although it was a moment when she did not display her usual self-confidence, Mrs. Clinton did show that she could handle tough questions and an aggressive rival without crumbling. Mr. Lazio, for his part, showed that he could perform smoothly in high-pressure situations.
Much of the debate, which took place in Buffalo, focused on the difficulties of the upstate economy. On this subject, Mrs. Clinton probably gave a more convincing answer when she declared that drastic solutions were needed. Mr. Lazio's assertion that upstate New York had turned the corner, and his suggestion that the first lady stop denigrating the region, may come back to haunt him among voters eager for solutions to the loss of jobs in that part of the state.
Otherwise, the general themes of the debate reflected much of what the two candidates have been saying on the campaign trail. The first lady repeated her claim to be in better tune with New Yorkers on school aid, health care, the environment and taxes. Mr. Lazio seldom missed a chance to categorize himself as a real New Yorker, and he seized the initiative in depicting himself as a champion of campaign finance reform.
It was, on balance, a debate that offered an unusual combination of substance and personal ferocity. Both performances seemed to promise even hotter exchanges ahead. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) NEW YORK SENATE (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) NEW YORK SENATE (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; DEBATING; EDITORIALS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (75%); 

PERSON: LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); TIM RUSSERT (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



321 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: BANKING'S BIG DEAL: THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE;
An Unassuming Player Who Prefers to Exert a Quiet Control

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
For one of the nation's top bank executives, William B. Harrison Jr. is surprisingly accustomed to the background.
At the University of North Carolina in the 1960's, he warmed the bench on a basketball team that included a future member of the Hall of Fame. At Chemical Bank, which he joined soon after graduation, he rose through the ranks in the shadow of Walter Shipley, his mentor. Even last year, when Mr. Harrison became the chief executive of Chase Manhattan, with which Chemical had earlier merged, many employees still had little sense of who he was. 
 Today, however, as the chief executive of the corporate behemoth that will result from the combination of Chase Manhattan and J. P. Morgan, Mr. Harrison finds himself squarely in the spotlight. The lanky North Carolina native may lack the forceful personality of other bank executives, like Sanford I. Weill at Citigroup or David H. Komansky at Merrill Lynch, but his task will be one of the most watched on Wall Street: to meld successfully two different companies into the world's third-largest financial institution.
J. P. Morgan, founded in 1861 by its namesake, is among the leading managers of money for blue-chip companies and wealthy individuals. Chase has a larger, middle-market business, with a commercial unit that includes more than 500 branches and a corporate division focused on smaller or higher-risk concerns. Mr. Harrison and his fellow executives hope the new company can combine J. P. Morgan's expertise at developing new products with Chase's large customer base to become one of the nation's top investment banks, which neither has been on its own.
Mr. Harrison may not be the most charismatic leader, friends and associates said, but few other executives have his experience in overseeing complicated mergers. Over the last decade, he has played a vital role in two important deals.
First, Chemical merged with Manufacturers Hanover, another New York bank, in 1991, the same year Mr. Harrison became vice chairman. Five years later, it bought Chase Manhattan and took the name of the older company in the process.
Along the way, Mr. Shipley and Mr. Harrison were careful not to pull a power play by ousting all the top executives at the banks they were acquiring. Instead, the two tried to identify the most talented managers and then sought to keep them, analysts said, and Mr. Harrison has also been comfortable dipping into competitors' executive ranks to fill key posts.
"When they've done mergers, they've done them in a very collegial way," said Ronald Mandle, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, who had predicted the Chase-Morgan merger.
James McCormick, the president of the First Manhattan Consulting Group, who has worked on and off with Mr. Harrison the last 15 years, said his experience handling bank mergers is "unparalleled," particularly as it relates to not upsetting the large corporate clients of either bank.
Associates say Mr. Harrison is a good listener who is also comfortable crunching numbers on his own or making an unpopular decision. "I don't think he's a consensus manager by any stretch of the imagination," said John F. McGillicuddy, the former head of Manufacturers Hanover who sits on Chase's international advisory board. "He listens to people and then makes his own decision."
In a recent interview with American Banker, Mr. Harrison said, "I'm not the type of person who goes home and agonizes over a decision I've made."
His banking roots run deep. He was born in 1943 in Rocky Mount, N.C., where his grandfather ran a bank at the middle of the century. As a teenager, Mr. Harrison worked at the bank in the summer. His father was a full-time employee and also served as the mayor of Rocky Mount.
In 1962, the younger Mr. Harrison moved 100 miles west to Chapel Hill to attend the University of North Carolina and play basketball there, as his father had in the 1930's. The son was far from a star, however. In his only year on the varsity, the 6-foot-4 forward played in just two games and took two shots, making one. (The star of the team was Billy Cunningham, now in the Hall of Fame.)
Even though Mr. Harrison quit after that season, he has said he learned a good deal about management from his coach, Dean Smith, who was then in the third year of a tenure that would last 35 more years.
Mr. Harrison joined Chemical soon after graduating with a degree in economics and has never left. He oversaw its European business in the early 1980's and then returned to New York to lead Chemical's corporate banking division.
Since becoming chief executive last year, Mr. Harrison has spent much of his time trying to change Chase's status as a technology laggard, with a struggling online banking business and little ability to underwrite initial public offerings. He took the bank's senior executives on a trip to the West Coast to meet William H. Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, and Scott McNealy, the head of Sun Microsystems. Mr. Harrison also led Chase's purchase of Hambrecht & Quist, a San Francisco boutique known for helping small technology companies go public.
Along the way, however, he has developed little of a public persona and, if yesterday's announcement of the deal was any indication, Mr. Harrison may be happy to let that continue. As is his custom, he deferred to other Chase executives on a variety of questions. He even allowed Douglas A. Warner III -- the head of J. P. Morgan, the company Mr. Harrison is taking over -- to speak first and, in an interview later, to interrupt him on more than once occasion.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: William B. Harrison Jr. of Chase likes to complete mergers the collegial way. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN BANK; MORGAN, J P, & CO; MORGAN, J P, CHASE & CO JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CHEMICAL BANK (58%); FIRST MANHATTAN CONSULTING GROUP (50%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN BANK; MORGAN, J P, & CO; MORGAN, J P, CHASE & CO UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION EXECUTIVES (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RANKINGS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); BASKETBALL (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); AFFLUENT MARKET (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); 

PERSON: HARRISON, WILLIAM B JR; LEONHARDT, DAVID SANDY WEILL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



322 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2969 words

HEADLINE: The Mahogany King's Brief Reign;
Business Interests Lurked Behind Fiji's Haphazard Coup

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: SUVA, Fiji

 BODY:
This South Pacific archipelago is best known for its fine-grained white beaches and cloudless vistas of cobalt sea. But a cockscomb range of steep-sided mountains divides the main island of Viti Levu, and nothing looks the same on the far side.
The rains come two days out of three in the southeast, dumping 10 feet a year. Suva's hills have a rain-forest coat of green -- bamboo, palm, cocoa, eucalyptus and, most temptingly and troubling for Fiji, more than a hundred thousand acres of high-grade mahogany, worth hundreds of millions of dollars. 
 A coup here a few months ago toppled the government. For a relatively bloodless political uprising in a small island nation of 830,000, the event attracted some attention. Many accounts told of how ethnic tension involving Fiji's natives, ethnic Melanesians, had once again exploded into a public confrontation with Indo-Fijians, who trace their roots to indentured laborers the British brought here from India a century ago, when both India and Fiji were crown colonies.
But behind the cries for ethnic solidarity and native Fijian supremacy was a struggle over land, money and mahogany, a competition that involved American and British as well as local business interests.
Like diamonds in Sierra Leone and oil in Nigeria, Fiji's mahogany helped prompt a struggle for political power, inflicting damage to the nation's economy and political system well in excess of the riches the commodity once promised.
Fiji's struggle began with two men, who each searched for a pot of gold and wound up stirring a cauldron of ethnic discontent.
Marshall W. Pettit, a Seattle-area real-estate developer drawn three years ago to Fiji by its forests rather than its resorts, said that he aspired to transform the way developing nations manage their forests -- and make a tidy profit. He also plunged into Fijian politics to fight the former government's opposition to his plans, though there is no evidence he backed the coup.
Mr. Pettit did, however, have ties to the Fijian who led the revolt, an American-educated, bald-headed former government forest manager named George Speight. The two men had once worked together to shake up the local timber industry -- and were so close that Fiji police are investigating whether Mr. Pettit paid bribes to Mr. Speight. Both men deny the allegations, saying the payments were for legitimate business expenses.
When Mr. Speight stormed the parliament building and overthrew the elected government last May, he carried not only an AK-47 rifle but his own blueprint for becoming Fiji's timber king.
"Some people used the mahogany issue to raise the emotions of landowners and as an excuse to topple the government," said Anup Kumar, who was ousted as minister of commerce in the coup. "They thought they could get rich from green gold."
Mr. Pettit, 57, is tall and silver-haired, with courtly manners and a tendency to talk in 15-minute spurts, like a salesman wary of letting a customer interrupt him. He has spent most of his career financing real estate projects in California, Texas and Washington State.
He says that it was a missionary impulse, more than money, that prompted him to search for timber investments abroad. He wanted to provide poor nations with the capital and the technology to make the most of their forests, reducing their reliance on multinational companies that do not have their best interests in mind.
"Our big companies tend to take the resources of developing countries without giving them any value," Mr. Pettit said in a breakfast interview near his Seattle home. "It's the last vestige of colonialism in my opinion."
 
The 'Laboratory'
Landowner Ire Finds an Audience
Mr. Pettit said he had explored doing business in Russia and Africa. But when a group of Fijian landowners contacted him in 1996 through a mutual friend, he found what he called the perfect laboratory: a poor but seemingly stable nation with little foreign investment, a place where a small American businessman could make a big splash.
But as he weighed in, Mr. Pettit found that his prospective partners were drawing him deeply into a domestic struggle over land rights. The landowners wanted to buy out government leases on their ancestral lands, letting them harvest the timber and get rich turning it into veneer and furniture.
Nearly all the land in Fiji belongs to familial groups of indigenous, ethnic Melanesians, much as crown property in England belongs to the queen. Though land is often leased long-term for public and private uses, the holdings are a birthright of native Fijians, a situation that sets them apart even from multigeneration Indo-Fijians, who represent half the population and who dominate Fiji's commercial sector.
In the 1950's and 60's, the British colonial administration leased land to plant trees, including pine, which is a fast-growing softwood, and Honduran mahogany, a slow-growing hardwood. The leases paid landowners only a nominal rent -- an average of about 4 cents an acre each year -- for what was seen as an experiment. Many, but not all, of the leases gave landowners the rights to share profits if the planting proved successful.
When the pine began maturing in the 1980's, a decade after the British left, the new Fiji government established its own company, Fiji Pine, to harvest the trees. But the company mostly shredded the logs into chips and exported the chips to Japan at low prices, usually at a loss.
Landowners, after realizing no profit from pine, scrambled to make sure they made money on mahogany, which is just now ready to start cutting.
Fiji has 125,000 acres of high-grade hardwood, probably the world's largest stock of the species. And, unlike Brazil and other countries with a lot of indigenous mahogany, there are no environmental limits on harvesting from tree farms.
Mr. Pettit agreed to help, by proposing to sell tens of millions of dollars in bonds to finance the development of a forest-products industry, then repay the bonds from the proceeds of the sales of the timber products. If carried off, it would have been Fiji's first bond sale of any kind. It would also have earned Mr. Pettit millions in fees before a single tree was felled.
There were obstacles from the start. The biggest one was that Mr. Pettit met resistance from Fiji Pine, which had no interest in seeing landowners buy back their property and set up a competing business.
The setback might have prompted some people to withdraw -- Mr. Pettit said that he considered "just getting out." Instead, he and his partners began a private investigation into the operations of Fiji Pine, compiling a report that claimed to show how powerful officials had used dubious accounting to profit at landowners' expense.
And Mr. Pettit rallied landowners to do something about it.
"I told them, 'You people have to get up and take on your own system or it will never get fixed,' " he said.
 
The Alliance
An American Finds A Local Partner
Mr. Pettit, an American outsider, soon recruited an ally in his fight. Through his local partners, he met George Speight, then the managing director of Fiji Heath, an insurance brokerage firm. The two discussed insurance -- any bond deal on the trees would require an insurance package -- but also timber politics.
Mr. Speight, in his early 40's and trained in business at Andrews University in Michigan, was a protege of powerful native Fijian political figures in the then-ruling party. Burly, boxer-chinned and full of loud charm, Mr. Speight lived in a small apartment above JJ's, a bar and nightclub that he partly owned and had turned into a gossipy watering hole for local businessmen and government officials.
Unlike anyone else Mr. Pettit met in Suva, Mr. Speight understood financial markets. And unlike the Americans, Mr. Speight could communicate those concepts in Fijian.
"He's a godsend," Mr. Pettit wrote in a memo at the time. He committed to a broad arrangement with Mr. Speight, agreeing to pay his company a monthly fee for a variety of services, including insurance advice, office space and consulting.
When Mr. Pettit visited Fiji, Mr. Speight became his key contact and his liaison with landowners. Mr. Pettit said that he and Mr. Speight developed a shared vision for a unified timber industry, stripped of turf-conscious bureaucrats who did not understand American finance.
Before long, Mr. Speight was hooked on timber. He was boasting to friends that government patrons had secured him the leadership post at Fiji Hardwood, a new, government-owned entity set up to exploit the maturing mahogany plantations. By late 1998, Mr. Speight was also appointed chairman of Fiji Pine, the first step toward fulfilling his ambition to unite the timber industry.
By early 1999, the deal of Mr. Pettit's career seemed within grasp. Mr. Speight had shaken up Fiji Pine, clearing out many bureaucrats opposed to Mr. Pettit's plan. Mr. Speight also selected Mr. Pettit's company, Timber Resources Management, as one of two finalists seeking to harvest the mahogany groves.
If both deals materialized, the underwriting commissions, management fees and long-term profit sharing to Mr. Pettit's team would total, by some estimates, $100 million.
In March 1999, as both deals hung in the balance, Mr. Speight submitted an invoice to Mr. Pettit on his own letterhead that asserted he was owed $26,000 for rent and consulting services over several months in 1998. He specified a personal Australian bank account for payment.
Mr. Speight had sought compensation before, but Mr. Pettit, while acknowledging he owed some past-due bills, said he held off paying. He disputed Mr. Speight's estimates and questioned why Mr. Speight asked to be paid to his own bank account instead of to Heath. Mr. Pettit also acknowledged that Mr. Speight's demand came at a difficult time -- after Mr. Speight had assumed powerful government posts.
Despite those qualms, Mr. Pettit said he paid Mr. Speight $10,000 himself and arranged for one of his partners in Fiji to pay another $5,000. Those payments, shy of what Mr. Speight had demanded, are currently under investigation by the Fiji police.
Whether the payments might have swayed Mr. Speight to award the timber contracts to Mr. Pettit is not known. Not long after the issue arose, the party that backed Mr. Speight lost parliamentary elections to a coalition headed by Mahendra Chaudhry. Within a short time, Mr. Speight lost his government posts.
 
The Politics
Sugar Interests Are An Unseen Player
Mr. Chaudhry's new government promised a quick decision on timber sales. Even without Mr. Speight's help, Mr. Pettit felt he had the superior bid. His main challenger was the Commonwealth Development Corporation, a British concern with a 40-year track record in Fiji. But Mr. Pettit had a much more ambitious proposal that valued the mahogany crop at $210 million versus about $65 million for the British company.
What Mr. Pettit apparently did not know at the time was that Mr. Chaudhry, the first ethnic Indian prime minister in 13 years, needed the backing of Fiji's former colonial patron in negotiations with the European Union over export supports for sugar. Sugar is Fiji's No. 1 industry and a business dominated by ethnic Indians; Britain could help with sugar subsidies, but the British wanted Commonwealth Development to get the timber concession. Moreover, the new Fijian government -- unlike Mr. Speight -- seemed to have an instinctual distrust of foreign bonds.
As promised, Mr. Chaudhry decided the matter quickly. He told the British company that it was the "preferred bidder," subject to final talks. Mr. Pettit, having already invested about $2 million in Fiji, sensed disaster. He recruited the American Embassy to intervene.
After repeated diplomatic requests, Mr. Chaudhry agreed to reconsider the American plan. He also agreed to send a group of top government officials to visit Fahnestock & Company, the Wall Street investment bank Mr. Pettit had signed up to underwrite the bond. The State Department paid for the trip.
The intervention appeared to work. Two of Mr. Chaudhry's cabinet members overseeing the mahogany bid wrote a glowing report after the New York visit that signaled strong support for the Americans.
But by late 1999, the action in Fiji had started to shift outside Suva, to villages scattered among the mahogany plantations. There, Mr. Chaudhry's initial support for the smaller British bid had inflamed landowners already fuming about not being consulted on land-use issues. Mr. Pettit said he hoped the landowner unrest would help him. After all, he had been lured to Fiji by disgruntled landowners representing 250 village chiefs, many with both pine and mahogany on their land. He cultivated support, drawing up tables showing how landowners could pocket far more from his plan than the British alternative.
At the same time, Mr. Speight was fanning landowner discontent for his own purposes. Stripped of his positions, he had returned to his family farm but he had not abandoned his plan to unite -- and run -- the timber industry. He crisscrossed the main island, Viti Levu, mobilizing landowners to form their own company, with him as the head. Their demand: full control of plantations be returned to ancestral chiefs.
Mr. Speight's plan found a receptive audience. "My response was, 'Get the government out of this. This is my land,' " said Ratu Nd Tawakelevu, 69, the chief of Naimasimasi Village and a mahogany landowner. Mr. Tawakelevu, whose modest home is built on mahogany stilts, said the chiefs had named Mr. Speight executive of a new land trust.
 
The Coup
From Parliament To an Island Prison
Events came to a turning point last spring. Mr. Chaudhry, who had included projected revenues from a timber deal in the government's budget for the year, pushed for a decision on a foreign partner. Going into a decisive cabinet meeting in March, Mr. Pettit believed he had won the concession. But Mr. Chaudhry surprised some members of his own administration when he swung firmly behind the British company, participants in the cabinet meeting said. That set off a dizzying succession of charges and countercharges that made mahogany front-page news in Fiji for weeks.
Shortly after the cabinet decision, the American ambassador, Osmand Siddique, went public with a scathing broadside, complaining in a speech about a "government reversal" that he called "nontransparent," and warned that unless the decision was revoked, American investors would flee Fiji. A local consultant who had earlier worked for Mr. Pettit also stirred things up, accusing the Chaudhry government of selling out landowner interests to curry favor with the British and protect sugar cane farmers.
To complicate matters, Fiji TV in April reported on Mr. Pettit's payments to Mr. Speight. Though both denied the money was a bribe, the report gave Mr. Chaudhry, who sensed a growing political threat from landowners, ammunition to support his mahogany decision. He accused Mr. Pettit of being a carpetbagger with a scheme to extract grand profits from timber but no money of his own to invest. "You will not be able to develop the mahogany industry on hot air," he scolded.
But the uproar in the capital seemed to solidify landowner opposition to Mr. Chaudhry. Some 10,000 indigenous Fijians marched through Suva in late March, calling on the government to cease making decisions on two key land issues: the mahogany and renewal of leases on land used to grow sugar cane.
Mr. Speight's landowner coalition was encouraging the protesters, in language that became overtly racist. They asserted that ethnic Indians could not be trusted to reach crucial decisions on native land matters.
On May 19, landowners again marched on Suva, this time 20,000 strong. While the march degenerated into a riot that destroyed some ethnic Indian-run businesses, Mr. Speight took over the parliament building with seven paramilitary troops and captured Mr. Chaudhry and his cabinet. The rebels held them as hostages for almost two months.
The coup was haphazard, with disparate supporters and a changing list of demands. Fijians speculate on the identity of its mastermind, often dismissing Mr. Speight as a front for powerful political interests. But it does seem likely that Mr. Speight intended to emerge from the coup as the mahogany king. While he kept the Chaudhry administration locked up, he ordered supporters to fan out and gather signatures of village chiefs on a "Deed of Sovereignty," according to people told to do that.
The deed would have abrogated government leases and vested control over Fiji's natural resources in a Speight-led entity. Had the army not turned decisively against Mr. Speight in late July -- its officers eventually arrested him despite having earlier granted him amnesty -- his plan might have come to fruition, the police said.
Mr. Speight is now in prison on the tiny island of Nukulau off Suva, surrounded by shark-infested waters and awaiting trial, charged with treason. Mr. Pettit, who has given up all hope of reaching a timber deal in Fiji, has filed half a dozen lawsuits in local courts against the government to recover some of the money he lost. He is also waiting for the Fiji police to decide whether to take action on his payment to Mr. Speight.
The coup left just one physical monument in Suva. On the third night of the hostage-taking, Speight supporters raced down Gladstone Road in four-wheel-drive vehicles and threw gasoline bombs into Fiji Hardwood's headquarters.
Whether intended to cover a theft of documents or simply as a symbolic act of terror, the fire left the twisted tin roof of the colonial-era building resting precariously on a few charred timbers.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: George Speight, top, who held the Fijian cabinet hostage for two months, had sought to control the country's timber operations. The foiled coup led to disturbances in which the headquarters of Fiji Hardwood were firebombed. (Reuters); (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C1); Village chiefs in Fiji, like Ratu Isekeli R. Cabenalevu, above, remain an untapped source of political power in the country. Both sides in a recent dispute over timber farming tried to cultivate their support. (Talat Mehmodd for The New York Times)(pg. C8)
 
Map of Fuji Islands highlighting Nukulau: George Speight, a former Fijian official, is being held in a prison on the tiny island of Nukulau. (pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FIJI (99%); INDIA (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MELANESIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: FIJI HARDWOOD

ORGANIZATION: FIJI HARDWOOD

GEOGRAPHIC: FIJI; FIJI (99%); INDIA (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MELANESIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; FORESTS AND FORESTRY; WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS; TREASON; BRIBERY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT COUPS (92%); POLITICS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); BEACHES (78%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (76%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); TREASON (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); RAIN FORESTS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); BRIBERY (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; CHAUDHRY, MAHENDRA (PRIME MIN); SPEIGHT, GEORGE MARSHALL W PETTIT (87%); GEORGE SPEIGHT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



323 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE TEXAS GOVERNOR;
Bush Challenges Clinton-Gore Record on Protecting the Environment

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: MONROE, Wash., Sept. 13

 BODY:
Gov. George W. Bush aggressively challenged Vice President Al Gore today on one of his signature issues, calling Mr. Gore's commitment to the environment into question by saying that the Clinton administration had seriously neglected the upkeep of national parks.
Mr. Bush proposed spending an additional $3.75 billion in federal money over five years to repair and maintain them. And he framed that plan in terms of his own love of the outdoors, which he extolled from the wooded banks of a salmon-filled river here. 
 "Under this administration, the parks are in worse shape than ever before," said Mr. Bush, the Republican presidential nominee. "Sewage flows untreated into the lakes and streams of Yellowstone National Park. Civil War relics have been soaked by a leaky roof at Gettysburg.
"For eight years," Mr. Bush added, "this administration has talked of environmentalism while our national parks are crumbling."
Mr. Bush did not stop there. He also lashed into Mr. Gore for not saying whether he supported breaching hydroelectric dams in Washington that have hindered spawning salmon. Environmentalists are pushing hard for such a measure.
Mr. Bush opposes it, saying that technology should be developed to save both the dams and salmon, a position supported by many prominent Democratic officials in the state for economic reasons.
Mr. Gore, who has courted the support of nationwide environmental groups, has said he would convene a summit of people on different sides of the issue to discuss possible resolutions.
"He's refused to say whether he would breach the dams or not," Mr. Bush said today, after first emphasizing his concern for salmon. He was standing on a piece of private property that, with government aid, had established a kind of salmon nursery to feed and fatten the fish and increase their chances of surviving and reproducing.
"Before the people of this good state vote," Mr. Bush said, "I think you deserve an answer. I think you need to know where he stands on this important environmental issue."
Mr. Bush had spent much of the past few weeks of the presidential campaign either on the defensive or immersed in subject matters unrelated to his chosen themes. But his strongly worded remarks were a clear attempt to seize the offensive against Mr. Gore and leave the vice president with some explaining to do. Mr. Bush was also tapping into issues of special concern to residents of Washington, the state on the West Coast that his aides feel he has the best chance of winning.
At the least, the Bush campaign would like to do well enough along the West Coast, which Mr. Gore is counting on winning, to force the vice president to spend precious time and money here. After Washington, Mr. Bush was scheduled to spend two days in California.
The environment is especially important to voters in this region and one reason they often tilt Democratic. But Mr. Bush has been devoting this entire week trying to blunt Democrats' typical advantages on health care, the environment and education.
Mr. Gore's aides said today that Mr. Bush's environmental record in Texas contradicted his claims. The Sierra Club, a liberal advocacy group, echoed that assessment, quickly issuing a statement that expressed deep skepticism about the genuineness of Mr. Bush's commitment to national parks.
The Gore campaign and the Sierra Club noted that Texas ranks near the bottom of states according to several environmental measures, including spending on parks. Mr. Gore's aides further noted that Mr. Bush supports oil exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, a wilderness area that Mr. Gore has pledged to protect.
"It's laughable that Bush would reinvent himself as an environmentalist," said Douglas Hattaway, a spokesman for the Gore campaign.
Mr. Gore's aides took issue with Mr. Bush's portrait of a national park system in decline. Literature distributed by the Bush campaign said that the Clinton administration, for the coming fiscal year, had requested a 22 percent decrease in financing for maintenance of national parks, to $180 million from $230 million.
But Mr. Gore's aides said that those figures ignored the fact that the administration had developed other sources of revenue, outside the appropriation process, for the maintenance of parks. They also said that the administration was spending much more on parks than the last Republican administration -- that of Mr. Bush's father.
Mr. Bush said the spending was too focused on converting more and more private land into public parks and that, as a result, there was a roughly $5 billion backlog of necessary maintenance work in parks. He said that he would eliminate this with the additional spending he was proposing, which he cast as a cultural and moral imperative.
"Our national parks contain America's memories and America's grandeur," Mr. Bush said in a 13-minute speech rife with poetic flourishes. He read it from teleprompters, an incongruous addition to the sylvan surroundings.
The Texas governor said that he also wanted to increase, to $38 million a year from $18 million, the federal spending on scientific surveys and monitoring of the land and water in national parks.
But he said that while he welcomed federal responsibility for national parks, local wilderness areas and natural resources should be managed by local governments.
Explaining the roots and the depth of his environmental sensitivities, he talked about his ranch in a remote, unspoiled patch of central Texas and of the many birds there.
And he was close to rhapsodic in his praise of the salmon being nurtured in the nursery along the Skykomish River that he was visiting.
"For all of us," he said, "these fish are a wonder."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George W. Bush, Senator Slade Gorton, right, and others walked yesterday near a salmon-breeding stream in Washington State. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WASHINGTON (STATE); UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; NATIONAL PARKS, MONUMENTS AND SEASHORES; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; DAMS AND DIKES; HYDROELECTRIC POWER; SALMON; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE NATIONAL PARKS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FISHES (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (75%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (75%); GOVERNORS (74%); LAKES (73%); 

PERSON: BRUNI, FRANK; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) AL GORE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



324 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: THE SENATE DEBATE: EXCERPTS;
From Candidates, Strong Words on Soft Money, Health Care and Chutzpah

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the senatorial debate last night between Hillary Rodham Clinton and Rick A. Lazio as transcribed by The New York Times. The debate was held in Buffalo and broadcast live on NBC stations across the state. Its moderator was Tim Russert of NBC. The full text is available at The New York Times on the Web at www.nytimes.com. 

Patients' Bill of Rights
LAZIO: . . . If you look at my record, it's a record of independence in the House, whether it's standing up on the environment or on funding for the arts or on a whole range of other issues I've been able to stake my claim and have a record that's reflective of New York.
You know, I was also the person who sponsored legislation to help cancer patients. Also the person to help root out Medicaid fraud with legislation. I've been a doer. I haven't been passive. I've gotten things done. And yes, sometimes that means you have to stand on principle even when it's not politically popular.
But in this case we did protect patients two different ways. The end result is that you've got to get the job done. . . . And I'm proud of my record.
CLINTON: . . . Listening to the congressman's response reminds me of a word I've heard a lot of this past year: chutzpah. He stands here and tells us that he's a moderate, mainstream, independent member of Congress. Well, in fact, he was a deputy whip to Newt Gingrich. He voted to shut the government down. He voted to cut $270 billion from Medicare. He voted for the biggest education cuts in our history. . . .
 
Upstate Economy
CLINTON: Well, I think everybody in upstate wants to do what will work to turn the economy around. And I've set forth my ideas. I'm open to any other ideas from the mayor and anyone else. And what I want everyone to know is that I will use my 30 years of experience, my last eight years in the White House to bring to bear not just the votes that I cast or the speeches I make on the floor of the Senate. . . .
LAZIO: Well, I have to go back to Mrs. Clinton's last remark because it has to redefine the word chutzpah. Mrs. Clinton, you of all people shouldn't try to make guilt by association. Newt Gingrich isn't running in this race. I'm running in this race. Let's talk about my record. . . .
Every year we send $15 billion a year more to Washington than we get back. And it's at it's worst point ever under this administration. . . .
 
The Lewinsky Matter
CLINTON: That was a very, a very painful time for me, for my family and for our country. It is something that I regret deeply that anyone had to go through. . . . But from my perspective, you know, I'm very hopeful that we can go forward in a united way.
That certainly is what I've tried to do. And I've tried to be as forthcoming as I could given the circumstances that I faced. Obviously I didn't mislead anyone. I didn't know the truth. . . .
 
Jonathan Pollard
CLINTON: . . . What Mr. Pollard did was a terrible crime against the United States. It was a great breach of trust and national security and he plead guilty, was convicted and is serving a very long prison term. When I looked into this I think that everyone who has an opinion about it agrees that what he did was absolutely wrong. The question for me is around the due process issues concerning the way that he was sentenced. . . .
LAZIO: . . . Last, in fact, December of 1998, President Clinton made a statement. He said that he was going to complete a review on Jonathan Pollard on Jan. 11 of 1999 and issue an explanation as to whether or not clemency would be granted. And of course the president is the only one who can issue clemency.
Well 600 days have gone by and still no answer. I think the president owes it to us to make a decision . . .
 
Campaign Finance
LAZIO: . . . I'm willing to not raise a dime of soft money, not spend a dime of soft money and call on all outside groups to stay away from this race and not spend any money in furtherance of my campaign. . . .
CLINTON: . . . Back in May I made exactly that offer. I said, let's forgo soft money. But let's also be sure we don't have these independent expenditures . . . And I said, you know, if you would do this, I would certainly abide by it. If you will get signed agreements from all your friends who say they're raising $32 million and will not be running so-called independent ads . . . I think we can have an agreement.
 RUSSERT: Do we have a deal, Mr. Lazio?
LAZIO: Who said -- I -- I -- I'd like to get it done today.
RUSSERT: Will you get those signed agreements?
LAZIO: Yeah, I'd be happy to. But I want you to be the -- I want to get it done right now. I don't want any more wriggle room. I don't want any more evasion. The truth is, Tim, is that Mrs. Clinton has been airing millions of dollars in soft-money ads. It's the height of hypocrisy to talk about soft money when she's been raising soft money by the bucketloads out in Hollywood and spending all that money on negative advertising. . . . Let's just get this deal done right now.
RUSSERT: Can I give Mrs. Clinton?
LAZIO: Right here, here it is. Let's sign it. It's -- it's the New York Freedom of Soft Money Pact. I signed it. We can -- we can both sit down together. We can all get all the media in here. We will make sure it's an ironclad deal. And . . . I'm happy to -- to abide by anything that we all agree on. But let's get it done now. Let's not get any more wriggle room.
RUSSERT: Mrs. Clinton, do you want to respond?
CLINTON: Well, yes, I certainly do. You know, I -- I -- I -- I admire that. That was a wonderful performance and I ----
LAZIO: Well, why don't you just sign it?
CLINTON:. And you -- and you did it very well.
LAZIO: I'm not asking you to admire it. I'm asking you to sign it.
CLINTON: Well, I would be happy to, when you give me the signed letters ----
LAZIO: Well, right here. Right here.
CLINTON: When you give me ----
LAZIO: Right here, sign it right now.
CLINTON: Well -- well, we'll shake -- we'll shake on this ----
LAZIO: No, no, I want your signature. Because I think that everybody wants to see you signing something that you said you were for. I'm for it. I haven't done it. You've been violating it. . . .
CLINTON: And -- and this new radio ad from the Republican Party using soft money is not part of your campaign.
LAZIO: Oh, well, what are we talking about here? No, let's just put things in perspective.
RUSSERT: . . . We are out of time. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) NEW YORK TIMES CO (91%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (91%); MEDICAID (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) MEDICAID (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; DEBATING; TELEVISION POLITICAL DEBATES (91%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); MEDICARE (75%); MEDICAID (72%); CANCER (71%); MEDICARE FRAUD (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); TIM RUSSERT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



325 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: THE SENATE DEBATE: THE VOICES;
Cautious Assessments Favor the Performance of Mrs. Clinton

SERIES: UNDECIDED: The Reviews

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS 

DATELINE: CORTLANDT MANOR, N.Y., Sept. 13

 BODY:
Hillary Rodham Clinton won the admiration of a small group of undecided voters tonight for what they called an assured, good-natured performance in her face-off with Representative Rick A. Lazio, who struck them as too acerbic.
Doug Taggart, vice president of a financial services company who lives in this northern Westchester suburb with his wife and two daughters, was typical in his assessment of the first debate in this pivotal race for the United States Senate. 
 "If one were to say who was senatorial, it is she," Mr. Taggart said of Mrs. Clinton. "He came off as a much more immature person, and she came off very collected. And she was warmer than I've ever seen her."
Mr. Taggart is one of a panel of undecided voters drawn from early New York Times/CBS News polls who have been discussing their thoughts, wishes, hopes and disappointments as the Senate race has unfolded. These voters, six of them still undecided from an original group of 11, did not declare the debate decisive, although they were of one mind about who had won the day.
Mr. Taggart snorted derisively at Mr. Lazio's repeated references to Mrs. Clinton as a carpetbagger. He questioned the wisdom of holding President Clinton's infidelity against her, and he waited, in frustration, for a clear explanation of what he called the congressman's inconsistent voting record.
What most irked Mr. Taggart, and the others, was Mr. Lazio's relentless attacks on Mrs. Clinton. "If he thinks he's being stern with her, he's out of place," Mr. Taggart said. "He just sounds sassy. There's a lack of gravitas."
The same was true for Tom and Barbara Smith, a struggling working-class couple in Saugerties, N.Y., who watched the debate from their local firehouse. The Smiths, who have begged for a race free of mudslinging, said Mr. Lazio had set out to "destroy character" and "put people down" in a way that was both "cruel" and "not constructive."
Karl Schwartz, a computer consultant on Staten Island whose view of the race has been driven by the fact that his wife has cancer, said he continued to lean toward Mr. Lazio because "he scores high in his commitment to helping cancer patients." But Mr. Schwartz gave Mrs. Clinton high marks for her "command of the facts" and her "comfortable and professional" demeanor.
"There is no doubt that she can work effectively as a senator, that she can express the issues well," Mr. Schwartz said, sounding agonized that his "one dimensional" approach to a decision might be unfair to Mrs. Clinton. "I'll give Hillary one more chance to be specific about cancer," he said.
Broadcast from Buffalo, the debate was dense with technical questions about the flagging upstate economy. On this topic, Mrs. Clinton seemed both more specific and confident in her answers, which won the applause of Cathy and Bob Harrison from Amsterdam, N.Y.
Mrs. Harrison, a nurse, who was leaning toward Mr. Lazio just a few months ago, said she found him "less committed" on the issues of returning jobs to the northern and western reaches of the state. Her husband, a social studies teacher, agreed.
There were two dramatic moments of the hourlong debate: the screening of Mrs. Clinton's firm defense of her husband on the NBC "Today" program in January 1998 during the Monica Lewinsky scandal, and Mr. Lazio's challenge, with document and pen in hand, that both candidates sign a pledge not to use soft money.
Mr. Taggart saw the first lady's reaction to the tape as a demonstration of grace under pressure. "It was obviously very painful to witness and respond," he said. "It made you feel for her."
Mrs. Smith, in Saugerties, took great offense at the use of the tape. "It's not fair," she said. "This is about what they're going to do, not what her husband did."
As for Mr. Lazio's bravura move of presenting Mrs. Clinton with a pledge to eschew soft money, Mr. Taggart said it was a no-win moment for her. She could not sign a document she had not read, he said. So, instead, she held firm that she would do so only if Mr. Lazio's supporters all avoided future soft money donations.
Mr. Schwartz, for his part, found the soft-money pledge a foolish bit of theatrics. "It was hard to look at," he said, scornfully. But Mr. Harrison saw it as the congressman's best moment. "To me that was the strongest thing he had to say," he said.
But moments of high drama aside, Mr. Taggart and the others were impressed by Mrs. Clinton's command of the issues and her self-control when baited by Mr. Lazio, who led off almost all of his exchanges with an attack on her character. "She didn't let it become tit-for-tat," Mr. Taggart said.
Mr. Lazio's task, as these voters saw it, was to present himself as a credible candidate and to showcase what many describe as his winning personality. Instead, Mr. Taggart and others said, he was unimpressive on the issues and testy.
"He had an opportunity to get people who didn't know him to like him," Mr. Taggart said. "I don't think he accomplished that, and it's a real opportunity lost for him."
Mr. Smith said his mind was still open, but less open than it had been the day before. "If they debate again and something concrete comes out of Lazio, then there's a possibility," he said. "But his chances of winning me over are slipping away."
"I liked Hillary's professionalism," he continued, saying he was especially impressed by her cool in the face of Mr. Lazio's barbs. "She was taking more than she was giving back, even though I could see he was getting to her. I think she came off better. She stuck to her guns and what she believes in."
 
Undecided
 
 This is the eighth article in a series following a group of New York State voters from diverse backgrounds as they make up their minds on the Senate race.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Doug and Vickie Taggart, in their Westchester home, watched with their daughters as Representative Rick A. Lazio debated Hillary Rodham Clinton. "If one were to say who was senatorial, it is she," Mr. Taggart said. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; DEBATING; SURVEYS AND SERIES; TELEVISION VOTERS & VOTING (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); CANCER (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); GROSS, JANE HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



326 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1682 words

HEADLINE: THE SENATE DEBATE: THE OVERVIEW;
Lazio and Hillary Clinton Clash On Donations, Taxes and Trust

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Sept. 13

 BODY:
Hillary Rodham Clinton and Representative Rick A. Lazio slashed into each other for nearly 60 minutes in a nationally televised debate tonight, attacking each other's credentials, integrity and political views. Near the debate's end, Mr. Lazio crossed the stage to the first lady, waving a piece of paper in his hand as he unsuccessfully challenged her to sign a pledge renouncing the use of soft money in her campaign.
The two candidates for United States Senate, in their first debate, engaged in what may well have been the most raucous meeting of two candidates for statewide office in New York in a generation. 
 Mr. Lazio, viewing the debate as his best chance yet to introduce himself to New York voters, took after Mrs. Clinton from the very first question and hammered her at virtually every opportunity for the rest of the hourlong program. He attacked her as untrustworthy, mocked her attempt to serve as a senator from a state where she has never before lived, and at one point grew visibly angry as he described her as "beyond shameless." Excerpts, Page B4.
For her part, the first lady repeatedly sought to link Mr. Lazio to the policies of Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, noting that Mr. Lazio voted with Republicans in shutting down the government in 1994. She attacked what she described as his "reckless" plan to cut taxes by at least $770 billion.
But perhaps the most striking moment of the evening came not with Mr. Lazio and Mrs. Clinton, but with the first lady and the moderator of the debate, Tim Russert, the host of NBC's Sunday program "Meet the Press." He showed a videotape from the "Today" program of Jan. 27, 1998, in which Mrs. Clinton, just after the Lewinsky scandal broke, defended her husband and denied the allegations that he had had an affair with a White House intern. Mr. Russert asked Mrs. Clinton if she regretted "misleading the American people" and if she would "now apologize for branding people as part of a vast right-wing conspiracy."
Mrs. Clinton, who has declined to appear as a guest on "Meet the Press," appeared shaken by the question. Her eyes turned downward and her face tightened.
"Well you know Tim, that was a very, a very painful time for me, for my family and for our country," she said quietly. "It is something that I regret deeply that anyone had to go through.
"I've tried to be as forthcoming as I could, given the circumstances that I faced," she said, her eyes still downcast. "Obviously I didn't mislead anyone. I didn't know the truth. And there's a great deal of pain associated with that and my husband has certainly acknowledged that and made it clear that he did mislead the country as well as his family."
The exchange came in a debate that had been viewed as a critical juncture for both sides -- and particularly for Mr. Lazio, who seemed intent on erasing any doubt among Republicans about the vigor he might bring to this contest against Mrs. Clinton. And there was no doubt that Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Lazio had arrived with the intent of getting out one central charge against the other.
Mrs. Clinton mentioned Mr. Gingrich a half-dozen times. "Time and time again, when he's had a choice to make, particularly at the critical turning point when our country was really on the line with Newt Gingrich's Contract with America, he stood with the Republican leadership and Newt Gingrich," Mrs. Clinton said of Mr. Lazio.
Mr. Lazio's use of repetition revolved around the words "trust" and "character," painting Mrs. Clinton with the same broad accusations that Republicans have used against her husband. "At the heart of this campaign are two critical issues: character and trust," Mr. Lazio said in his closing statement. "They've come up all night. Now, the measure of someone's character and trust is not what you say; it's what you actually do.'
Both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Lazio arrived with presidential-campaign-size squadrons of aides and supporters, in a city where a presidential-campaign-size squadron of reporters had descended. Mr. Lazio's campaign kept up a constant patter of e-mails to reporters attacking Mrs. Clinton during the debate, and both candidates and their aides -- not surprisingly -- declared victory once they were done.
A number of Republicans had said that Mr. Lazio, who remains a relatively unknown quantity in the state, had more to gain -- and to prove -- with the presumably huge audience he found tonight. And Mr. Lazio fairly leapt from behind the lectern as he went after the first lady, not even backing away when Mr. Russert gave him a chance to follow up on Mrs. Clinton's reply to her husband's infidelities.
"I think that, frankly, what's so troubling here with respect to what my opponent just said, is somehow that it only matters what you say when you get caught," Mr. Lazio said. "And character and trust is about, well, more than that. And blaming others every time you have responsibility? Unfortunately, that's become a pattern, I think, for my opponent. And it's something that I reject and I believe that New Yorkers reject. We can do well better."
The first lady did anything but turn the other cheek, even though Mr. Lazio attacked first. In answer to the initial question, Mr. Lazio attacked Mrs. Clinton's effort to advocate a national health care system, saying that "a New Yorker would have never made that proposal" and that "the bottom line is, it would have been terrible for New York."
Mrs. Clinton used Mr. Lazio's response to introduce one of her dominant themes of the evening. "Well, you know Tim, listening to the congressman's response reminds me of a word I've heard a lot of this past year: chutzpah," she said. "He stands here and tells us that he's a moderate, mainstream, independent member of Congress. Well, in fact, he was a deputy whip to Newt Gingrich. He voted to shut the government down. He voted to cut $270 billion from Medicare. He voted for the biggest education cuts in our history."
Mr. Lazio returned to the attack two questions later, in response to a question posed to him about the upstate economy. "Well, I have to go back to Mrs. Clinton's last remark because it has to redefine the word chutzpah," he said. "Mrs. Clinton, you of all people shouldn't try to make guilt by association. Newt Gingrich isn't running in this race. I'm running in this race. Let's talk about my record."
At times, the debate here seemed on the verge of spinning beyond even Mr. Russert's control, particularly when Mr. Lazio yanked the soft money pledge from his pocket. Debate organizers later said that Mr. Lazio broke one of the debate rules against using props, though Mr. Lazio's advisers said they would make no apologies.
The pledge produced by Mr. Lazio called on the candidates to renounce the use of soft money, the largely unregulated campaign contributions that have proven to be a major benefit for the first lady. Mrs. Clinton has raised almost $22 million for her campaign, both through millions in soft money and in direct contributions, and Mr. Lazio has accumulated about $19 million.
Mr. Lazio has, so far, not set up any soft-money fund-raising committees on his behalf. However, he has benefited from spending by independent committees, which have been running ads in New York attacking Mrs. Clinton. The first lady has said that she is willing to renounce the use of soft money, providing that Mr. Lazio obtains "signed agreements" from those committees promising not to advertise in New York or those sending "mean mail" solicitations.
In truth, a number of political analysts have suggested, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Lazio were probably more interested in winning political advantage than in actually changing campaign finance projects. At the end of the exchange, the two talked over each other, with Mr. Lazio standing trying to press the piece of paper into Mrs. Clinton's hand, and Mrs. Clinton trying to get Mr. Lazio to shake her hand on the broader proposal she was making.
"You know, I admire that," she said. "That was a wonderful performance and I ---- "
"Well, why don't you just sign it?"' Mr. Lazio demanded.
"And you, and you did it very well," Mrs. Clinton said, ignoring his demands.
"I'm not asking you to admire it," Mr. Lazio said. "I'm asking you to sign it."
Both candidates seemed nervous, particularly at the start, though both seemed to get looser as the night went along. For much of the evening, Mrs. Clinton was serious; she did not smile often. By contrast, Mr. Lazio pulsated while smiling; one of Mrs. Clinton's advisers suggested later that he was almost smirking.
Through all the squabbling, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Lazio offered clearly different views of what government should do and what they would do in the Senate. Mr. Lazio advocated large tax cuts as a way of invigorating the economy, and school vouchers to help the nation's education system. Mrs. Clinton attacked those as a threat to the nation's prosperity.
And they sparred over, but steered around, the issue of whether a convicted spy, Jonathan Pollard, should be granted clemency -- a situation favored by many Jews. Both candidates said they did not have access to classified information needed to offer an informed opinion.
 
Lazio's Challenge
Congressman Rick A. Lazio tried to force his opponent, Hillary Rodham Clinton, to sign this pledge last night during their first debate in the race for the New York Senate. The pledge would ban the use of soft money, donations that are largely unregulated and are not supposed to be used to elect individual candidates.
When the signatures of both New York Senate candidates are affixed to this document, I pledge my campaign will:
* Close all soft money accounts and cease from spending soft money from existing accounts. Either refund remaining funds or donate them to charitable causes,
* Refrain from opening any new soft money accounts for the duration of the campaign, and
* Call on all outside groups to stop running ads or conducting other activities designed to support my campaign or attack my opponent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: During a debate last night, Representative Rick A. Lazio asked Hillary Rodham Clinton to sign a pledge renouncing the use of soft money. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Confrontational approaches produced a sharp-toned debate. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; BUFFALO (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; DEBATING; ELECTION ISSUES; ETHICS; FINANCES; IMPEACHMENT POLITICAL DEBATES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); ETHICS (77%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CONSPIRACY (73%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (71%); TAX LAW (65%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; GINGRICH, NEWT; RUSSERT, TIM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (95%); TIM RUSSERT (87%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



327 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
New York City Bonds Get Higher Rating

BYLINE: By Eric Lipton 

 BODY:
New York City yesterday won another endorsement of its improved financial health when Standard & Poor's raised the city's bond rating to the highest level since the fiscal crisis of the mid 70's.
The new A rating, up from A-, is the second time Standard & Poor's has improved its rating of the city's bonds since 1998, but New York is still 8th among the nation's top 10 cities, according to Standard & Poor's. The improvement follows a similar upgrade last month by Moody's Investors Services. 
 "The city has made good progress in its financial management, and certainly the strength of the economy has helped," said Colleen Woodell, a director in public finance for Standard & Poor's.
City officials said yesterday the upgrades should save millions of dollars a year as a result of lower interest costs on money borrowed to pay for construction projects. The city is to offer about $425 million of tax-exempt debt securities for sale next week. Eric Lipton 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP; MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP; MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS BONDS (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); 

PERSON: LIPTON, ERIC

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



328 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
NAVISTAR TO CUT TRUCK PRODUCTION AND JOBS

BYLINE: Reuters 

 BODY:
The Navistar International Corporation said yesterday that it planned to lay off as many as 500 production employees at its plant in Springfield, Ohio, because of declining truck sales. The company, based in Chicago, said the layoffs, most of which will affect members of United Auto Workers Local 402, will take effect Nov. 13. Navistar said it intended to reduce production of its medium and heavy trucks to 287 trucks a day from 334. It said most of the plant's second-shift workers would be laid off until demand increases. The company attributed slow demand in the new-truck market to rising interest rates, rising diesel fuel prices and a glut in the used-truck market. Navistar said last month that it would cut 1,100 salaried and contract jobs. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NAV (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (98%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (91%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: NAVISTAR INTERNATIONAL CORP NAVISTAR INTERNATIONAL CORP (98%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NAVISTAR INTERNATIONAL CORP INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD (OHIO); UNITED STATES (91%); OHIO, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; SALES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (92%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (88%); FUEL MARKETS (66%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (51%); DIESEL FUEL (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000



329 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: For Fans of the British Classic, Less Truly Is More

BYLINE: By KEITH MARTIN 

 BODY:
THE big news in Detroit in 1960 was the arrival of the Big Three's first compact cars: the Chevrolet Corvair, Ford Falcon and Plymouth Valiant. But a truly tiny car, the Mini, arrived in the United States that year, and it has proved to be much more significant.
The Mini, which appeared as Austin and Morris models in Europe in 1959, has been built continuously in England until this month, with 5.3 million made. It foreshadowed the wave of econoboxes in the 1970's and 80's, and its front-drive configuration, with the engine mounted sideways for space efficiency, remains widely copied today. 
 In designing the Mini, Sir Alec Issigonis achieved his goal of devoting 80 percent of the car's space to passengers and just 20 percent to mechanical components. Because the layout allowed no room for a driveshaft, Sir Alec placed the 850 cc, 4-cylinder engine -- and the 4-speed gearbox -- above the driving wheels. The gearbox and engine shared the same lubricating oil, causing Mini owners to pay particular attention to the intervals between oil changes.
Another unusual feature was a suspension of rubber cones, designed by Alex Moulton, instead of coil or leaf springs. He later experimented with a hydrolastic suspension that used rubber containers at each corner, connected by tubes filled with liquid.
The Mini was withdrawn from the American market in 1968 as safety and emissions standards were tightened. The car was gone by the time Japanese imitators flooded the market. (Interestingly, the Mini's hottest market in recent years has been Japan.)
Even three decades after Minis were last imported, American collectors prize them. "Minis are sports cars in a box," said Don Racine, owner of Mini Mania in Milpitas, Calif. "They are every bit as impressive to drive as an open-top classic sports car." Because they are highly maneuverable, "you can dart in and out of traffic like you wouldn't believe," Mr. Racine added.
The 10-inch wheels that contributed to the toylike appearance also provided a low center of gravity. (Twelve-inch wheels became standard in 1974.) With the wheels at the corners, the Mini had a surefooted stance.
Only 120 inches long at a time when American cars ranged up to 225 inches, the Mini could parallel-park in an 11.5-foot space, its manufacturer claimed.
The car's sporting potential was clear by the early 60's, and reinforced when a Mini won the Monte Carlo rally in 1964 and '65. In 1961, John Cooper, a British race driver, created a special edition called the Mini Cooper, and in 1963, the higher-performing Cooper S. Bigger engines of 970, 1,071 and 1,275 cc's were available. The Coopers had twin carburetors, front disc brakes, a shorter shift lever, higher gearing and wider tires. Through 1971, 45,438 Cooper S's were built; they are the most desirable Minis.
Original cars are rare; as inexpensive sports cars, most were driven hard, then fell into disrepair. Most Minis were sold as economy cars and are still seen as such in Britain. But here, Mr. Racine said, "they have become a means of self-expression, and everyone personalizes or customizes them."
During the 60's, rock stars like Paul McCartney were seen driving Minis. Peter Sellers had his customized by Hooper & Company, a London coachbuilder for Rolls-Royce.
In 1960, the Mini sold for $1,295, weighed 1,288 pounds and went 45 miles to the gallon. Standard equipment included a rear-view mirror, sliding side windows, rubber mats, driver's sunvisor, bucket seats and cloth upholstery. An option package offered windshield washers, foam-rubber seats, wheel trim, hinged rear side windows, passenger sunvisor and chromed license plate light.
In addition to the two-door, four-passenger sedan, there was a station wagon, including a "woodie," and a pickup. There have been slight changes over the years: exposed door hinges gave way to internal hinges, for example -- and purists countered with kits to retrofit the old hinges.
Today, Minis are treated as collectibles in the United States. A highly restored Mini Cooper sold for $20,900 last month at an auction in Monterey, Calif. "They're a complicated car to make right," said Brian Ross, a restorer in Portland, Ore. "But properly put together, a Mini Cooper S will let you terrorize modern Japanese 'pocket rockets.' "
Mr. Racine said there were far more 1960-67 Minis left in the United States than in England, where they rusted badly in the damp climate. "Here they are absolute collector cars," Mr. Racine said. "In England, they are still daily transportation."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Mini-cramming contest in the 60's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (72%); MONACO (58%); JAPAN (54%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: MONTE CARLO TMC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (72%); MONACO (58%); JAPAN (54%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); AUTO RACING (67%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (64%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, KEITH; ISSIGONIS, ALEC (SIR) DON RACINE (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



330 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Top European Luxury Goods Retailers Report Strong Profit Gains

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 14

 BODY:
As booming economies around the world fuel the consumption of luxury goods, some of Europe's biggest retailers of luxury goods are reporting strong gains in sales and profits.
The leading luxury goods retailer, LVMH-Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton of France, reported today that operating profit in the first half of the year rose 31 percent, to 762 million euros, or about $655 million, on a 40 percent increase in sales, to 5.03 billion euros. 
 The group attributed the result to particularly strong increases in sales of leather goods and perfumes, including Christian Dior's J'Adore, introduced earlier this year in the United States. But "global economic growth has certainly contributed to these developments," it said. Net profit rose 21 percent in the first half, to 374 million euros.
At the same time, another of Europe's biggest specialty retailers, Pinault-Printemps-Redoute of France, said first-half operating profit rose 35 percent, to 791.1 million euros, on an 8 percent increase in revenue, to 11.3 billion euros. The gain was aided by strong consumer buying in France and the good performance of the Gucci Group, in which Pinault owns a 42 percent share. Pinault said net income rose 23 percent to 20.6 million euros.
Pinault, controlled by the French billionaire Francois Pinault, entered the luxury business in a big way last year, after winning a drawn-out battle with Vuitton for control of Gucci. Vuitton, controlled by another French billionaire, Bernard Arnault, a rival of sorts to Mr. Pinault, owns a 20 percent share of Gucci, but management control rests with Pinault. Since the acquisition, Gucci has used the roughly $3 billion it received from Pinault for a campaign of high-profile acquisitions that has included Yves Saint Laurent, the French fashion house, and Sergio Rossi, an Italian maker of shoes for the wealthy.
Vuitton's strong results were also reflected in the return to profitability of the DFS Group, which is 61 percent controlled by Vuitton.
DFS operates duty-free shops at major airports and had suffered after the Asian economic crisis caused the usually free-spending travelers from Japan and other East Asian countries to cut their airport shopping. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PP (PAR) (94%); PP (BIT) (94%); MC (PAR) (85%); LVMH (BIT) (85%); CDI (PAR) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (94%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (94%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (94%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (94%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (94%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (85%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (85%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (58%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (58%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (65%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON; PINAULT-PRINTEMPS-REDOUTE SA PPR SA (94%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (85%); CHRISTIAN DIOR SA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON; PINAULT-PRINTEMPS-REDOUTE SA

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (65%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPANY REPORTS LUXURY GOODS (94%); RETAILERS (93%); COMPANY PROFITS (92%); EURO (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); FASHION DESIGN (62%); AIRPORTS (61%); FOOTWEAR MFG (50%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN FRANCOIS PINAULT (79%); BERNARD ARNAULT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



331 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Fell in August And Retail Sales Slackened

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14

 BODY:
Producer prices fell unexpectedly and retail sales cooled in August, the government reported today, indicating that the economy, in a record 10th year of expansion, is growing at a pace that is unlikely to ignite inflation.
"It's just about a picture-perfect economy -- impressive economic growth with very little inflationary pressure," said Richard Yamarone, a senior economist at the Argus Research Corporation in New York. 
 Prices paid to producers fell 0.2 percent last month, the first drop since May, the Labor Department said. That reflected declines in the cost of clothing, computers, cars and gasoline.
Retail sales rose 0.2 percent in August, a fourth of the 0.9 percent increase in July, the Commerce Department said. Sales were 7 percent higher than those in the month a year earlier, the smallest year-over-year increase since December 1998. Even so, the pace of sales was a percentage point higher than the average year-over-year gain for the expansion, which began in April 1991.
Energy costs are expected to push September prices higher after crude oil rose to a 10-year high of $35 a barrel this week. Still, with few signs of accelerating inflation, outside of rising petroleum prices, and with slower consumer spending, Federal Reserve policy makers are expected to hold interest rates steady for the rest of the year.
A separate report from the Labor Department showed the number of workers filing for state unemployment benefits rose 13,000 last week, to 324,000. That was the highest in 20 months and suggests slower growth is leading to more layoffs.
The core rate of the Producer Price Index, which excludes energy and food, rose 0.1 percent last month, the same as in July. The cost of cigarettes climbed, and without the increase in tobacco prices, the core rate would have been unchanged, the Labor Department said.
Through August, the overall Producer Price Index rose at a 3.2 percent annual rate, compared with a 2.8 percent pace for the first eight months of 1999. The core index increased at a 1 percent annual rate, compared with no change in the period a year earlier.
August's rise in retail sales was led by increases in purchases of furniture and home furnishings, drugs, groceries and the first increase in clothing in three months.
Outside of those gains, sales were sluggish. A 0.4 percent drop in the value of automobile sales -- which could be a result of a 0.3 percent decline in prices -- held down the overall retail sales gain for the month, even though industry statistics showed a rise in total sales of cars and light trucks in August. The government's auto figures do not always track industry statistics because the Commerce Department surveys auto dealers, while industry statistics are gathered from manufacturers.
Retail sales were also limited by a 1.3 percent decline in sales at gasoline service stations, reflecting lower prices. The price of gasoline at the pump was an average $1.506 a gallon last month. That was down from an average $1.591 a gallon in July.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Producer Prices"
Index of finished goods prices, 1982 = 100. Seasonally adjusted.
 
Graph tracks finished goods prices since March 1999.
(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)
 
"Retail Sales"
Total retail sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.
 
Graph tracks retail sales since March 1999.
(Source: Commerce Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT RESEARCH CORP TECHNOLOGIES INC (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS RETAIL SALES (92%); PRODUCER PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (64%); NEW CAR DEALERS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



332 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Jose Cuervo plans a global campaign to elevate its image from a mere 'party catalyst.'

BYLINE: By Bernard Stamler 

 BODY:
IT is a drink whose brand name has long evoked images of salt-covered hands, limes and single shots, college parties and some none-too-pleasant mornings after.
But all that is about to change, if the people at Jose Cuervo tequila have their way. 
 Beginning next week with a reception at the Playboy mansion in Los Angeles, they are introducing a global campaign called Vive Cuervo. The goal is to elevate tequila from a mere "party catalyst" to a medium of "self-expression," said Carlos Arana, the managing director of Jose Cuervo International Inc., based in New York, the marketing arm of Jose Cuervo of Mexico, which owns the brand. United Distillers and Vintners North America in Stamford, Conn., part of Diageo P.L.C., is the brand's United States distributor.
The brand has not been languishing by any means. Cuervo is the most popular tequila in the world, with global sales of more than five million cases a year, and it is also one of the best-selling liquors in the United States.
According to the Adams Handbook Advance 2000, an industry publication, Cuervo sold 3.2 million cases in the United States last year, making it No. 5 in total sales in America after Bacardi rum (7.2 million cases), Smirnoff vodka (6.3 million), Absolut vodka (3.9 million) and Jack Daniel's Black (3.6 million cases). Cuervo's sales put it far ahead of its closest tequila competitor, Sauza, which sold about 700,000 cases.
And Cuervo is growing, too. Despite a shortage of agave, the plant from which tequila is made, sales last year increased 8.3 percent from 1998.
Still, according to Mr. Arana, that is not enough for Cuervo's owners, who include the descendants of Jose Antonio de Cuervo, who began distilling the spirit in the town of Tequila in 1795. While supplies are tight, he says there is enough agave available to fuel even more growth for Cuervo. And to change and widen its appeal.
"We want to be more than just a tequila brand," he said.
And just how do you do that?
By going to a national -- and then global -- introduction, according to Mr. Arana, who said that most Cuervo advertising was previously done at a local level.
And by being "very simple and focused on bringing forward the spirit and culture of Cuervo," said Peter Arnell, chairman and chief creative officer for AG Worldwide, part of the Draft Worldwide unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, the agency handling the campaign, which will have billings of $10 million for its rollout in the United States.
AG Worldwide won the account earlier this year in a competition that included Bartle Bogle Hegarty in London, which is 49 percent owned by the B Com3 Group; J. Walter Thompson in New York, which is part of the WPP Group; and the Leo Burnett Company, Chicago, part of B Com3 . Its approach, which will be replicated abroad in ads that will run over the next couple of years in other big tequila markets like Greece, Brazil, Britain and Spain, is to be "more sophisticated and more contemporary," Mr. Arnell said.
"We are making it less young," he added, "and going after the 25 and older market. And we are upscaling it."
The ads -- for which Mr. Arnell himself did the photography -- feature short, snappy copy alongside pictures of stylish young men and women in their 20's who, despite their model good looks, are supposed to be "normal, approachable real people," Mr. Arnell said. A picture of Cuervo Especial -- known universally to consumers as Cuervo Gold -- is also shown, together with the "Vive Cuervo" slogan. The core ads include one that carries the tag line "All work and no play is totally missing the point," uttered by a casually dressed blonde woman with a wide, toothy grin; another, featuring six apparently delirious men and women, declares "Carpe Cuervo!"
Mr. Arnell concedes that the tequila category "skews male." Still, the placement of attractive women in the ads is meant not only to draw men's eyes but also to help Cuervo widen its appeal. Where the ads run also reflects the diversity of the audience that Cuervo wants to reach. The ads, primarily in print for now, will begin running next month not only in magazines like Playboy and Maxim but also in Cosmopolitan, Entertainment Weekly and People. There are also ads focused on the gay market, like one with three men, arms around each other's shoulders, that declares "We're here, we're Cuervo." That one will appear in Out magazine within a few months, Mr. Arnell said.
All of which makes a lot of sense, said Michael Bellas, chairman and chief executive of the Beverage Marketing Corporation, a research company based in New York.
"Everyone is doing this," he said. "In this economy, everybody is trying to move themselves to a premium position, to a sophisticated, co-ed social look." That is especially important in the case of tequila, he said, because its price -- now generally $15 to $20 a bottle -- will probably be going up because of the agave shortage, if it already hasn't.
Besides, tequila now accounts for "as much as 20 percent of the sales gain" in the liquor industry, he said. To continue that kind of increase, the product has to be seen as more than it was in the past.
"Today, you want something that is sophisticated, approachable and fun," Mr. Bellas said. "If you've got it, then the future is quite positive."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Print ads for Jose Cuervo will feature a series of stylish, young models with the slogan "Vive Cuervo." The core ads include one that carries the tag line "All work and no play is totally missing the point." (AG Worldwide)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (84%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); DGE (PAR) (83%); DGE (LSE) (83%); DEO (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (83%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (83%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (83%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: CUERVO, JOSE, INTERNATIONAL INC; AG WORLDWIDE PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); DIAGEO PLC (83%); JWT (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: CUERVO, JOSE, INTERNATIONAL INC; AG WORLDWIDE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ADVERTISING; TEQUILA BRANDING (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); DISTILLERIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: STAMLER, BERNARD; ARANA, CARLOS PETER ARNELL (76%); CARLOS ARANA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



333 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan
EUROPE
RUSSIA: ECONOMY BRIGHTENS -- A healthier economy, lucrative oil exports and more effective tax collection increased government revenues for the first half of 2000 to their highest level since the collapse of the Soviet Union, Prime Minister Mikhail M. Kasyanov said. The government said it took in $18.3 billion, nearly two-thirds of its anticipated revenue for the entire year, and predicted a further increase in the second half. Michael Wines (NYT)
 
GERMANY: RIGHTISTS BANNED -- The government banned the far-right group Blood and Honor for spreading neo-Nazi propaganda and breaching the Constitution. Its so-called White Youth wing was also outlawed. "Germany is the first nation to fight this organization this way," Interior Minister Otto Schily said. The group, which was founded in Britain and spread to Germany in 1994, has ties to the larger far-right German National Democratic Party. Victor Homola (NYT)

 BODY:

ITALY: CARDINAL CALLED RACIST -- A leading cardinal has set off a political furor by suggesting that Italy favor Roman Catholic immigrants over Muslims to "preserve the identity of the nation." Many center-left government ministers condemned Cardinal Giacomo Biffi's pastoral letter to his Bologna archdiocese as dangerous and racist. But some center-right politicians agreed with his proposal and the opposition leader Silvio Berlusconi said the cardinal's ideas "were deemed worthy of attention." Elisabetta Povoledo (NYT)
 
MACEDONIA: NATO SUED OVER BEES -- Honey producers have demanded compensation from NATO, saying its bombing campaign against Yugoslavia subjected their bees to "a terrible stress" that reduced production to 70 percent less than usual. Mendi Trajkovski, secretary of the Nectar Association of 103 producers, said a claim for $222,300 in damages had been filed with a special NATO commission. (Reuters)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
CANADA: TORY CHIEF QUITS -- In the latest blow to Canada's shrinking Tory party, the party president resigned, only two days after two Tory members of Parliament defected to the Liberals. Peter Van Loan, a Toronto lawyer was an effective fund-raiser, and his loss will hurt the heavily indebted party.
 James Brooke (NYT)
 
MEXICO: CHARGED IN MURDERS -- The accused leader of one of Mexico's most powerful drug cartels was charged in a United States federal indictment in El Paso, Tex., with 10 counts of murder, including the killings of seven people whose bodies were found last fall on ranches near Juarez. Justice Department officials believe Vicente Carillo Fuentes, who is a fugitive, ordered the murders to silence those who might have given information to law enforcement agents. Ginger Thompson (NYT)
 
EL SALVADOR: DENGUE FEVER ALERT Public health authorities appealed for international aid after President Francisco Flores declared a national emergency over an outbreak of dengue fever. Since January, 24 people, mostly children, have died and nearly 2,100 cases of dengue have been reported. The United States Agency for International Development has already provided $25,000 for medical supplies. But Jose Lopez Beltran, the minister of public health , said more aid may be needed since the outbreak has not yet peaked. David Gonzalez (NYT)
 
ASIA
 
SRI LANKA: EMERGENCY EXTENDED -- Parliament, reconvened for a special session, approved the renewal of a nationwide state of emergency that gives wide powers to security forces battling separatist minority rebels. Parliamentary officials said the measure was approved by a majority of 96 votes after most opposition lawmakers staged a routine walkout. (Reuters)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
ISRAEL: MISSILE SYSTEM TESTED -- Israel's Arrow II antiballistic missile system was successfully tested, intercepting a simulated missile similar to the Scuds fired at Israel in the gulf war in 1991, the Defense Ministry said. It was the seventh of eight tests that proved successful for the system, which is heavily financed by the United States. Deborah Sontag (NYT)
 
AFRICA
 
ZIMBABWE: POLICE RAID OPPOSITION -- The opposition Movement for Democratic Change said four party officials were detained after its offices were raided by police officers who said they were conducting an investigation into a grenade blast this week outside the party's headquarters. No one was hurt in the explosion, and the officers and intelligence agents arrived at the offices with warrants allowing them to search for firearms and explosives. They apparently found none.Henri E. Cauvin (NYT)
 
SUDAN: 4,435 SLAVES BOUGHT -- A Swiss aid group said it bought the freedom of 4,435 slaves in southern Sudan this month, bringing the total freed to 38,000. Christian Solidarity International has been criticized by the United Nations and rights groups, who say buying slaves encourages captors to seize more people. The group said it paid $33 for each slave. Elizabeth Olson (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ITALY (94%); ISRAEL (93%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: EL PASO, TX, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (75%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (94%); ISRAEL (93%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES RELIGION (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); MURDER (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); DENGUE FEVER (85%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (85%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); BOMBINGS (75%); DAMAGES (75%); APICULTURE (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); CARTELS (70%); INDICTMENTS (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); FUNDRAISING (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (62%); DESERT STORM (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



334 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: The Euro Experiment: A Bold Idea That Isn't Working

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
THE euro is a grand experiment, a paper currency without a government. And that lack is one reason the euro has sunk far below any reasonable level.
Early this week, Romano Prodi, the president of the European Commission and, as such, the closest thing Europe has to a president, called for intervention in the foreign exchange markets to support the euro. The markets yawned. Traders know that Mr. Prodi has little power. 
 Nor does anyone else. Europe has a central bank, but the euro has 11 national governments. None of them can set policy for the area as a whole, and each of them can disclaim responsibility for what happens to the currency.
When the euro was being planned, advocates expected the currency to be strong. No longer would an Italy, say, be able to just let its currency weaken. To stay competitive, it and the other governments would have to adopt structural reforms. Rigid labor markets and high-cost government pension plans would inevitably wither away.
Just the opposite seems to be happening. Taxes are being cut, but other reforms are coming slowly, if at all. The currency markets can no longer cast a vote on any one government's policies, so the easy way out is not directly punished, and the hard way is not going to be directly rewarded. It should come as no surprise that governments under pressure tend to choose the easy way, as France did to buy off protesters who wanted lower fuel taxes.
One way to fight a falling currency is to intervene in the currency markets. That can be a good tactic when, as now, currency values are clearly out of line. But for intervention to work, it should be large, internationally supported, backed by a government making credible policy changes and seen as likely to continue if necessary. Yesterday's European Central Bank announcement that it was buying $2.2 billion worth of euros fails on all counts. Page C3.
Raising interest rates is another method to support a currency, and one that poor Wim Duisenberg, the president of the European Central Bank, has tried. Unfortunately, it is equity capital flows that now dominate the global investment scene, not bonds. Europe needs to find a way to persuade investors to buy stocks and businesses. Higher interest rates would slow the economy without helping the euro.
Mr. Duisenberg never expected anything like the current situation, in which the United States can run an unprecedented current account deficit -- now at 4.3 percent of gross domestic product, or more than $1 billion a day -- while the dollar rises. "In the long run, such a deficit is unsustainable," he told a European parliamentary hearing. But for now, he added, "the Americans have no difficulty in having that deficit financed, basically by us, Europe."
That current account deficit is being exacerbated by high oil prices, which may yet slow the entire Western world and make American investments look less attractive. Eventually, Mr. Duisenberg will be proved right. The dollar is overvalued, and will decline. Someday.
But the euro may not have that much time to wait. Already the euro disarray is damaging hopes that Denmark will vote to join the currency union. Such a vote would damage the euro even further, and strengthen British opposition. In that environment, a European recession might stir nostalgia for good old marks and francs. But Europe's rules bar any country from abandoning the euro.
A strong government for the euro region could fight those trends. But this currency has 11 governments, which for some purposes is the same as having none.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro in dollars since 1999.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EURO (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); TRENDS (76%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); FUEL TAX (72%); TAX LAW (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (67%); INTEREST RATES (61%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD ROMANO PRODI (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



335 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: 2 Economists Give Far Higher Cost of Gun Violence

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

 BODY:
Gun violence costs Americans $100 billion a year, according to a new book by two economists that is the first effort to make a comprehensive estimate of the price the nation pays for criminal shootings, gun accidents and suicides committed with guns.
In arriving at that figure, the authors, Philip J. Cook of Duke University and Jens Ludwig of Georgetown University, departed from earlier approaches that looked only at costs like the medical expense of treating gunshot wounds and the lost productivity of gunshot victims. Those are only a small part of the real total, the authors say. 
 The much larger price, they say, involves "the devastating emotional costs experienced by relatives and friends of gunshot victims, and the fear and general reduction in quality of life that the threat of gun violence imposes on everyone in America, including people who are not victimized." These include all manner of costs, from the time lost waiting in line at airports to pass through metal detectors, to the difference between actual property values in violent neighborhoods and what those values would be if there was no gun violence.
In their book, "Gun Violence: The Real Costs," to be published next month by Oxford University Press, Professors Cook and Ludwig applied a method widely accepted by economists as a way of determining hard-to-measure intangible costs. This method, known as contingent valuation, asks people how much they would pay to avoid a problem.
In a nationally representative telephone survey, 1,200 people were asked how much they would pay per year to reduce criminal gunshot injuries. The authors applied the results to the nation's entire population to reach a figure of $80 billion.
As for accidental shootings and gun suicides, the authors drew on previous studies of losses in the workplace and on jury awards to determine the statistical value of life and the costs of nonfatal injuries. That sum came to $20 billion.
The total, then, for criminal shootings (including murders), accidental shootings and gun suicides is $100 billion, the authors said.
Their calculation was applauded by a number of economists, criminologists and gun control advocates, who said it showed that the cost was much larger than previously realized and therefore should be given greater weight in debates over public policy.
"One might quibble with the figure, since the question of how much people would pay to avoid gun violence is hard to know," said Alfred Blumstein, a criminologist at Carnegie Mellon University, "but it is very helpful to have two skilled economists try to figure out how large the cost of gun violence really is."
Tom Diaz, a senior policy analyst with the anti-handgun Violence Policy Center in Washington, said, "The gun industry offloads tremendous costs onto people who don't use its products, like a polluter dumping on a city, so it's good to force people to realize what these costs are."
But the study was criticized by scholars who maintain that guns contribute to public safety, and by gun industry officials, as being too hypothetical and ignoring firearms' benefits.
Gary Kleck, a professor of criminology and criminal justice at Florida State University, who is well known among gun enthusiasts for his estimate that guns are used 2.5 million times a year in self-defense in the United States, said the new study was "too hypothetical and too reliant on subjective judgments."
"It is also a hopeless task," Professor Kleck said. "You are faced with an unknowable problem: What is human life worth?"
Robert Delfay, president of the National Shooting Sports Foundation, trade association for gun makers, said the authors had failed to count guns' benefits, like their use by the police to stop crime or by civilians in self-defense. The book, Mr. Delfay said, "is misleading, like looking at the costs of auto accidents without measuring the benefits of cars." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: GUN VIOLENCE: THE REAL COSTS (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (68%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (58%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (58%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (58%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (58%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FIREARMS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE FIREARMS (92%); SHOOTINGS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); WRITERS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SUICIDE (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); LITERATURE (78%); MURDER (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GUN CONTROL (74%); METAL DETECTORS (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX; COOK, PHILIP J; LUDWIG, JENS ROBERT DELFAY (64%); GARY KLECK (64%); JENS LUDWIG (64%); PHILIP J COOK (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



336 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Modest Purchases by Central Bank Briefly Lift the Euro

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Sept. 14

 BODY:
The European Central Bank took a limited step today toward intervening in world markets on behalf of the downtrodden euro, using money from its foreign reserves to buy $2.16 billion worth of euros and briefly halting the currency's tailspin against the dollar.
Wim Duisenberg, the European bank's president, insisted that the move was little more than a routine portfolio adjustment and that "intervening in the market was not part of the motive." But currency analysts said the bank was indeed hoping to prop up the euro's exchange rate, or at least prevent its falling further. 
 Even so, the central bank seems increasingly powerless to reverse the euro's decline. Since it was introduced in January 1999, the currency has lost more than one-quarter of its value against the dollar, falling from $1.17 initially to settle in New York today at 86.41 cents, up from 86.01 late Wednesday. Shortly after today's announcement, it traded in Europe around 87 cents.
Central bankers and political leaders have tried to talk up the euro's value, arguing at every opportunity that its low exchange rate does not reflect the fundamental economic health of Western Europe. The central bank has also raised interest rates six times in the last year, though with little effect.
Intervention in the markets, by selling dollars and buying euros, is one of the few tools that has not been employed on a full scale. But generally, central bankers view intervention as futile, given that trillions of dollars flow across borders every day. The chances of success are seen as particularly low because neither the United States nor Japan has shown much appetite for joining in an intervention.
Indeed, some analysts now predict that the euro will slip further in the weeks ahead. Jesper Dannesboe, chief foreign exchange strategist at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, went so far as to warn of the risk of a "panic sell-off" because many investment funds are holding euros they bought at prices well above today's level. He predicts that the euro will slip as low as 80 cents to the dollar by early 2001.
The euro's decline does have some positive effects: it has helped European exporters by rendering their products more affordable overseas. It is also making Europe look cheaper than it has in years to American tourists, who are coming here in great numbers and buying local products to take home with them. But on the negative side, it has intensified the effects of the worldwide rise in crude oil prices, as oil is priced in dollars on world commodities markets. And it is pushing up the costs of other imports, too.
In its move to buy euros today, the central bank said it had simply decided to sell the interest it had accumulated on its foreign reserves since it went into operation at the start of 1999. In itself, that shift of 2.5 billion euros is not sufficient to have a lasting effect on currency markets. More aggressive steps are needed, some European economists say, maintaining that the bank should be selling some of the reserves themselves, not just the interest on them.
The problem confronting the European Central Bank is that foreign investors are pouring tens of billions of dollars into American investments. Much of that is through mergers and acquisitions, with companies like Deutsche Telekom and Bertelsmann eager to buy American companies or parts of them. In addition, analysts say that many investment fund managers accumulated euros on the conviction that the currency was overdue for a big climb back. But since that has not happened, those fund managers are now under increasing pressure to sell their euros at the first opportunity.
Despite Mr. Duisenberg's insistence that the central bank was not intervening in markets, many traders were convinced that it did want to send the markets a signal. For one thing, it was the first time that the bank had sold money it earned from foreign investments. Beyond that, the bank took the somewhat unusual step of announcing the move in a written statement.
At a news conference today after a meeting of the central bank's governing council, Mr. Duisenberg insisted that the move was not an "intervention" but said that he was "not disappointed" when the euro climbed briefly in response.
Once heavily criticized for suggesting that he practiced "benign neglect" of the euro's exchange rate, Mr. Duisenberg went out of his way to declare his unhappiness about the currency's value and his conviction that it would eventually bounce back.
He noted that economic growth in the euro zone is running well above 3 percent this year, that business confidence is at record levels and that inflation in the European region is among the lowest in the world.
"The fact that the euro has continue to depreciate over recent months is not in line with these economic fundamentals," Mr. Duisenberg said. "Our concerns on this issue remain serious and we shall monitor developments closely." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (81%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (81%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (81%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (81%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY EURO (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); TRENDS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; DUISENBERG, WIM WIM DUISENBERG (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



337 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: Nike's Profit Increases 10%, Beating Wall St. Forecasts

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: BEAVERTON, Ore., Sept. 14

 BODY:
Nike Inc. said today that its first-quarter profit rose 10 percent, beating Wall Street forecasts.
The company, based in Beaverton, posted net income of $210 million, or 77 cents a share, for the three months ended Aug. 31, compared with $200 million, or 70 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. 
 Revenue rose 5 percent, to $2.6 billion from $2.5 billion a year earlier.
Analysts had expected Nike to post earnings of 74 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial.
Before the company announced the results, its shares closed at $38.50, down 12.5 cents.
"We're off to a good start for the fiscal year with accelerating revenue growth and increasing profitability," said Philip H. Knight, Nike's chairman and chief executive. "I'm particularly pleased by the strength of our international businesses, which generated double-digit revenue growth, despite significant currency weakness in Europe."
He said the weakness in the euro put pressure on Nike's profitability, although it was able to meet its goals.
Nike's closely watched worldwide "futures" -- orders for goods to be delivered over the next five months -- totaled $3.1 billion, equal to the year-earlier level. Nike said that had the dollar remained constant, futures orders would have increased 4 percent.
United States revenue rose 2 percent, to $1.4 billion, compared with $1.3 billion in the period a year earlier. Athletic footwear revenue fell 1 percent, to $935 million. Apparel revenue fell 2 percent, to $326 million. Equipment revenue rose 55 percent, to $91 million. Quarterly revenue for the European region rose 6 percent, to $776 million. Footwear revenue rose 10 percent and apparel revenue rose 1 percent.
Revenue in the Asia-Pacific region grew 26 percent, to $241 million. In constant dollars, regional revenue rose 20 percent. Revenue in the Americas region rose 15 percent, to $150 million. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (98%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (98%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (98%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (98%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); ASIA (75%); UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NIKE INC NIKE INC (98%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: NIKE INC

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); ASIA (75%); UNITED STATES (73%); OREGON, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); US DOLLAR (75%); CURRENCIES (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); FOOTWEAR (64%); EXECUTIVES (54%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (53%); 

PERSON: PHILIP H 'PHIL' KNIGHT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



338 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2391 words

HEADLINE: A Dwindling Faith In Deregulation;
New Ways to Harness Electricity

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
Over a few sultry days in the summer of 1997, the state of Wisconsin got an early taste of the electricity shortages that now threaten several other regions of the country. An unusually large number of nuclear plants that supply the northern Midwest were closed for maintenance just as an unexpected heat wave drifted into the area. Wisconsin Electric, which serves Milwaukee, shut off electricity to 80 businesses; every few hours, it beseeched consumers to limit their energy use.
Wisconsin Electric averted blackouts, but the scare profoundly changed the state's approach to deregulating the power industry, a process it had begun to explore only a year earlier. Like many other utilities, Wisconsin Electric initially pushed for what it and others called the Big Bang: state regulators giving up control over the production and pricing of electricity almost immediately. 
 But after the 1997 power shortage, Wisconsin Electric, along with most local businesses and consumer advocacy groups, began to support a go-slow approach to deregulation, first building in an extra margin of reliable power before encouraging the state to remove its decades-old grip on the electricity industry.
Lately, the rest of the country has been drawing the same conclusion. Just like Wisconsin, several other states have lost their early faith in the instantaneous, smooth creation of a free and fair electricity market. Deregulation has faltered as surging consumer demand outstrips the supply of electricity, and regulators and utilities scramble to cope with successive summers of price volatility and power failures.
More than a year ago, the wholesale price of electricity charged by power plants in the Midwest surged to $6,000 a megawatt-hour, compared with average costs of $21 to $22 for the same amount of power. Con Ed customers in New York paid 43 percent more for electricity this June than last year. Prices have spiked elsewhere as well.
And when rolling blackouts rippled through Silicon Valley and electricity bills doubled in San Diego over several weeks this summer, California's pioneering approach to deregulation came to embody what many see as the failings of the process.
Despite the second thoughts about deregulation, few experts expect a return to the days of strict government control. A world in which various power generators compete openly to provide electricity at market prices still offers the prospect of both lower costs for business and consumers and higher profits for utilities than is possible under the traditional, more inefficient system in which monopoly suppliers are supervised by government regulators.
"California is an indication to the rest of us that we need to do our homework to make deregulation work," said Dick Olson, legal counsel with the Wisconsin Industrial Energy Group, an association of large companies. "Some people want to stop the process, but the genie is out of the bottle."
But getting from here to there is proving far more difficult than expected. Lacking a clear federal approach, states are finding their own way and, in the process, casting doubt on some early promises.
"Deregulation was definitely oversold to consumers by many people," said Severin Borenstein, director of the Energy Institute at the University of California at Berkeley. "To economists and a few others, deregulation was a calculated experiment, and we knew it would have its costs."
Historically, a regional electric utility, which was owned by investors and regulated by the state, generated power, transmitted it over high-voltage lines and then distributed it in low-voltage form into homes and businesses. In broad terms, deregulation calls for separating generation, transmission and distribution into distinct businesses.
Deregulation advocates argued that if power plants were sold to private owners, they would compete among themselves to sell power to transmission and distribution companies at cheaper prices, driving down the cost of electricity. But that outcome was predicated on the realities of the mid-1990's, when power plants had spare capacity.
But with few power plants coming on line recently, particularly in California and the Northeast, deregulation was introduced in the late 1990's at the worst possible time. In the thriving economy, businesses demanded more electricity, and people built bigger homes and bought more gadgets, sharply narrowing the gap between available supplies of electricity and peak demand. Fuel for generation has also become more expensive, especially natural gas, whose price has doubled even as it has grown increasingly popular because it is cleaner than other fuels.
"I think that the expectation that deregulation will always give you lower prices is unrealistic," said John B. Ramil, president of the Tampa Electric Company, a unit of TECO Energy Inc. "Consumers think that competition will lead to lower prices automatically, when actually they will be paying market prices for power."
Advocates rallied support for electricity deregulation by asserting that it would deliver the choice and the low prices that deregulation of telecommunications has brought. But they forgot that the restructuring of the telephone industry, like power deregulation now, angered consumers early on, when local calling rates rose and the proliferation of choices baffled many people. Lawmakers and regulators took years to iron out the process, which is still going on. And because electricity is even more vital than telephones, there is far less tolerance for interruptions in service and volatile prices.
"You can't assume that you can deregulate in one year and sit back and watch how things work," said Barry Abramson, senior utility analyst with PaineWebber. "Regulators and utility officials have to come back frequently and correct problems they never expected until the system gets it right."
 
Seeing an Example In Pennsylvania
So far, 24 states have tried some form of deregulation, but regulators and utilities in other regions say changes in their local electricity industry are inevitable, too.
Among states where deregulation has occurred, Pennsylvania has emerged so far as the place where the promises of competition and lower prices are being met most successfully. The state began to draw up a deregulation blueprint in 1996, around the same time California did, driven by electric rates in Philadelphia and other major cities double the average in the United States.
But Pennsylvania opted for a plan that calls for substantial government involvement in the market at every step. The state protected the utilities against losses from their older plants; in return utilities had to agree to freeze rates until 2006 at 1997 levels to protect consumers.
The state aggressively advertised a choice of new electricity providers. More important, it set the benchmark generation rates for traditional utilities at a fairly high level, which made some outside competitors' prices look favorable in comparison and which spurred consumers to choose new power providers.
As a result, more than 528,000 residential and business users, about 10 percent of the total, have switched to other providers that sell them power at a fixed price over long periods. A recent study by the State of Pennsylvania estimated that consumers have saved about $2.84 billion in energy costs over the last three years.
As consumers sought new power providers, those same companies began to build new plants in and near Pennsylvania, shoring up electricity reliability in the area. About 19,000 megawatts of power, adding 50 percent more capacity, are expected to come on line in Pennsylvania in the next five years.
Pennsylvania also cobbled together the independent system operator PJM from a network of neighboring states that could transmit power easily to one another, creating a grid third in size behind the entire transmission systems of France and of Japan.
 
Trying Rate Caps In California
Yet the lurching progress of deregulation in the country as a whole and the loss of old certainties like reliable power at steady prices have ignited a popular backlash in many areas, most vividly in California. There, the state has decided to cap rates in San Diego at 1999 levels for the next two years. Other Californians have urged a rollback of deregulation, demanding that power plants sold to private owners be placed under government control again.
The widespread short supply of electricity and the peculiarities of the commodity itself have given generation companies enormous leverage in the marketplace. Unlike most other goods, electricity cannot be stored to be used when there is a shortage. Nor is it something consumers can do without, which means the companies that supply people with electricity will pay just about any price to keep the lights on.
Most analysts say that the exercise of such influence is not illegal -- nor unexpected -- since companies can be expected to try to maximize their profits. But California's complex power buying mechanism has created a situation in which relatively small players have extraordinary influence.
On June 14, for example, the temperature in San Francisco hit 103 degrees and heat records were broken all over the Bay Area. The state's Independent System Operator, which coordinates transmission of electricity, predicted that during peak use on that weekday afternoon, California would need 43,000 megawatts. But reports from the power plants working that day showed only 36,000 megawatts available. As a result, the California I.S.O. paid $1,500 a megawatt to various plants that were not running; some of those plants had bet on a shortage and delayed generation until the price of power reached the cap.
"The world knows we'll make up that energy shortfall somewhere," said Spence Gerber, director of settlements at the I.S.O. "People go in and make their bids knowing we're not going to shut the lights off. We have no choice."
In California, rate freezes have prevented most utilities from passing on much of the higher price of power to consumers. In San Diego, however, the rate freezes were lifted just as the city strained under a heat wave. That led to the doubling of customers' bills in the span of a month.
One part of any long-term solution, experts say, is to increase the supply of electricity, through building new power plants and transmission lines. But few communities want power plants or transmission towers on their turf, adding to delays.
So far, states have relied on caps on the wholesale price of power to keep costs down. In California, the price cap, until recently, was $750 a megawatt, and in Pennsylvania, it is $1,000. But California officials concede that power plants sometimes get $1,500 a megawatt-hour -- $750 for being on standby and $750 for the power itself.
Caps, if set too low, may dissuade companies from producing electricity and from building new power plants. "If you fix caps at $250, you have to realize that if in a neighboring state someone is offering $251 for power, you will have a serious shortage," said Richard Priory, chairman of Duke Energy, a nationwide power generation and trading company.
Given the complexities, deregulation, with its connotation of a laissez-faire management of an industry, seems a misnomer. The focus is now on reorganizing the electricity industry, rather than cutting it loose, and of using sophisticated forms of regulation to foster competition and efficiency.
"What we're looking at is re-regulation, regulation in a different manner than we had before," said Douglas Hale, senior economist with the Energy Information Administration in Washington. "Electricity is not one of those commodities that you can walk away from and let take care of itself. You need a central authority to make sure it doesn't all come crashing down."
In Wisconsin, rather than having the legislature adopt an overall plan, the central state authority has moved to revamp the transmission sector before tackling generation, the reverse of what most other states have done. The Midwest price spikes in 1998 revealed that while neighboring states were willing to provide power, there were not enough transmission lines in Wisconsin to bring it in. As a result, the Wisconsin government has compelled the state's four major utilities to surrender operation of their transmission lines to the Midwest Independent System Operator, which covers several states, to make sure all companies have equal access to power lines.
"The problem with the big bang in an industry like ours is that you take a large risk," said Larry Salustro, senior vice president of Wisconsin Electric. "Maybe in three years, the market will be better. But in those three years, people will go through difficult personal and financial times."
The transmission company will be responsible for building new lines to improve the importing of power, and though they own shares in the concern, no single utility controls it. Wisconsin plans to double transmission capacity in the next four or five years, by which time the state would be ready to deregulate generation.
"You won't have low prices unless you create an effective market structure," said Lee Cullen, counsel for Customers First, a Wisconsin consumer advocacy group. "Everybody can support competition as a superior system, but we're not rushing headlong into it."
Building safeguards against the volatility deregulation brings will clearly take years, as more generation -- mostly in small natural-gas-fired power plants -- starts up, as more power lines are built to move electricity to where it is needed most and as business and consumers respond to higher prices by finding ways to conserve power and limit use during peak periods.
Some businesses and the occasional residential customer have set up links with their utilities to respond to electricity prices in real time, by turning down lights or allowing air- conditioning to shut down briefly when a computer message informs them of price spikes. So far, however, such operations are rare.
"Until consumers can see and respond to real-time prices, price caps will remain a necessary evil," Mr. Borenstein said. "The dirty secret of restructuring is that it is replacing old forms of regulation with new ones."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lee Cullen is a lawyer for Customers First, a Wisconsin consumer advocacy group. He stands outside the switching station and coal yard of Madison Gas and Electric in Madison, Wis. (Andy Manis for The New York Times)(pg. C4); Individual states are trying to find answers to the problem of deregulating the electricity industry. Power lines in Wisconsin, left, are symbols of a state that is trying to revamp the transmission sector. In Pennsylvania, where a power plant is being built in Lebanon, below, the government is involved with the market at every step. (John Zeedick for The New York Times); (John Saller for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 
Chart/Graph: "Shocks to The System"
In deregulated electricity markets, prices have been far more volatile than expected, at times jumping to extraordinary levels during shortages.
 
*Volume-weighted wholesale spot prices for on-peak, next-day delivery of a megawatt-hour of electricity.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Cambridge Energy Research Associates)(pg. C1)
 
"Approaching Electricity Deregulation More Cautiously"
As some states struggle with tight supplies and high prices, others are moving more slowly on deregulation.
 
Graph tracks supply and demand since 1980.
 
Map tracks Deregulation by state.
(Sources: Edison Electric Institute; North American Electric Reliability Council; Energy Information Administration)(pg. C4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (90%); EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWESTERN STATES (US); NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; WISCONSIN; CHICAGO (ILL); TEXAS; CALIFORNIA; PENNSYLVANIA; UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LEBANON (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; SHORTAGES; BLACKOUTS (ELECTRICAL) DEREGULATION (94%); POWER FAILURES (91%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); WHOLESALERS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (72%); WEATHER (72%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); LAWYERS (50%); 

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



339 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Ford Chairman Speaks Out On Tires for the First Time

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 14

 BODY:
During his first news conference since Bridgestone/Firestone announced the recall of 6.5 million tires used mainly on Ford Explorers, William C. Ford Jr., Ford Motor's chairman, today defended his decision to let the company's president, Jacques Nasser, handle all public appearances concerning the tire problems. The company also announced that it would buy back $5 billion of its stock.
Mr. Ford said it was Mr. Nasser's responsibility as the head of Ford's management team to respond to the initial recall, and once the recall became a much larger public relations and regulatory issue it would have been confusing to change. 
 Mr. Ford is the great-grandson of Henry Ford and his mother is a granddaughter of Harvey S. Firestone Sr., the tire maker's founder and a friend of Henry Ford. But Mr. Ford said today that his family relationships had not prompted him to recuse himself from the tire issue.
Indeed, he was sharply critical of Firestone, which was purchased by the Bridgestone Corporation of Japan in 1988, saying that, "It hurts to see a family name and a family heritage tarnished so badly."
Mr. Ford defended the Ford board's decision to distribute cash to shareholders in the middle of a crisis by buying back stock.
He said the move would not interfere with Ford's handling of the tire issue and represented a reward to shareholders for holding their stock.
"We believe this is very much a tire issue, not a Ford issue," he said at the news conference, which was held this afternoon after Ford's board had met to review the tire problems.
The moves by Ford came as Congressional investigators are focusing on whether Ford and Firestone chose too low a pressure for the inflation of the tires -- 26 pounds per square inch -- and whether the tires were adequately tested at that pressure before being put on Explorers.
Representative Billy Tauzin, the Louisiana Republican who is the chairman of the House Commerce Subcommittee for Consumer Protection, scheduled a hearing next Thursday morning on the companies' choice and testing of the tire pressure. Mr. Tauzin has demanded that both companies provide all of their test data to his subcommittee and the House Commerce Subcommittee for Oversight and Investigation by Friday evening.
The inquiry comes as personal injury lawyers are showing renewed interest in failures of tires made by other manufacturers, which, like Firestone until this week, have dismissed problems as resulting from customers' neglect of the tires.
C. Tab Turner, a lawyer in Little Rock, Ark., who specializes in tire failure and vehicle rollover cases and who has filed some of the many lawsuits against Ford and Firestone, said that he had seen during litigation many of the Firestone test results that Mr. Tauzin is now demanding.
The recalled tire models suffered tread separations -- the type of tire problem now blamed in dozens of fatal crashes -- in 600 to 700 of the roughly 1,000 tests that Firestone conducted over the last decade, he said. Many of the tests were designed to push the tires to their limit to determine when tread separation occurred, but the sheer number of tests shows that Firestone suspected a problem, he contended.
Firestone officials did not return calls for comment today but have said repeatedly that the tire maker's safety staff only became aware of a problem at the beginning of August, just before the recall was announced on Aug. 9. But the company's financial records show that the company's accountants had identified a problem at least by 1998.
Michael Vaughn, a Ford spokesman, said that the company had tested the tires at 26 pounds per square inch by driving Explorers with the tires at 100 miles per hour for a distance of 200 miles on a test track in Arizona in 1989. No problems were detected, he said.
Ford proceeded with the buyback today despite concerns raised even by some Wall Street analysts that returning money to shareholders now might be viewed as insensitive given the nearly 100 deaths linked to the failure of Firestone tires.
Henry D. G. Wallace, Ford's chief financial officer, said that the stock buyback represented a continuation of the company's plan, announced last April, to distribute to shareholders $10 billion of the automaker's cash reserves. The company set up a plan in April to give stockholders a choice of cash or additional shares, but so many chose the shares that the company ended up distributing only $5.3 billion of the planned $10 billion.
Mr. Tauzin declined to comment on the buyback. Joan Claybrook, the president of Public Citizen, a consumer advocacy group, said that she was not concerned as long as the buyback did not affect the recall.
Financial analysts applauded Ford's move even while noting the awkward timing. "You can be a little surprised they did it in the face of the tire fiasco," said Ron Tadross, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston. "The tire issue is a completely separate issue and this doesn't restrict at all Ford's ability to deal with the recall."
Ford shares rose 69 cents, to $25.94.
Mr. Wallace said that Ford had $20 billion in cash now, so disbursing $5 billion would have no effect on the company's financial soundness or ability to handle the recall.
Mr. Ford, who took control of the company back from professional managers when he became chairman at the beginning of last year, also said that the tire issue would not prevent him from trying to position Ford as the auto industry's leader in safety and environmental issues.
"It's not a flavor of the month, it's a flavor of a lifetime, it's a flavor of a career," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 5108 (TSE) (98%); FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (98%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (98%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO; BRIDGESTONE TIRE & RUBBER CO; FIRESTONE TIRE & RUBBER CO BRIDGESTONE CORP (98%); FORD MOTOR CO (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; BRIDGESTONE TIRE & RUBBER CO; FIRESTONE TIRE & RUBBER CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: TIRES; RECALLS AND BANS OF PRODUCTS; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; AUTOMOBILE SAFETY FEATURES AND DEFECTS; FINANCES TIRES (91%); TIRE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); PRODUCT RECALLS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); LITIGATION (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (63%); LAWYERS (62%); PERSONAL INJURY (60%); 

PERSON: FORD, WILLIAM CLAY JR; NASSER, JACQUES; BRADSHER, KEITH HENRY FORD II (94%); DAVID FORD (93%); WILLIAM LACY CLAY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



340 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: For Wen Ho Lee, a Tarnished Freedom

BYLINE: By Gish Jen; Gish Jen is the author, most recently, of "Who's Irish?"

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
Is this America? To think of Wen Ho Lee in his nine months of solitary confinement is to think not of Horatio Alger, but of Kafka. Has the American dream turned into the American nightmare? We are treated today to the pictures of Wen Ho Lee free to go fishing but are haunted by our private visions of him shackled and alone.
Whether or not it can be proved he was a victim of racial profiling, Mr. Lee's case dramatizes what many Americans believe to be true: There is opportunity here, but justice? Equality before the law? No, not for the model minority, it appears. 
 We cannot know if Wen Ho Lee was singled out because of his race. But the experience of many Asian-Americans, myself included, is such that we would be more surprised to discover that he had not than to learn that he had. We know too well the associative nature of the mainstream imagination, which manages to link Asian-Americans of any type to whatever Asian phenomenon might be momentarily tweaking its poor gray noodle.
This is sometimes funny. I once shared a stage with a former senator who was so moved by his own account of the bravery of Japanese-American soldiers in World War II that he turned from his lectern and looked, dramatically, repeatedly, straight at me every time he said "Japanese." And what a moment for history it would have been if only I had been Japanese or Japanese-American.
Other examples are not funny: In 1982, Vincent Chin, a Chinese-American, was murdered in Detroit by unemployed autoworkers incensed by Japanese competition. Wen Ho Lee was assumed sympathetic to the People's Republic of China even though he was born and brought up in Taiwan, an island not known for its adoration of Beijing.
China is the new bogeyman. That's bad news for us Chinese-Americans, but it is also bad news for Korean-Americans, Vietnamese-Americans and Japanese-Americans. How is it, though, that we all rise and fall with the tide of countries we may never have seen? We are sick of being seen as not quite American, of being viewed, generation after generation, as guests to be welcomed -- or not.
The association of a Taiwan-born American citizen with mainland espionage efforts might seem to be what the legal scholar Jody Armour would call "reasonable racism" -- but it is not reasonable, and causes real hardship.
Since the Wen Ho Lee case began, the number of Asian and Asian-American scientists applying to work in our nation's weapons labs has declined dramatically. Many would-be applicants have expressed fears of harassment and discrimination. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission is now investigating the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in response to claims of discrimination by nine employees; the agency is also investigating Los Alamos.
Everyone can see this is unfortunate for United States defense research. But less appreciated is the bitterness in the hearts of the scientists involved, or of the many others seeking work elsewhere. These were, by and large, people who believed in America -- people who hoped to believe in it, and who deserved to believe in it.
Today Wen Ho Lee is free, and Asian-American advocacy groups are flexing new muscle. In apologizing to Mr. Lee, Judge James Parker displayed a courageous, refreshing, most American candor that would be unthinkable in other parts of the world. The system ultimately worked.
Still this case gives us reason to raise the hue and cry. A thorough investigation is certainly in order. Maybe the question is: Who could most objectively mount such an investigation? As a friend suggested to me, perhaps in cases like this the Justice Department should set up a citizen review board similar to those that oversee police departments in some cities. This would be a good first step toward restoring public confidence in our judicial system.
But how to restore faith in the American dream? That will take investigations of a wider, deeper sort. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%); TAIWAN (93%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%); TAIWAN (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PLEA BARGAINING; ESPIONAGE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MINORITIES (US); DISCRIMINATION; ASIAN-AMERICANS; CHINESE-AMERICANS ASIAN AMERICANS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); RACIAL PROFILING (71%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (70%); WORLD WAR II (65%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (63%); SCIENCE NEWS (62%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (62%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (61%); EMPLOYMENT (60%); ESPIONAGE (60%); 

PERSON: JEN, GISH; LEE, WEN HO (DR) WEN HO LEE (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



341 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: A Threat to Judicial Ethics

 BODY:
At a moment when the federal judiciary needs to tighten its ethical prohibitions on accepting money or gifts from private interests bent on influencing judicial thinking, Chief Justice William Rehnquist has been quietly collaborating with Senate Republicans to move in the opposite direction. With Justice Rehnquist's approval, Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, tucked a provision into a spending bill in July that would lift the 11-year-old ban on judges' collecting honorariums for appearances. The ban was imposed in 1989 to protect the integrity and impartiality of the judicial system against outside influence.
It is not surprising that Mr. McConnell, the leading opponent of reforming the nation's corrupt campaign financing system, would be blind to the dangers of widening the opportunities for monied interests to buy favor with judges. But Chief Justice Rehnquist should know better than to endorse Mr. McConnell's scheme to weaken judicial ethics radically. The fact that in today's boisterous economy first-year legal associates in top law firms can make as much as a federal judge is no excuse to return to corruptive salary supplements from private interests. Nor is the failure of Congress to meet its commitment to adjust judicial salaries annually for inflation. 
 Indeed, as Abner Mikva, the former White House counsel and federal appellate judge, noted in a recent Op-Ed piece in The Times, the fairness and impartiality of the federal judiciary are already being seriously undermined by allowing federal judges to accept free vacations at posh resorts from private interests bent on influencing their future decisions. A valuable new report from the Community Rights Counsel, an environmental group, finds that between 1992 and 1998 some 230 federal judges -- more than a quarter of the federal judiciary -- traveled to resort locations at the expense of private interests with a stake in federal litigation. Once there, they attended legal seminars making the case for curbing federal regulatory authority in favor of a free-market approach to matters like protecting the environment.
These junkets seem to be having an impact on judicial decision-making. Ten of the past decade's most significant rulings cutting back on environmental protections, according to the study, were written by judges who attended these seminars, often while the cases were pending in court.
The need for reform was underscored a week ago when a federal district judge in Manhattan, Jed Rakoff, denied a motion to recuse himself from further involvement in a lawsuit seeking damages from Texaco for harming the rain forest in Ecuador. Lawyers for the plaintiffs -- indigenous people who live in the rain forest -- filed the recusal motion upon learning of Judge Rakoff's ill-advised participation in an expenses-paid seminar on environmental issues that had been held at a Montana ranch by a foundation receiving sizable donations from Texaco. One of the lecturers was Alfred DeCrane Jr., the retired chairman and chief executive officer of Texaco, who ran the company when it operated in Ecuador. In his ruling, Judge Rakoff argued that his acceptance of the travel gift was within existing rules, a hair-splitting explanation that does not remove qualms about his judgment or impartiality.
Federal judges should have the ethical compass to resist these one-sided "educational" seminars. But in the absence of judicial self-restraint, Chief Justice Rehnquist should be leading the United States Judicial Conference, the governing body for all federal judges, to crack down on such junkets, not nudging Congress to create new avenues for influence-peddling.
If judicial pay is deemed too low, Congress needs to address that problem directly, by granting judges a salary increase paid for with public funds. Similarly, if there is a genuine need for judges to attend educational seminars, Congress ought to provide public funds for that purpose, too. But the effort to lift the ban on honorariums for judges, which was brought to light yesterday by The Washington Post, should be rejected, either by Congress or by a presidential veto. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ECUADOR (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ECUADOR (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COURTS; EDITORIALS; JUDGES; HONORARIUMS; ETHICS ETHICS (93%); JUDICIAL ETHICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGAL ETHICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); JUDGES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (86%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LAWYERS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); LEGAL EDUCATION (76%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (68%); APPEALS COURTS (65%); DAMAGES (60%); 

PERSON: REHNQUIST, WILLIAM H (CHIEF JUSTICE); MCCONNELL, MITCH (SEN) MITCH MCCONNELL (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



342 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Pulls His Charts Out For a Review Of New York

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
It is one of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's favorite exercises: with laser pointer in hand and a City Hall chamber packed with reporters and top aides, twice a year he runs through dozens of charts that he says illustrate how New York City is in better shape than it has been in decades.
Yet again, there was much to boast about yesterday, with the mayor proudly pointing to continued declines in everything from crime to welfare rolls to new cases of AIDS and lead poisoning, while emphasizing increases in employment, tourism and recycling. 
 But within the more than 800-page report card known as the Mayor's Management Report, there are also hints of at least modest slipping in some important areas, including several of Mr. Giuliani's priorities.
Murders rose slightly last year. In the 2000 fiscal year that ended on June 30, city streets were a bit less clean and well maintained. Response times to 911 calls increased for crimes in progress and structure fires and for ambulances heading to life-threatening situations. The infant mortality rate climbed slightly. Overtime pay and absenteeism rose among city employees.
The mayor said he was aware of the ups and some downs, but was confident that over all, the state of the city continued to improve.
"Some of it shows dramatic improvement, some of it shows some improvement, some shows a little decline," he said. "But there is no question I think the city is doing better now than it was seven or eight years ago, and it's doing better than it was last year."
Crime statistics earned first place during the hourlong presentation yesterday, with the mayor noting that despite its status as the nation's largest city, New York last year ranked 165th in per capita crime among the 217 cities with populations exceeding 100,000. In the first six months of this year, crimes in the seven major categories fell 7.8 percent, to 87,309, continuing a pattern over at least eight years.
But when just murders are counted, the numbers are up slightly, with 671 in 1999, 38 more than in 1998, but still far below the peak of 2,245 in 1990. And response time in the last fiscal year to crimes in progress reached an average of 10.7 minutes, up 3 minutes since 1995.
The mayor expressed disappointment that absenteeism rose slightly, with the average city employee missing 11.7 days of work during the last fiscal year. Overtime jumped as well, by 16 percent to $654 million, an increase the mayor said was not all bad because part of that cost involved intensified policing.
His report offered copious evidence of the city's economic boom: 83,800 new jobs in 1999, an estimated 36.7 million tourists and $603 million in grosses at Broadway theaters.
But there were some signs of declines amid the good news. Complaints against cabdrivers -- related to rudeness, refusals to pick up passengers and other matters -- jumped 7.8 percent, to 14,102. Response time by the Buildings Department to potentially severe complaints rose to 3.5 days in the last fiscal year, up from 1.8 the year before.
The health statistics were generally positive. New AIDS cases dropped by nearly 20 percent, to 6,284 in 1999. New cases peaked in 1993 at 15,067. Reported rat bites, despite all the recent attention to rat infestation in the city, dropped to 157, down from a peak of 270 in 1991. New cases of tuberculosis and lead poisoning and the hospitalization rate for children with asthma were also down.
But there was some negative news: the number of AIDS-related deaths increased slightly to 2,028 last year from 1,978, the first rise in five years. Infant mortality rose slightly, to 6.9 per 1,000 live births in 1999, or 848 deaths of infants younger than a year old. The figure was 6.8 in 1998.
At many points during his presentation, the mayor jabbed at his critics and repeated some of his favorite ideological lines, saying, for example, that with welfare rolls down and employment up, "there is no better social program than a job." In trying to explain why attendance at Yankees games in the Bronx ranked behind that of two other American League teams, the Baltimore Orioles and the Cleveland Indians, he had an answer residents in those cities would be sure to appreciate.
"Maybe they all go to the baseball stadium because they are afraid of being victims of crime, because their crime rates are higher than ours," the mayor crowed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A STATISTICAL PORTRAIT: A Report Card for a City"
Figures from the Mayor(TM)s Management Report for the 2000 fiscal
year that ended on June 30.
 
CRIME
 
Major felony crimes
1999 -- 202,106
2000 -- 187,181
 
Domestic violence, arrests for violating orders of protection
1999 -- 3,374
2000 -- 4,012
 
Driving while intoxicated arrests
1999 -- 6,018
2000 -- 4,748
 
TRANSPORTATION
 
Average crosstown driving speed (m.p.h.)
1999 -- 6.0
2000 -- 7.1
 
Traffic signal complaints
1999 -- 79,906
2000 -- 95,152
 
Pothole complaints
1999 -- 30,818
2000 -- 24,672
 
THE ENVIRONMENT
 
Recycling, tons per day
1999 -- 4,748
2000 -- 6,401
 
Pest control complaints
1999 -- 15,423
2000 -- 16,442
 
CHILDREN'S SERVICES
 
Child abuse, neglect reports
1999 -- 54,673
2000 -- 53,540
 
Adoption
1999 -- 3,800
2000 -- 3,148
 
ECONOMY
 
Companies recruited to New York City
1999 -- 35
2000 -- 68
 
Private sector job growth
1999 -- 76,200
2000 -- 83,800

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CITIES (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (87%); CITY LIFE (78%); CRIME STATISTICS (76%); OVERTIME (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); POISONINGS (70%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (67%); STATISTICS (66%); THEATER & DRAMA (60%); LEAD (55%); LEAD POISONING (55%); INFANT MORTALITY (52%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); LIPTON, ERIC RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



343 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Setting a Goal of Reconciliation, Clinton Plans a November Trip to Hanoi

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14

 BODY:
The White House said today that President Clinton would visit Vietnam shortly after the November elections, becoming the first president to step onto Vietnamese soil since the end of the war there that took 58,000 American lives. The trip would complete a reconciliation with the Communist government that has unfolded over the past six years.
In what could be the last and one of the most dramatic foreign trips of his presidency, Mr. Clinton will make a state visit to Hanoi, the capital, which has been almost entirely rebuilt since the days when American aircraft conducted bombing runs. 
 But the trip will also take him through areas burned into the American consciousness more than a generation ago: Ho Chi Minh City, formerly known as Saigon, and some locations in the country's center, where much of the heaviest fighting took place, perhaps including Hue or the port of Da Nang.
Mr. Clinton's plan to visit Vietnam has been widely discussed at the White House for months. But his chief of staff, John D. Podesta, and aides to Vice President Al Gore all said that the visit could not occur until after the election was over.
"It's just too fraught with complex issues," one of Mr. Clinton's top advisers said recently, recalling the accusations in the 1992 presidential campaign that Mr. Clinton dodged the draft while at Oxford University in England, thereby avoiding service in Vietnam. "Gore's people, understandably, did not want reminders of Clinton's past distracting from the messages of the campaign."
So 25 years after the last American helicopter completed a panicked evacuation from Saigon, Mr. Clinton will spend some of his waning moments as commander in chief in the country that defined the political crises of his youth. He will most likely strike the themes he has when visiting other former American adversaries: talking about using trade as an instrument for democratization, and perhaps declaring that the two countries have found common ground as the imperatives of economic globalization have overshadowed the divisions of the cold war.
Today the White House spokesman, Joe Lockhart, said the real importance of the trip was the arrival of an American president on what was once enemy soil -- even though commerce issues will be on the agenda, as well as the search for the remainsof American soldiers still listed as missing, and studies of the effects of Agent Orange, a defoliant used throughout the war.
"There's just very much symbolic value in the president visiting and going actually to visit the country," Mr. Lockhart said. Under the current plan Mr. Clinton will not visit Cambodia, whose suffering began during what its people called "the American war," to differentiate it from so many conflicts that followed.
Congressional reaction reflected the divisions about Vietnam that linger to this day. Senator Robert C. Smith, a New Hampshire Republican and critic of Mr. Clinton, snapped, "He should have gone 30 years ago."
But praise came from Republican and Democratic veterans of the war, who provided Mr. Clinton with political cover as he lifted the embargo on the country in 1994, restored relations in 1995 and concluded a broad trade deal two months ago.
Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who spent five and a half years as a prisoner of war in the jail that became known as the Hanoi Hilton -- a spot Mr. Clinton will constantly be circling in central Hanoi -- said the president was making the right move. But he added, "I respectfully declined the president's invitation to join the trip because I was just there in April and see no need to go back so soon."
Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, called the end of Mr. Clinton's term "an appropriate time in the history between our two countries for an American president to visit Vietnam."
And Senator Bob Kerrey, a Nebraska Democrat, said: "The president has been very brave on Vietnam. He's led and done the right thing. God bless him for going."
Mr. Clinton will append the trip to his last summit meeting with Asian leaders, which this year will take place in the tiny, oil-rich sultanate of Brunei on Nov. 15 and 16. He will stay in Vietnam for "several days," a senior official said today. "We want to give him a lot of opportunity to visit with the Vietnamese people," the official said.
During the Vietnam War, Lyndon B. Johnson visited twice, to see troops stationed at Cam Ranh Bay in October 1966 and December 1967. Richard Nixon met with the South Vietnamese president, Nguyen Van Thieu, in Saigon in July 1969.
Vietnamese leaders have asked Mr. Clinton to come for many years, starting when Warren M. Christopher, then secretary of state, arrived in Hanoi in the summer of 1995 to re-establish diplomatic relations.
But the movement gathered steam this summer when, after five years, the two countries concluded a trade agreement. It has yet to be approved by Congress, which will probably vote next year. If it passes, Vietnam will receive "normal trade status," meaning that it can export to the United States under favorable terms.
Veterans' groups are also largely in favor of the trip, though officials of some organizations, including the American Legion, have expressed fears that Mr. Clinton's economic message will drown out his remembrances of the American casualties.
"We are happy that the president is visiting Vietnam," said Scott Campbell, a spokesman for the Vietnam Veterans of America. "His highest priority -- regarding our organization -- is bringing closure to P.O.W.-M.I.A. issues." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (95%); VIETNAM (94%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (94%); HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); WHITE HOUSE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; HANOI (VIETNAM); HO CHI MINH CITY (VIETNAM); UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (95%); VIETNAM (94%); ENGLAND (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (94%); HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VIETNAM; VIETNAM WAR; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COLD WAR (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); BOMBINGS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); HELICOPTERS (70%); ARMED FORCES (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); HAGEL, CHUCK (SEN); KERREY, BOB (SEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); CHUCK HAGEL (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); JOHN PODESTA (73%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



344 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: War Refugees From Liberia Rally to Stay In America

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14

 BODY:
Michael Williams left his parents, siblings and the violence in Liberia last year, hoping for a better life in the United States.
Two weeks ago, Mr. Williams, 19, lost his job in Rhode Island because, he says, he cannot prove to his employer that he will be in this country beyond Sept. 28. 
 That is the day that he and other Liberians who fled their war-torn country will be eligible for deportation, unless Congress makes them permanent residents.
"I was in danger in Liberia," Mr. Williams said. "Everyone is in danger there. The rebels have no clear goals on who to kill and who not to kill, so they will kill anyone."
He said he had not been in touch with his family for months. Many people in Liberia have no telephone service and mail is not delivered.
Mr. Williams was one of about 300 Liberians at a rally today on Capitol Hill to draw attention to a pair of bills that would grant them permanent resident status. Without it, the Liberians and their supporters say, they face oppression, if not death, back home.
One woman at the rally held a poster-size photograph of rows of skulls covering the ground. The caption read, "This is what awaits us."
Since a civil war erupted in 1989, more than 150,000 people have been killed in Liberia, which was founded by freed American slaves in 1822. An estimated 10,000 to 15,000 Liberians have fled to the United States since 1991. About 4,000 of them live in Rhode Island; many others settled in Massachusetts and Illinois.
When they first arrived, they received temporary protection status, which allows a stay of 6 to 18 months for people whose homeland is hit by natural disaster or war.
The Liberians were granted extension after extension as the civil war continued. But with the fighting over in 1997, at least officially, Attorney General Janet Reno last year decided against another extension.
Instead, the Clinton administration allowed the Liberians to remain in the United States until Sept. 28 under a "deferred enforced departure" status. Senator Jack Reed, the Rhode Island Democrat sponsoring the permanent-resident legislation, said President Clinton supported his bill.
Representative Patrick J. Kennedy, Democrat of Rhode Island, is sponsoring a House version of the bill, but it is not likely to come up for a vote.
If Congress does not make the Liberians permanent residents, the Immigration and Naturalization Service can hold off deportation procedures or extend their current status.
"No decisions have been made now," said Eyleen Schmidt, a spokeswoman for the immigration service. "We're waiting to see what Congress does."
Without permanent residency or citizenship, the Liberians must apply for annual work permits. And many employers are reluctant to hire workers who face possible deportation.
"My husband and I are not able to get jobs to use the skills we have," said Mai Yuan, a Liberian who has lived with her husband and three children in Lynn, Mass., for 11 years.
In Liberia, Ms. Yuan was as an agricultural economist and her husband was an electrical engineer. She now works for the Massachusetts Department of Mental Health; her husband works for a data-processing company. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MONROVIA, LIBERIA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBERIA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MONROVIA, LIBERIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; DEPORTATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION CIVIL WAR (90%); REFUGEES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DEPORTATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); SLAVERY (65%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL J WILLIAMS (89%); BILL CLINTON (67%); JACK REED (57%); PATRICK J KENNEDY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



345 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Puts Uzbek Group on Its Terror List

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14

 BODY:
The Clinton administration has added the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan to its list of foreign terrorist organizations, saying the group has ties to the Saudi financier Osama bin Laden, administration officials said today.
The decision reflects the administration's determination to isolate groups that it believes sponsor or abet international terrorism, especially those that American officials identify as part of a global network sponsored by Mr. bin Laden. Last year the United States placed Mr. bin Laden's group, al Qaeda, on the list, accusing him and his organization of blowing up two American Embassies in Africa in August 1998. 
 Addition of the Islamic Movement to the list of 28 foreign groups that Washington now accuses of sponsoring terrorism means that American citizens and residents are legally barred from contributing money or "material support" to the group. It also means that Islamic Movement members can be denied visas to, or deported from, the United States. And it enables the Treasury Department to seize assets held by the group or its members in American banks and financial institutions.
Administration officials said the department had already asked the nation's financial institutions to identify any assets that the Uzbek group or its members control, though they said they doubted that the group kept or raised money in the United States.
More broadly, the designation sends a signal to other states that the United States considers the group dangerous, hoping that they too will try to restrict its activities.
The agency reviews groups every two years, as required by Congress. This is the first time, said Michael A. Sheehan, the State Department's coordinator for counterterrorism, that it has not waited for that review to add a group.
Mr. Sheehan said the decision was intended to encourage the group "and all organizations to eschew terrorism as an instrument for their political goals." The move, he said, was not a signal that the United States "is against opposition forces to governments around the world, including Islamic groups."
"What we're against is their use of terrorism as an instrument," he said, adding that if the group or any other stops using terrorism, "we will drop them from the list."
The stated goal of the Islamic Movement, a coalition of several thousand from Uzbekistan and other Central Asian states, is to overthrow the secular government in Uzbekistan and establish a Taliban-style state there and in other former Soviet republics of Central Asia, which is about 85 percent Muslim.
In its annual report on terrorism issued this summer, the State Department criticized the Islamic Movement for its "anti-Western and anti-Israeli rhetoric."
One administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said there had been recent evidence that Mr. bin Laden had been shifting focus from the Middle East and North Africa to Central Asia. Several former Soviet republics are being destabilized by a resurgence of militant Islam and a flourishing drug trade. The Uzbek group has received financial support from Mr. bin Laden, American and Uzbek officials said, as well as from groups and individuals in Pakistan, Turkey, Saudi Arabia and other countries.
Most of its members are said to live in Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Afghanistan. Its recruits have been trained in Mr. bin Laden's Afghan camps as well as in Pakistan, whose weak military government faces its own Islamic pressures. Training has also taken place in Uzbekistan's conservative Ferghana Valley, where poverty and unemployment have given militants appeal.
The Uzbek government holds the Islamic Movement responsible for five car bombings in Tashkent in February 1999. Uzbekistan claims that the group was trying to kill President Islam Karimov, who has banned religious political parties.
The Islamic Movement claimed responsibility for the fall 1999 kidnapping of four Japanese and eight Kyrgyzstanis. Last month it also kidnapped several American hikers, but they escaped. Uzbek officials said that in August, Islamic Movement guerrillas operating from bases in Tajikistan staged several incursions into a mountainous border region in Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan.
Sodiq Safaev, Uzbekistan's ambassador to Washington, called the decision to add the group to its list of terrorist groups "extremely positive." "It shows that these are not freedom fighters, as they claim," he said, "but skillful, well-financed, well-trained and well-armed killers." Uzbekistan is happy, he added, that Washington "now has a clear stand."
Last April, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright pledged $3 million in new military assistance for Uzbekistan and a total of nearly $10 million to help Central Asian governments fight terrorism and narcotics trafficking. But she also called upon governments in the region to establish greater respect for human rights and civil liberties. The State Department's most recent rights report calls Uzbekistan an "authoritarian" state whose police officers torture prisoners.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Tashkent highlighting Uzbekistan: The Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan is on Washington's terror list. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); UZBEKISTAN (97%); CENTRAL ASIA (93%); ASIA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

COMPANY: ISLAMIC MOVEMENT OF UZBEKISTAN ISLAMIC MOVEMENT OF UZBEKISTAN (93%); ISLAMIC MOVEMENT OF UZBEKISTAN (93%); AL-QAEDA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ISLAMIC MOVEMENT OF UZBEKISTAN ISLAMIC MOVEMENT OF UZBEKISTAN (93%); ISLAMIC MOVEMENT OF UZBEKISTAN (93%); AL-QAEDA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); UZBEKISTAN (97%); CENTRAL ASIA (93%); ASIA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TERRORISM (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); RELIGION (92%); AL-QAEDA (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); TALIBAN (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); DEPORTATION (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JUDITH; BIN LADEN, OSAMA OSAMA BIN LADEN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



346 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 14; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 2227 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:
A selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy movies and film series playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film or series. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. An index of reviews of films opening today appears on Page 8.
 
Now Playing
 
"BLESS THE CHILD," starring Kim Basinger, Rufus Sewell and Jimmy Smits. Directed by Chuck Russell (R, 115 minutes). A runny supernatural soap opera -- the first thriller of the "Touched by an Angel" era -- that tries for the elegant calm of "The Sixth Sense" but fails. It is too often overcome by its flamboyantly cheesy reflexes. Ms. Basinger is the protector aunt of a child (the gifted Holliston Coleman) whose heavenly powers make her the target of an evil cult leader (Mr. Sewell). He means to kill her before Easter; you may feel the need to leave long before then. "Bless the Child" seems derivative of so many other movies that you're surprised it doesn't have to credit its sources the way hip-hop artists do when they sample songs. With Mr. Smits as an F.B.I. agent and Ian Holm as a priest who does a laughable steal from "The Usual Suspects" (Elvis Mitchell). 

 "BRING IT ON," starring Kirsten Dunst, Jesse Bradford and Eliza Dushku. Directed by Peyton Reed (PG-13, 110 minutes). Even though it does feature young women bouncing around in skimpy outfits, this cheerleader comedy directed with giddy, sometimes sloppy pep-rally intensity by Mr. Reed from a brisk, slangy script by Jessica Bendinger is more than a low-minded appeal to male lechery. Though bound by the conventions of the sports movie and the teenage romantic comedy, "Bring It On" has a fine satirical edge, and at least glances at some serious issues of race and sexuality. It's also a vehicle for the vibrant comic talents of Ms. Dunst, ably supported by Mr. Bradford as her cute, nonconformist love interest, and Ms. Dushku as his sister (A. O. Scott).
 
 "THE CELL," starring Jennifer Lopez, Vincent D'Onofrio and Vince Vaughn. Directed by Tarsem Singh (R, 110 minutes). A serial killer named Stargher (Mr. D'Onofrio), who abducts women and imprisons them in a Plexiglas cell that slowly fills with water, has a seizure and goes into a coma. His latest victim is trapped in his cell, and she has to be found before the automated torture takes her life. An F.B.I. agent (Mr. Vaughn) talks a child psychologist (Ms. Lopez) into using an experimental technique to enter the killer's subconscious. Mr. Singh's talents haven't quite jelled into storytelling yet. He folds this tale over and over on itself, working with a script that blends elements of "The Silence of the Lambs," "Manhunter," "The Matrix," "Seven," "Dreamscape" and "Spellbound" with the stop-motion animation of the brothers Quay ("Street of Crocodiles"), the moody photography of Matt Mahurin, the paintings of Francis Bacon and so many other things that there's no there there (Mitchell).
 
 "THE CREW," starring Richard Dreyfuss, Burt Reynolds, Dan Hedaya and Seymour Cassel. Directed by Michael Dinner (PG-13, 88 minutes). This sloppy, cliche-ridden comedy about four aging mobsters blundering their way through a series of unlikely capers has moments of wit provided by Barry Fanaro's overplotted script and Mr. Hedaya's priceless goofing. But the picture, with no clear idea of what it wants to do, lurches between slapstick and sentimentality, wasting the talents of Mr. Dreyfuss, Mr. Cassel and Lainie Kazan. Mr. Reynolds, meanwhile, absurdly cast as a New Jersey mafioso, looks as bored and grouchy as the audience will be after 88 minutes of this mess (Scott).
 
 * "IT ALL STARTS TODAY," starring Philippe Torreton. Directed by Bertrand Tavernier (not rated, 117 minutes). Filmed with unassuming realism, beautiful to look at even as it avoids any suggestion of stylishness, Mr. Tavernier's latest film is a passionate and relentless look at how chronic unemployment -- with the usual side effects of alcoholism, domestic abuse and pervasive despair -- menaces the lives of children. Mr. Torreton plays the director of a preschool in a town where the coal mines have been shut down, and the film chronicles his daily battles with bureaucrats, parents and his own pessimism. The film avoids both sentimentality and cynical despair; Mr. Torreton's character refuses to succumb to hopelessness, but he also refuses to rule it out (Scott).
 
 * "MADADAYO," starring Tatsuo Matsumura. Directed by Akira Kurosawa (not rated, 134 minutes). In the course of his long career, Kurosawa, who died in 1998, made a number of great movies. His last film, "Madadayo," released in Japan in 1993, lacks the narrative intensity of emotional range to be considered among his masterpieces, but within its own modest proportions it achieves a kind of perfection. The story is not much: a retired professor in postwar Tokyo lives out his twilight years in the glow of his former students' devotion and declares his unreadiness to say farewell to the life he lives with humor and gusto. But Kurosawa's absolute assurance as a filmmaker and his unabashed affection for his characters make "Madadayo" a richly, and in a way inexplicably, satisfying movie (Scott).
 
 * "NURSE BETTY," starring Morgan Freeman, Renee Zellweger, Chris Rock and Greg Kinnear. Directed by Neil LaBute (R, 112 minutes). Alternately hilarious, poignant and gory, this modern fairy tale that follows an aspiring nurse (Ms. Zellweger), suffering from traumatic amnesia, to Los Angeles to win the love of her favorite soap-opera character is a contemporary "Wizard of Oz." Hollywood is the Emerald City. Mr. Kinnear is the self-centered actor who plays her heart's desire on television. Mr. Freeman and Mr. Rock are a sadly introspective hit man and his hot-headed protege who follow her across the country with intention to do harm. This may be the deepest and funniest American comedy since David O. Russell's "Flirting With Disaster" (Stephen Holden).
 
 * "THE ORIGINAL KINGS OF COMEDY," starring Steve Harvey, D. L. Hughley, Cedric the Entertainer and Bernie Mac. Directed by Spike Lee (R, 117 minutes). Filmed before a live audience on two nights in February in Charlotte, N.C., the self-proclaimed Kings of Comedy swagger across the stage, urban legends in resplendent outfits. Until a couple of years ago the comedians' exposure was limited mostly to cable television. Here their comedy gives audiences that have never seen anything like it a hilarious window on a new world. They display their chops when they talk about family, specifically African-American family with roots in the South (Mitchell).
 
 "THE REPLACEMENTS," starring Keanu Reeves and Gene Hackman. Directed by Howard Deutch (PG-13, 105 minutes). This negligible jock comedy, about a group of misfit macho clowns who suit up for pro football during a players' strike, just wants to be loved: Is that so wrong? This rehashed and desperate picture stars Mr. Reeves as the honorable, stoic fill-in quarterback. (He glides through.) Mr. Hackman musters his requisite command as the honorable, stoic fill-in coach in a wardrobe from the Tom Landry Collection, mouthing dialogue from "Hoosiers" and old United Airlines commercials. The unvaried ragtag scab players include a pair of violent bodyguard brothers (Faison Love and Michael Taliferro), a violent cop (Jon Favreau) and a violent felon on loan to the league (Michael Jace). Brooke Langton is the cheerleader who resolves not to date players and dates Mr. Reeves anyway. It's a peculiarity from L.A., a union town: a film that celebrates antiunion activity (Mitchell).
 
 "SAVING GRACE," starring Brenda Blethyn and Craig Ferguson. Directed by Nigel Cole (R, 93 minutes). This innocuous piece of comic Anglophilia features the usual cast of lovable British eccentrics plopped down in a picturesque seaside spot, in this case a Cornish village. Ms. Blethyn is Grace, a widow whose husband committed suicide, leaving her $450,000 in debt and in danger of losing her lovely stone house. She and her resourceful gardener (Mr. Ferguson, who also wrote the screenplay) convert her greenhouse into a marijuana farm, and the resulting high jinks resemble a twee hybrid of "The Full Monty" and the lesser works of Cheech and Chong (Scott).
 
 * "SOLAS," starring Maria Galiana and Ana Fernandez. Written and directed by Benito Zambrano (not rated, 98 minutes). When a simple Spanish woman (Ms. Galiana) makes a rare journey to the city to be with her husband, who is having surgery, she stays with her embittered, alcoholic daughter (Ms. Fernandez) who works for a cleaning service. Ms. Galiana's eloquent, utterly unsentimental portrayal of a woman who expects little of life is an extraordinarily moving portrait of unconditional love gradually working its wonders (Holden).
 
 * "SPACE COWBOYS," starring Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland and James Garner (PG-13, 105 minutes). Directed by Mr. Eastwood. The second half of Mr. Eastwood's new movie is a pleasant reworking of the standard trouble-in-space movie, with Mr. Eastwood himself leading a heroic team of astronauts that also includes Mr. Jones, Mr. Sutherland and Mr. Garner. But the first half, which consists of the comic, tough-old-guy interplay among these four sublime actors, is a boisterous, easygoing tribute to manhood and maturity. Mr. Sutherland and Mr. Jones are in especially fine form, as are Marcia Gay Harden, playing a NASA engineer, and James Cromwell as (once again) the villainous bureaucrat who tries to deny the old-timers their shot at celestial glory (Scott).
 
 "THE TAO OF STEVE," starring Donal Logue and Greer Goodman. Directed by Jenniphr Goodman (R, 87 minutes). The "Steve" in the title refers to the spiritual embodiment of cool as exemplified by Steve McQueen, Steve McGarrett ("Hawaii Five-O") and Steve Austin ("The Six Million Dollar Man"), a goal to which the blobby and amiable Dex aspires. In this light-as-a-marshmallow romantic comedy, Dex (Mr. Logue) has lined up quotes from Heidegger, Thomas Aquinas and "Don Giovanni" to rationalize his aimless pleasure-seeking in this rather aimless movie. Mr. Logue's performance as a nice-guy player -- his weight doesn't keep him from scoring with the ladies -- makes the movie glide. Dex has a cherub's glee over what he gets away with. The movie becomes a lot less interesting when it rolls around to the inevitable quest for a steady relationship with a woman (Ms. Goodman) whose feelings were trampled in Dex's compulsive fox hunting. "Tao" can't redeem the moves to its predictable end, but its protagonist has a great time getting there (Mitchell).
 
 "THE WATCHER," starring Keanu Reeves, James Spader and Marisa Tomei. Directed by Joe Charbanic (R, 93 minutes). Mr. Reeves enunciates, Mr. Spader frets and Ms. Tomei just looks tired in this pretentious, incoherent compilation of serial-killer cliches and warmed-over MTV-style visual flourishes. Mr. Reeves is a sadistic, diabolically intelligent strangler, Mr. Spader the F.B.I. agent whose psychic torment is the killer's real turn-on, and Ms. Tomei is the agent's kindly therapist (Scott).
 
 * "THE WAY OF THE GUN," starring Ryan Phillippe, Benicio Del Toro and Juliette Lewis. Written and directed by Christopher McQuarrie (R, 120 minutes). This film feels like a more violent and grim version of a Coen brothers film; it could be Quentin Tarantino's "Raising Arizona." Its lead characters are small-time criminals who tend to speak in ambitious and hilariously orotund turns of phrase. The two, um, heroes, while visiting a sperm bank, hatch a plan to kidnap a young woman doing surrogate mother duty for a wealthy couple. "Gun" is a stylish and intelligent film noir built around the feelings adults have about babies, climaxing with a childbirth and a lengthy gunfight and standoff (Mitchell).
 
Film Series
 
"RIDE LONESOME: A BUDD BOETTICHER RETROSPECTIVE." At the age of 84, Budd Boetticher, whose life has taken him from gridiron at Ohio State to the bullring as a professional matador to Hollywood as a writer, producer and director, is receiving what is billed as his first New York retrospective. In a career that began in the 1940's, Mr. Boetticher became best known for modestly budgeted films notable for their male antagonists, their narrative drive and their visual beauty. In particular, he was well regarded for a series of westerns that starred Randolph Scott. Highlighting the first of three weekends devoted to Mr. Boetticher's career are the screenings on Sunday at the American Museum of the Moving Image in Astoria, Queens, at 2 p.m. of "The Bullfighter and the Lady" (1951) and "Ride Lonesome" (1959). The former, starring Robert Stack, is Mr. Boetticher's semiautobiographical tale of an American in Mexico who learns bullfighting to impress a woman. The latter, with Scott and James Coburn (in his debut), deals with a taciturn bounty hunter who enlists a widow and a couple of outlaws in a quest for vengeance. The series, which begins tomorrow, continues through Oct. 1 at the museum, at 34-12 36th Street, at 35th Avenue. Admission is $8.50 for adults, $5.50 for people over 65 and students with ID, $4.50 for children from 5 to 18 and free to children 4 and under. Information: (718) 784-0077 (Lawrence Van Gelder).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Renee Zellweger portrays the title character in "Nurse Betty," a comedy by Neil LaBute. (Bruce Birmelin/Universal Studios); Benicio Del Toro stars in "The Way of the Gun," whose lead characters are criminals. (John Baer/Artisan Entertainment)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES FILM (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); FILM GENRES (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); MURDER (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); HOMICIDE (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); CULTS & SECTS (68%); RAP MUSIC (66%); HIP HOP CULTURE (66%); 

PERSON: VINCE VAUGHN (58%); JENNIFER LOPEZ (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



347 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1765 words

HEADLINE: Gas Deposits Off Israel and Gaza Opening Vision of Joint Ventures

BYLINE: By WILLIAM A. ORME Jr. 

DATELINE: ON THE SOUTHERN CROSS, off Gaza, Sept. 11

 BODY:
Drilling deep below the seas off Israel and the Gaza Strip, foreign energy companies are discovering gas reserves that could lift the Palestinian economy and give Israel its first taste of energy independence.
Industry experts, including those on this giant platform, say the Palestinians and Israelis will both profit if they can work together in a high-stakes partnership. They need each other for the efficient development of these offshore reserves, since neither side alone can fully afford the billion-dollar investment in pipelines and pumping facilities that is being sketched out, the experts say. 
 The Palestinians and Israelis shy away from discussing a collaboration, and territorial issues and long-lasting hostilities could easily intrude. But both sides speak optimistically of the potential bonanza.
"This is important to the Palestinian economy because we will not be permanently dependent on foreign aid," said Nabil Shaath, the Palestinian planning minister, who expects gas deposits here to supply all local electricity needs within three years, with a lot left over for exports.
Yehezkeel Druckman, Israel's petroleum commissioner, who supervises the offshore explorations from a tiny two-room office in the Ministry of National Infrastructures, is also full of hope.
He recently calculated that Israel now has some three trillion to five trillion cubic feet of proven gas reserves. That is a tenth the size of Egypt's reserves, which are among the world's largest. But it is enough to supply Israel's current electricity network for 25 years, Mr. Druckman estimated. "And there may be more," he said this week.
Systematic exploration began this year, and Israeli officials are encouraged because large deposits have already been identified, though the ultimate quantity -- and quality -- cannot be known until the gas starts flowing, and many things can go awry before a profitable production.
But for Israel, a country that never had energy reserves of its own and that for political reasons has been forced to import almost all its fuel from far beyond the Middle East, the discoveries are stunning.
"Israelis used to joke about how Moses wandered in the desert for 40 years and ended up in the one place that had no energy," said Leonard Coburn, the top Middle East specialist at the Energy Department in Washington. "All of a sudden they have energy. It is an extraordinary change."
Now, just months after sinking its diamond-tipped bit into a gas find near the Israeli coast, this drilling platform has moved to anchor 19 miles off the Gaza Strip, in 1,900 feet of water, poised to complete the first exploration project in Palestinian waters.
Even before the Southern Cross bored into the seabed here, industry executives were confidently anticipating reserves larger than the Palestinians could profitably absorb -- but ones that could readily be sold to Israel to supplement its own newly discovered deposits. "What else are we going to do with commercial quantities of gas?" said Said Khoury, co-owner of Consolidated Contractors Company, the Palestinian minority partner in the enterprise.
Outside of narrow industry circles and the upper echelons of both governments, there is still little awareness of the scope of the exploration or the dimensions of the projected reserves.
The Israeli government, now working on a plan for a long-term conversion to gas, has yet to publish its estimates of its deposits and appears reluctant to advertise its collaboration with what could be a parallel bonanza for the Palestinians.
Prime Minister Ehud Barak's office declined to comment on the issue, though Defense Ministry officials said Mr. Barak had ordered the Israeli Navy not to interfere with the Gaza drilling. On the Palestinian side officials are also close-mouthed, declining even to reveal the terms of their exploration agreement.
Without recent advances in deep-water drilling and in sonogram-style geological scanning, it would not have been technically or financially feasible to pinpoint these deposits, say executives at the BG Group, the giant British energy company that has an exclusive 25-year concession in Gazan waters and licenses for 1,500 square miles off Israel.
The company says it has already spent $25 million on the joint exploration effort and will spend "hundreds of millions" more in the next two years.
Peering through a microscope at the first core sample unearthed from Gaza Marine 1, the geologists on board the Southern Cross liked what they saw: distinct crystals packed just evenly and densely enough to trap natural gas. "Good porosity," pronounced Hugh Miller, an Alabamian who heads BG's operations in Israel and the Palestinian Authority.
Outside, burly roustabouts wrestled fresh lengths of pipe onto the mile-long drill, now just 600 feet away from its target reservoir of what BG believes are gas-saturated sands. "Just like a big Black & Decker," shouted Anthony Clark, the rig's chief drilling engineer, as the drill drove deeper into the ancient sediment.
Though the seas here are smooth and the weather benign, the BG Group -- the $25 billion successor to the former British Gas, with energy ventures throughout the world -- says the politics of the operation are as daunting as any it has ever faced.
Last year, BG became the first big international energy company to bid for an exploration concession in Israel's history, effectively ending what Israelis had long denounced as a tacit boycott of their country by the oil and gas majors. But when Yassir Arafat, president of the Palestinian Authority, then signed a deal in London in November granting BG an exclusive 25-year concession to explore for oil and gas off Gaza, the company knew it was embarking on legally uncharted waters.
To begin with, it was not clear if there was such a thing as Palestinian territorial waters, given the Authority's nonsovereign status. The 1993 Oslo accords assigned the Palestinians a 20-by-20-mile swath of sea for limited "fishing, recreation, and economic activity," but said nothing about resources beneath the Mediterranean.
But by default, the Authority and BG reasoned, the area between Egypt's eastern maritime boundary and Israel's self-identified exploration zone was Palestinian. Though Israel could restrict shipping off Gaza for security reasons, it never claimed economic rights there.
With the quiet assent of Prime Minister Barak, BG negotiated an agreement with the Palestinians to spend up to $500 million of its money on natural gas development off Gaza. Under still undisclosed terms, the Palestinian Authority will get a share of the production and can tax the business. (In Israel, the government collects 12.5 percent of any gas discovered and a 36 percent tax on profits.)
"We want to work this play as much as possible without boundaries, because the rocks don't have boundaries," Mr. Miller said. "The endgame here is to have Palestinian gas in the Israeli market, which has to be good for peace."
So far, the gas business seems in better shape than the peace effort. The Israelis and Palestinians are both respecting the unofficial division of coastal exploration rights, despite angry objections from Israeli rightists and some local energy companies, who are suing in Israeli courts to stop the Gaza drilling.
But in a warning that a different Israeli government could stop this venture cold, Danny Naveh, a leader of the opposition Likud Party, charged that Mr. Barak could not authorize Palestinian exploitation of what he termed Israeli territory without parliamentary approval.
Further complicating matters, gas has been located in at least two large structures straddling the fuzzily demarcated line between Israeli and Palestinian waters. The two sides must decide how to allocate those reserves, which could have a production life of 10 to 20 years.
To efficiently develop these reserves, Israel and the Palestinians would have to work together. Neither can afford entirely separate plants and pipelines for pumping the gas to their respective markets -- an investment that if undertaken jointly would still approach $1 billion, Mr. Miller and other experts say.
But the crux of this partnership, say officials on both sides, should be a new Palestinian role as an energy supplier to Israel, where electricity demand is 10 times greater than the Palestinians' and growing by 7 percent yearly. In addition to Israel, said Mr. Shaath, the Palestinian planning minister, other potential markets for surplus Palestinian gas include Jordan and, in time, Turkish or European customers of a planned Egyptian pipeline.
Eventually, the discoveries could provide not just energy to Israelis and Palestinians but fresh water, too. Natural gas would make desalination plants an affordable adjunct to power plants serving the densely populated Gazan and Israeli seacoast, helping to resolve an acute potable water scarcity that is one of the region's most difficult diplomatic and environmental problems.
Even with offshore gas, though, Israelis and Palestinians will be importing oil for most of their transportation needs, experts predict.
But for the Palestinians, local gas would bring a welcome sense of energy independence from Israel, which now supplies all their electricity. The Palestinians already plan to use the offshore gas at three new power stations they are building.
For the economically robust Israelis, whose gas will start flowing first, the impact of this unexpected resource could be as much psychological as financial.
Because it had no choice, Israel has always relied on fuel from far outside the Arab world: it now ships in coal from Australia, Colombia and South Africa, and crude from Norway, Britain and Mexico. Its one brief experience as an energy producer was after the 1973 war in the occupied oil fields of the Sinai Desert, handed back to Egypt six years later.
Having its own gas reserves -- plus access to Palestinian deposits -- should make it easier for Israel to buy additional gas from Egypt, which is now building a gas pipeline to the Israeli border, analysts say. Israel's objection to Egyptian gas was fear of dependence on a single Arab supplier.
Yossi Meiman, an Israeli whose company proposed undersea piping of Egyptian gas to Israel's coastal power plants, expects Israel and the Palestinians to develop an integrated gas network. "If you want to live in a region where people are not throwing stones at one another," he said, "the best way of doing it is by creating mutual dependency."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The platform anchored in the Mediterranean 19 miles off Gaza where BG Group of Britain is drilling for gas deposits that could bring huge profits to the Israelis and the Palestinians. Below, workers aboard the rig. (Photographs by William Orme/The New York Times)(pg. A20)
 
Map of Israel highlighting the Southern Cross: After identifying gas deposits off Israel, the Southern Cross is drilling off Gaza. Developing the field will require Israeli-Palestinian cooperation.(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (97%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; GAZA STRIP; PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (97%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: GAS (FUEL); PALESTINIANS; PIPELINES OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); JOINT VENTURES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: ORME, WILLIAM A JR TZIPORA LIVNI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



348 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 33; Column 6; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: ART IN REVIEW;
Katy Grannan

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON 

 BODY:

 'Dream America'
 Lawrence Rubin, Greenberg Van Doren
 730 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street, Manhattan
 Through Sept. 30
Katy Grannan's large color photographs of unnamed, usually unclothed people are visually striking and voyeuristically irresistible. They also induce twinges of moral queasiness. 
 Yale-trained Ms. Grannan belongs to a new wave of adventurous young female photographers that includes Justine Kurland and Malarie Marder, among others. To produce the works in this, her first solo exhibition, Ms. Grannan placed classified ads seeking art models in small newspapers in upstate New York, Texas and Wisconsin. She photographed respondents in their homes, offering each a $50 fee. The results are unflinching full-length portraits, mostly of women and men in their 20's or 30's. Some pictures show couples or mothers with children. Judging from the interior furnishings, most subjects are from the lower economic end of society.
A worried-looking blond woman with tattoos on her breast and hip kneels nude yet oddly demure before louvered blinds and a simulated stone wall. A willowy woman with shaved pubic hair stands near her two dogs before an enormous, deeply padded corner sofa. A tall, regal-looking woman stands under a lowered tile ceiling nursing her tiny baby. One thinks of Diane Arbus, though Ms. Grannan's works are formally bland by comparison and not so powerfully intimate.
What is troubling is the hint of hip condescension. In setting up her project as a Pop-Conceptualist experiment, Ms. Grannan is toying with matters of class and desire (note the ironic title, "Dream America") in a way that feels uncomfortably close to slumming. KEN JOHNSON 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; REVIEWS PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); DOGS (72%); 

PERSON: GRANNAN, KATY; JOHNSON, KEN KATY GRANNAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



349 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Employment Fell During Phone Strike

BYLINE: By Leslie Eaton 

 BODY:
The number of people working in New York fell sharply in August, but government economists attributed most of the decline to striking telephone workers.
In New York City, the number of private-sector jobs fell by 11,400 last month, according to an analysis by the city comptroller's office, which adjusts the figures for seasonal factors. But if it had not been for the temporary loss of 17,800 jobs because of the strike against Verizon, formerly Bell Atlantic, the job count would have risen. Government jobs declined for the third month as census workers were laid off. 
 For the state as a whole, the strike caused a net loss of 8,100 jobs in the private sector, bringing to a halt a 14-month string of employment gains, according to the New York State Department of Labor.
Unemployment rates rose by 0.3 percentage points for both the city (to 5.8 percent) and the state (4.5 percent), but remain well under their levels of a year ago.
 Leslie Eaton (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA; VERIZON CORP VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA; VERIZON CORP NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; STRIKES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT LAYOFFS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); STATISTICS (87%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); CENSUS (54%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE LESLIE EATON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



350 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Construction Up in City

BYLINE: By Jayson Blair 

 BODY:
A report issued by the New York Building Congress estimates that construction in New York City will jump about 38 percent this year, to around $16 billion.
While construction spending has been increasing for the previous five years, the numbers dropped off in 1998 after eclipsing $10 billion the previous year. 
 In 1999, construction spending was about $11.9 billion, compared with the estimate of $16.4 billion this year, the report said. "New York City is in the midst of a building boom the likes of which have not been seen since the 1960's," the report said.
According to the report, the new spending is being driven by the strong economy and increases in public construction and commercial renovations. In addition, the report says that construction industry employment is expected to exceed 120,000, up from about 113,000 last year. The report says the increase in construction spending is expected to continue at least through 2003. Jayson Blair (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK BUILDING CONGRESS NEW YORK BUILDING CONGRESS (91%); NEW YORK BUILDING CONGRESS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BUILDING CONGRESS NEW YORK BUILDING CONGRESS (91%); NEW YORK BUILDING CONGRESS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) CONSTRUCTION (92%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (91%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (88%); 

PERSON: BLAIR, JAYSON JAYSON BLAIR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



351 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: New Doubt Is Cast on Study That Backs Voucher Efforts

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE 

 BODY:
Two weeks ago, prominent researchers released a study showing significant gains by black students who had been given vouchers to help pay for private school. The finding lent support to backers of voucher programs at a time when they have become an election-year issue.
But now a company that gathered data for the research in New York, one of three cities studied, says the gains, as measured by scores on standardized math and reading tests, were overstated by the lead researcher, a Harvard professor known within the academic community for his exuberant support of vouchers. 
 In fact, the company says, in New York there was no significant test-score difference between students who attended private school on vouchers and those who stayed in public school.
Bothered by what it describes as the report's exaggerated claims, the company, Mathematica Policy Research of Princeton, N.J., has now taken the unusual step of issuing a statement that cautions against leaping to any policy conclusions. Mathematica calls the original finding "premature."
The researchers, led by Paul E. Peterson, director of the Program on Education Policy and Governance at Harvard University, acknowledge that the gains among black students who used vouchers were concentrated heavily in Washington, where the improvement was twice as great as in New York and one-third greater than in the third city studied, Dayton, Ohio.
But in an interview, Professor Peterson stood by his characterization of the overall result as significant.
"An average is an average," he said.
The study measured test scores among 1,400 poor students given vouchers worth $1,700 a year to attend private school. While there were no significant overall gains among students of other ethnic groups, black students in their second year of private-school attendance improved their test scores by 6.3 percentile points -- a striking advance at a time when schools around the country are trying to close a persistent gap between scores of white and black students.
But the study quickly came under attack from several quarters, in part a reflection of how heated the debate over vouchers has become.
The work was initially criticized because it had been underwritten by several conservative pro-voucher foundations. But the more recent criticism has focused specifically on the way the conclusions were arrived at, with even some of the researchers saying the larger picture is much less positive than Professor Peterson maintained.
"If you ask the question, 'When I offered students vouchers, did I make a difference in their test scores?' right now you come away saying, 'No, there's no impact,' " said David Myers of Mathematica, who was a principal investigator for the study.
Professor Peterson said in the report that the gains by black students using vouchers were statistically significant in each city after two years. But in the study's New York portion, which involved the largest and most diverse group of students, the gains were limited to sixth graders; the black students in Grades 3, 4 and 5 made no gains.
"Because the gains are so concentrated in this single group, one needs to be very cautious in setting policy based on the overall modest impacts on test scores," Mr. Myers said. "We really need to learn why this group stands out so much. Until we understand it, we cannot place much policy weight on it."
Critics point to another issue as well: Professor Peterson initially said the study's results were particularly reliable because this was the first time students had been randomly selected to receive vouchers; family background, then, would presumably not influence the results.
But the critics note that a high percentage of students offered the vouchers -- 47 percent in Washington, 46 percent in Dayton and 24 percent in New York -- did not use them, and that those who ended up using them had higher family incomes and higher levels of parent education and were less likely to be on welfare. This information was not included in the report, although Professor Peterson acknowledged it in the interview.
The difference in the two groups, the critics say, suggests that the poorest students -- those whom politicians maintain vouchers would most help -- may not use them.
In follow-up interviews and surveys, Mr. Myers said, parents say they cannot afford private schools even with the help of vouchers, or find that private schools do not have enough space for their children.
Martin Conroy, a professor of education and economics at Stanford University, said: "I'm worried that there are all sorts of nonmeasurable characteristics of these kids that made it difficult for them to get into these private schools. Even if they got vouchers, they might not have been able to pay the other costs associated with private schools, and even if they could pay, they might not have been able to get into a private school."
Professor Conroy is among a group of academics who have called on Professor Peterson to release his data so they can analyze the results, which were not peer-reviewed. They question whether he adequately adjusted the data for differences in income and parent education level.
"The pressure to get something out at election time was a much more dominant theme than the idea of letting it go through review," said Henry M. Levin, a professor at Teachers College at Columbia University.
Professor Peterson dismissed the criticism, saying his work "was looked at by lots of people lots of times." 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 16, 2000, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about criticism of a research study that showed significant gains by black students given vouchers to help pay for private schools misstated the surname of a professor of education and economics at Stanford University who raised questions about it. He was Martin Carnoy, not Conroy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MATHEMATICA POLICY RESEARCH HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MATHEMATICA POLICY RESEARCH HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC) ; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; VOUCHERS; BLACKS SCHOOL VOUCHERS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SCHOOL ATTENDANCE (78%); STATISTICS (77%); ETHNICITY (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ETHNIC GROUPS (50%); 

PERSON: ZERNIKE, KATE; PETERSON, PAUL E (PROF) PAUL E PETERSON (90%); DAVID MYERS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



352 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: SYDNEY 2000: THE OVERVIEW;
The Games Are Finally Here, Even if They Are Over There

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN 

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Friday, Sept. 15

 BODY:
A beleaguered Olympic movement sought to sustain its viability and to shift its focus toward the possibilities of international brotherhood and the achievements of the world's greatest athletes as the 27th Summer Games open today in what is late winter in the Southern Hemisphere.
The 110,000-seat Olympic Stadium in this sports-mad country was sold out as 10,500 athletes from 199 nations readied to march in the opening ceremonies, viewed as a restorative, celebratory pageant that would deflect attention from the ominous threats of corruption, burdensome size and the perception that performance-enhancing drugs are used pervasively. 
 Athletes from North and South Korea were scheduled to march together, a symbol of the hopes of reuniting the bitterly divided peninsula, and four athletes from East Timor were to march as individuals under the Olympic flag, granted special entry into the Games even though the embattled island has no independent government and no Olympic committee.
Australia fielded the largest Olympic team, with 628 athletes, led by the flag bearer, Andrew Gaze, who played for Seton Hall University in the 1989 national collegiate basketball championship game. The United States had a contingent of 603 athletes, including the sprinter Marion Jones, who is attempting to become the first female track and field athlete to win five gold medals in one Olympics.
Team competition has already begun, with the American women's soccer team winning Thursday night and the men's soccer team playing to a tie the night before. Individual competition will begin Saturday morning.
Australia is expected to win its first gold medal in the triathlon and to follow with another victory Saturday night by the freestyle swimming sensation Ian Thorpe, who is 17 years old and wears a size 17 shoe. His large feet help propel him through the water like flippers.
It is the hope of the International Olympic Committee, Sydney organizers, worldwide broadcasters and corporate sponsors, who have billions invested in the success of these Games, that spectators and television viewers will make a clear distinction between the revelations of official venality in the Salt Lake City bribery scandal and the remarkable performances that are certain to be achieved here in the pool and on the track.
Steven Redgrave, the British rower, is attempting to become the first athlete to win gold medals in five Olympic Games. Alexsandr Popov, the Russian swimmer, is seeking to win the 50- and 100-meter freestyles for the third consecutive Summer Games, as is the Australian Kieren Perkins in the 1,500-meter swim event. One of the most poignant stories of the Games will involve Hicham el-Guerrouj, the Moroccan world record-holder in the 1,500-meter run, who is seeking redemption after falling with one lap remaining and finishing last four years ago at the Atlanta Games.
For Australia, the Sydney Games will be presented to the United States and the rest of the world as a kind of travelogue, showcasing the Opera House, the crisply azure weather, along with the good humor and inestimable friendliness of the people.
Australia's swimmers, who are the most popular Olympians, will be accorded rock-star status. And the attempt to win a gold medal by the world champion Cathy Freeman in the 400-meter run will bring attention to the plight of the Aborigines, Australia's indigenous people who have been marginalized by European settlers the past two centuries.
Anger and indifference seemed to prevail among Australians as the Games approached. Both of the country's I.O.C. delegates have been compromised by scandal, Phil Coles for excessive travel and gift taking in the Salt Lake City episode, and Kevan Gosper for giving his daughter a preferred spot in the torch relay. Organizers were embarrassed by a ticket fiasco in which 500,000 of the best seats were withheld for corporate bigwigs. More than 1.5 million tickets remain unsold.
But Sydney appears to be warming up for the Games. Ticket lines are long, school kids are out on Olympic holiday and the interlocking Olympic rings hang from the Harbor Bridge.
As one of the only remaining connections that an ordinary person can have to the heavily commercialized Olympics, the torch relay has been exceedingly popular here. Photographs of each torch bearer have appeared in local newspapers and tens of thousands of people have showed up daily to watch the torch on its procession to the Olympic Stadium.
"Ordinary people want to believe in the Olympics," said Richard Cashman, director of the Center for Olympic Studies at New South Wales University. "They might think the officials are hopeless and crooked and greedy and arrogant, but they still get excited. The Olympics are part of Australian identity. People admire our best athletes as moral exemplars. I suppose this is the biggest event in our history. It's a quasi-religious festival; ceremonies like the torch relay and the lighting of the torch are very powerful."
Frequently isolated from the mainstream sporting world by distance, seasonal differences in the Southern Hemisphere and unfamiliar sports like cricket, rugby and Australian rules football, Australia for the first time since the 1956 Melbourne Games will play host to the largest multisport event on the planet.
At the same time, that world stage is creaking under the burgeoning size of the Summer Games, a troublesome weight that threatens the manageability of the Olympics for any host city. Organizers recently needed a $140 million bailout from state government underwriters as sponsorship targets were not reached and the budget for the Sydney Games swelled to $1.8 billion.
Sydney's transportation system will be groaning to deliver 50,000 people an hour -- as many as 500,000 total on the busiest days -- to Olympic Park, where the Olympic Stadium, pool, basketball and gymnastics arena and baseball stadium are located and where there is limited public space for moving around.
Already, the public transportation system is struggling like Atlanta's did, with drivers unfamiliar with their routes and athletes missing training sessions because their buses were late.
"I'd be deeply concerned about the economic model and how much stress it can take putting on the Games," said David D'Alessandro, president of John Hancock Financial Services, one of a dozen worldwide Olympic sponsors.
The weather will also play a significant factor in the success or failure of these Games. Strong winds have blown down electrical lines on the train system to Olympic Park, and have interfered with training at the rowing site; some races may have to be held single file instead of side by side, so boats do not knock into each other. Sprinters will be facing a stiff headwind at Olympic Stadium, which could preclude any world records in track and field.
Further diminishing the credibility of athletic performances here is a deficiency in drug testing. A new test for the endurance-enhancing drug EPO will be used, but the test will only punish athletes caught using the drug in the previous three days. And there will be no tests for human growth hormone, insulin growth factor and artificial blood, doping that is believed to be widely used.
So while the Olympics profess to be the purest form of sport, not a single performance at the Sydney Games will escape the cloud of suspicion caused by the use of performance-enhancing drugs.
"It's a good first step, but I'd say we're only a third of the way there," said Gen. Barry McCaffrey, head of the White House drug policy office who is here to help monitor the drug-testing procedures.
A successful Games will undoubtedly lift a sagging Olympic movement, while a failure could deal a punishing blow with the uncertainty of Athens's preparations for the 2004 Summer Games.
"The desire on the part of Sydney is to make the Games fun," said Richard Palfreyman, a spokesman for the Olympic organizing committee. "The pressure is on us to deliver a great Games that keep the Olympic movement running past Sydney."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 26, 2000, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 15 about the start of the Summer Olympics misstated the precedents faced by the rower Steven Redgrave in his effort to win a gold medal in each of five Olympics. He would be the third athlete, not the first, to accomplish that. The Hungarian fencer Aladar Gerevich won gold medals in six Olympics, and his teammate Pal Kovacs won gold in five.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Phil Coles, an I.O.C. member from Australia, carrying the Olympic torch in Sydney. Tens of thousands have showed up daily to watch the torch's progress. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times); The Sydney Harbor Bridge above the Opera House. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); 

STATE: NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (55%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (55%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY (AUSTRALIA); ; AUSTRALIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (76%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES; SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS); OLYMPIC GAMES (2000) OLYMPICS (94%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); RUNNING (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SOCCER (77%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); CORRUPTION (75%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (73%); BASKETBALL (72%); TRACK & FIELD (72%); SWIMMING (71%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); SCANDALS (70%); BRIBERY (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); WOMEN (65%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (52%); 

PERSON: LONGMAN, JERE

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000



353 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1991 words

HEADLINE: When Left Turns Right, It Leaves The Middle Muddled

BYLINE: By SAM TANENHAUS; Sam Tanenhaus, a contributing editor at Vanity Fair, is writing a biography of William F. Buckley Jr.

 BODY:
No movement lasts forever, but how do we know when the end has come? Consider the case of the neoconservatives, the network of liberal and leftist intellectuals who were disillusioned by the convulsions of the 1960's -- or "mugged by reality," in the famous expression -- and drifted steadily rightward, emerging in the 1980's as an informal brain trust for the Reagan Administration.
It was the tension between liberal sentiments and conservative analysis that gave the neoconservative movement its distinctive flavor. Its first wave of thinkers -- people like Irving Kristol (often referred to as "the godfather of neoconservatism"), his wife, the historian Gertrude Himmelfarb, the sociologist James Q. Wilson and the art critic Hilton Kramer -- often sided with traditional (or paleo) conservatives on policy questions but offered strikingly different lines of argument. Where paleos decried "Godless Communism," neocons framed the issue in terms of global totalitarianism. Where economic conservatives protested that antipoverty programs amounted to "creeping socialism," neocons pointed instead to evidence that the programs only worsened conditions for the poor. Where old-line conservatives equated affirmative action with Big Brother-style social engineering, neocons said that a system of quotas violated the spirit of the civil rights movement and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s dream of a color-blind society. 
 Several of the neoconservatives rose to highly visible positions in government: Jeane J. Kirkpatrick as ambassador to the United Nations; William J. Bennett as secretary of education. Others achieved influence mainly as writers, editors, teachers and publicists. But after so many years at center stage, does this aging band still deserve the prefix "neo"? Many, both inside the movement and out, think not.
"In my view, neoconservatism is as dead in 2000 as the Free Silver movement was in 1930 or the Southern Agrarians were in 1970," says Michael Lind, formerly an editor at The Public Interest, the social policy journal edited by Mr. Kristol, and now a senior fellow at the New America Foundation. Mr. Lind, who has broken with the neoconservatives and turned against them, points out that while a few of the original ones, like the sociologist Nathan Glazer, clung to their liberal roots, the majority took up permanent residence on the right and thereby surrendered their neoconservative credentials. Tom Wolfe, who lampooned fashionable left-wingers in his book "Radical Chic," agrees that the first neoconservatives were "liberals who did not so much become conservatives in the old sense of the term as react against the turn they saw liberalism taking." He adds: "I don't think neoconservatism has any other meaning."
He won't get a fight from Norman Podhoretz, who, as the editor of Commentary for more than three decades made it a haven for disaffected liberals. "The time has come to drop the prefix and simply call ourselves conservatives," he says.
But others think the obituary is premature. A number of younger thinkers are trying to revive some tenets of neoconservatism and formulate a kind of "neo-neo-neoconservatism," as Mr. Podhoretz calls it. What's interesting is that this younger generation, mostly people in their 30's and 40's, seems to be reaching back to the liberal principles of the first neoconservatives.
Mr. Lind, for one, declares that there is at least one remaining representative of neoconservatism -- himself, of all people -- and he hopes to replenish the movement's doctrines in a new book he is writing with Ted Halstead, his colleague at the New America Foundation. The book will seek, in Mr. Lind's words, "to define a 21st-century equivalent of New Dealism." And what does that mean? "I won't give it all away, but I'll say we're sympathetic to some libertarian ideas, like partial privatization of Social Security, while supporting old liberal goals like portable, universal health care."
This fusion of left and right, a legacy of 1970's-style neoconservatism, is catching on elsewhere, too. "I don't think neoconservatism is dead -- I think we're seeing a revival of it, especially at The Weekly Standard," says one of that political journal's editors, David Brooks. He describes himself and his colleagues as "intellectual heirs" of the original neoconservatives: "They cared about urban issues and talked about them. And they didn't hate the New Deal."
Mr. Brooks and William Kristol, the editor of The Weekly Standard (and also Irving Kristol and Ms. Himmelfarb's son), have jointly been sounding the Kennedy-like theme of "national greatness" since 1997. During the Republican primaries they embraced the candidacy of Senator John McCain, contending that his agenda harked back to the Republican progressivism of Theodore Roosevelt. Senator McCain, they wrote, was "an agent of creative destruction" who might revitalize an "ossified Republican establishment" and rekindle the voters' faith in their leaders.
But just as the original neoconservatives aroused the suspicions of paleo-conservatives, who suspected them of being interlopers secretly wedded to liberal heresy, so the new neocons are meeting with skepticism from the young heirs of a more traditional conservatism. Rich Lowry, the editor of National Review, accuses The Weekly Standard of being out of touch with the Republican base. "There is very little grass roots support for national greatness," he says. Others think "national greatness" sounds like code for big government.
Nonetheless, much of the neoconservative agenda, in its older and newer forms, seems to have been appropriated by Gov. George W. Bush. His acceptance speech at the Republican convention echoed the theme of "national greatness." And his "compassionate conservatism," says Myron Magnet, an adviser to Mr. Bush and the editor of The City Journal, "is a variety of neoconservatism, its latest avatar." George Nash, a historian who has written extensively on postwar American conservatism, finds "Bush's compassionate conservatism closer to neoconservatism" than to Reagan-style Republicanism: "His education policies accept a federal role. There's no talk of abolishing the Department of Education."
And Mr. Bush's reforming impulse fits the neoconservative formula. "A lot of what neoconservatives offer is criticism of policy that has gone awry in practice," Mr. Nash explains. "They excel at demonstrating that good intentions don't necessary lead to good results."
That was certainly the case in the late 1960's and 70's, when neoconservatism forced liberals to rethink their positions. The neoconservatives introduced into the political debate a supple form of dialectical argument derived from venerable left-wing journals like The New Leader and Partisan Review. Irving Kristol had briefly been a Trotskyist in his teens, and Mr. Podhoretz was a disciple of Lionel Trilling, the Columbia English professor whose book "The Liberal Imagination" (1950) applied the dialectical method to cultural themes by exploring the ways in which literary masterworks deflated the pieties of trendy left-wing politics. Trilling, who identified himself as a liberal, called for a new kind of criticism that "might find its most useful work not in confirming liberalism in its sense of general rightness but rather in putting under some degree of pressure the liberal ideas and assumptions of the present time." That statement was almost a blueprint, or prophecy, of the neoconservative creed.
Not many political movements would have found inspiration in a book of essays whose subjects included Henry James, the Romantic poets and the Kinsey Report. But the neoconservatives were unabashedly intellectual. For a long time they didn't even align themselves with a party. With the exception of President Ronald Reagan, their favorite politicians were cold war Democrats like Henry Jackson, Hubert Humphrey and Daniel Patrick Moynihan.
"The only group I can think of that resembled the neocons in their intellectual vitality and coherence and also in their proximity to power are the progressives of the early 20th century -- men like Herbert Croly and Walter Lippmann," said Fareed Zakaria, the managing editor of Foreign Affairs and the author of a recent, and much discussed, essay in The New Yorker on the declining influence of conservative intellectuals. "Both believed that ideas mattered, that linking theory to practical problems was important, that social science and history could illuminate public policy." Both also articulated their ideas in serious small-circulation magazines that became, Mr. Zakaria says, "the path to power and fame -- The New Republic for the progressives, Commentary and Public Interest for the neocons."
But power and fame exacted a price. Beginning in the Reagan era, neoconservatives seemed to lose a bit of their independence. Some settled in at high-paying think tanks and foundations where they were lionized instead of challenged. Others, mistaking the diverse energies of the 1990's for a resurgence of the 1960's counterculture, leaped headlong into the culture wars and wrote jeremiads stocked with cant phrases like "family values" and "moral relativism." A telling moment arrived when Mr. Lind, perhaps the most promising junior neoconservative, denounced his onetime mentors in an article published in Dissent, the socialist quarterly, in 1995. Neoconservative leaders, he wrote, were guilty of "corruption by excessive partisanship in the service of the Republican Party."
And a turning point came in 1996, when a group of Christian conservatives affiliated with the political-religious publication First Things declared a virtual war on the American government and proposed solutions ranging from "civil disobedience" to "morally justified revolution." This extremism contradicted everything neoconservatives stood for. "I did not become a conservative in order to become a radical, let alone to support the preaching of revolution against this country," Mr. Podhoretz wrote in a letter to Richard J. Neuhaus, the journal's editor and formerly a neoconservative. Revisiting the incident in his latest book, "My Love Affair With America," Mr. Podhoretz says it "reminded me -- and not me alone -- of nothing so much as some of the attacks on America emanating from the Left in the 1960's."
The neoconservatives, it appeared, had completed their circuit. Having begun as old-fashioned liberals taking arms against the onslaughts of the radical left, they now wore the mantle of old-style conservatives doing battle against the assaults of the radical right.
Still, if the neoconservative movement has dwindled or died, neoconservative ideas are flourishing as never before. Last year Mr. Podhoretz praised President Clinton for having "de-"McGovernized" the Democratic Party and steering it back to the political center. And Joseph I. Lieberman, a friend of Jerry Falwell and William J. Bennett, has over the years taken positions -- like his well-publicized criticisms of Hollywood culture -- that come straight from the neoconservative play book. It seems that on a wide array of issues -- from crime to schools to welfare reform -- neoconservative thinking is not difficult to reconcile with either conservative or liberal aims. Recently Robert B. Reich, the former Secretary of Labor and a consistently liberal voice in the Clinton Administration, proposed an ambitious plan for school vouchers, which he sees as a means of achieving the classic liberal goals of integrating classrooms and improving education for the poor.
In this sense, the legacy of neoconservatism seems secure. "Neoconservatism has had a trickle-down effect on the political culture, and its influence on both major parties is evident even today," Mr. Podhoretz says, with considerable satisfaction. Or perhaps, as David Brooks puts it, "We're all neoconservatives now."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE FOREBEAR (LIONEL TRILLING); THE GODFATHER (IRVING KRISTOL); THE EDITOR (NORMAN PODHORETZ); THE SOCIOLOGIST (JAMES Q. WILSON); THE AMBASSADOR (JEANE J. KIRKPATRICK); THE EDUCATOR (WILLIAM J. BENNETT); THE YOUNGER GENERATION (WILLIAM KRISTOL; DAVID BROOKS); THE APOSTATE (MICHEAL LIND); THE CANDIDATE (JOHN McCAIN); THE OTHER CANDIDATE (GEORGE W. BUSH); THE DEMOCRAT? (JOSEPH I. LIEBERMAN?)(pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CONSERVATISM (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HISTORY (74%); SOCIOLOGY (74%); WRITERS (69%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000



354 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Fuel Supplies Ease in Britain but Protests Spread on Continent

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 15

 BODY:
Britain and Belgium struggled today to recover from paralyzing fuel blockades while truckers elsewhere in Europe stepped up the pressure for relief from soaring gasoline and diesel prices.
After a weeklong siege that saw 90 percent of Britain's 13,000 filling stations go dry, the country rushed to replenish stocks for emergency services and public transportation, but said it would be at least two weeks before supplies returned to normal for ordinary drivers. 
 Hundreds of schools shuttered in the first week after summer vacation will remain closed for days more, mail collections on Sunday have been canceled and, in the first rationing in Britain since the years after World War II, supermarkets introduced a policy of one loaf of bread per customer.
In Belgium, where the impact had been milder, the rebound was swifter. Cars, buses and streetcars flowed freely in Brussels, easing commuter frustration after five days in which the city center was closed by trucks parked across thoroughfares.
In the Netherlands, however, the protests grew dramatically, with wildcat blockades bringing highway traffic in many areas to a halt and causing jams reaching up to eight miles. Drivers sounded their horns noisily outside government offices in The Hague, and road traffic was held up for hours outside the tunnel to Schipol Airport in Amsterdam, normally one of Europe's busiest.
Protests were also stepped up in Germany, while truckers and farmers in Ireland, Spain and Poland joined the movement to disrupt travel as a rowdy complaint against the rising price of the highly taxed gasoline and diesel fuel. About 200 trucks, taxis and tractors put a stranglehold on the center of Bremen, Germany.
Creeping convoys slowed traffic on the main ring road around Barcelona, and similar action was being mounted in Merida in the agricultural west of Spain. Irish truckers applied go-slow tactics on both country roads and the highways in and out of Dublin and four other cities.
In a one-day demonstration in Poland that threatened to continue into next week, columns of trucks tied up downtown areas in Warsaw and other cities by sticking to speeds of less than 20 miles an hour.
"The protests are spontaneous in nature, but there may be as many as 100,000 participating if taxis and farmers join," the truckers' union leader, Wojciech Zylot, told Reuters.
Some stark statistics lay behind the spreading tax revolt on the Continent: Drivers pay more than twice what Americans do for gasoline, and the tax bite, 22.8 percent of the price in the United States, is more than 60 percent in Europe, with Britain topping the field at 76.2 percent. Even begrudging acceptance of those prices came to an end with the recent rise in crude oil prices to $35 a barrel, a 10-year high.
The rebellion is being led largely by farmers and self-employed truckers who say the steep rise in costs is putting them out of business. Though their numbers are relatively small and their organizations have been jerry-built, they have profited from widespread consumer outrage and gained support from the very people they are inconveniencing.
The protesters' effectiveness can be best measured by the success of the far-flung and rapidly expanding demonstrations in Britain that succeeded in bringing the country's economy to a virtual standstill.
Government responses have varied. In France, where the protests first began broke out weeks ago, the government granted tax concessions. Belgium refused to budge on taxes but came up with an $83 million compensation plan that persuaded pickets to go home. Italy averted protests by bowing to demands for new fuel discounts.
In Germany, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder has so far resisted demands to suspend taxes introduced last year in the name of conserving fuel and protecting the environment. The Irish and Dutch governments have turned down calls for trims in taxes on diesel fuel, while Spain has said it would not raise taxes but would not lower them, either.
Prime Minister Tony Blair took a tough line in Britain, despite overwhelming public support for the protesters, saying he would not change tax rates under intimidation.
The pickets left refinery gates on Thursday out of fear that their own success at disrupting life across the country might cut into their public support. While they obtained no satisfaction from the government in their central demands, the protesters threatened to throw up their blockades again if Mr. Blair did not make tax adjustments in his new budget, which is to be announced in November. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NETHERLANDS (93%); POLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (92%); IRELAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); BREMEN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NETHERLANDS (93%); POLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (92%); IRELAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); BREMEN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE (89%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); DIESEL FUEL (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); CITIES (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (56%); WORLD WAR II (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000



355 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: SYDNEY 2000: AUSTRALIA'S SECOND CITY;
Melbourne, the Host of the 1956 Olympics, Finds Itself in Sydney's Shadow

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: MELBOURNE, Australia, Sept. 14

 BODY:
It has been a bittersweet week for Australia's other Olympic city. While Sydney was dressing itself up for the opening ceremony of the Summer Games and basking in the world's attention, Melbourne, which played host to Australia's first Olympics, in 1956, watched from the sideline.
Actually, it was worse than that. Hoping to steal a bit of the Olympic spotlight, Melbourne was the host for a high-profile conference organized by the World Economic Forum the week before the Games began. But the meeting, called the Business Olympics, was almost scuttled by thousands of demonstrators who tried to blockade the hotel where it was held, clashing with riot police. 
 The violence left 30 protesters hospitalized and raised accusations of police brutality. Televised images of police officers swinging their truncheons were a dark contrast to the sunny atmosphere in Sydney.
"We were known for hosting the 'friendly games,' " said Bryan Oehm, 59, a native of Melbourne, who remembers going to the 1956 Olympics as a teenager. "This kind of violence is not what Melbourne is about. It is un-Australian. We're very concerned that this is going to tarnish our name."
Melbourne cheered itself up on Wednesday night with the opening men's Olympic soccer match at the Cricket Grounds, home of the 1956 Games. More than 90,000 fans turned out to cheer Australia, which was defeated by Italy, 1-0. The evening even featured a lavish opening ceremony that led some people to suggest that Melbourne, not Sydney, had opened the 2000 Games.
Like many people here, Oehm is ambivalent about Sydney's playing host to the Games. He is thrilled that Australia is getting another shot at the Olympics. But he is nostalgic about Melbourne's two weeks of glory, which now exist only in memory and faded newsreel footage. Those feelings are compounded by the fact that Melbourne bid for the 1996 Olympics, losing out to Atlanta.
"We really thought we had a strong chance to win," said Oehm, who is a gatekeeper at the Cricket Grounds.
While people here do not begrudge Sydney its success, there are lingering suspicions that the Australian Olympic Committee did not push as hard for Melbourne as for Sydney. The committee had been sharply divided about whether to choose Melbourne or Sydney as its candidate for 1996. Though Melbourne prevailed, some Australian officials were said to be less than enthusiastic.
Though similar in size, Melbourne and Sydney are notably different in style and atmosphere. While Sydney is brash and outdoorsy, Melbourne is more reserved and cultural. With its theaters and museums, Melbourne feels like a European capital. Sydney, on the other hand, is indisputably a Pacific Rim city, with the requisite spectacular harbor and sandy beaches.
Melbourne was Australia's capital until 1908, when the government decided to build a new capital in Canberra. And Melbourne has preserved its status as a commercial hub, home to the Australian stock exchange. But few people here argue that Sydney has supplanted Melbourne as the country's most cosmopolitan city.
"The perception that Sydney has overtaken Melbourne is definitely there," said Megan Davies, 23, who was selling Olympic memorabilia at the Cricket Grounds during the soccer match. "Whether it is true, I'm not sure."
One area where Melbourne refuses to play second fiddle to Sydney is sports. It was the first city in the Southern Hemisphere to be host for an Olympics. And it came up with some of the finest traditions of the modern Games, including the practice of having athletes of all countries mingle in the closing ceremony.
Even today, Melbourne claims most of the country's major sporting events, including the Australian Open in tennis, the Melbourne Grand Prix and the championship of Australian Rules Football.
But not being the host for the biggest event of all still rankles, even if the stubbornly cheerful residents of Melbourne are loath to admit it.
A popular television and radio commercial broadcast here this week has the chairman of the International Olympic Committee, Juan Antonio Samaranch, announcing the winner of the 2000 Games. When Samaranch comes to the word "Sydney," a voice-over cries, "Melbourne!" and the crowd erupts in cheers.
"The ad taps into some deep feelings here," said Denis Maher, the curatorial assistant of Melbourne's well-tended Olympic Museum. "It finally sates our need to win an Olympic Games." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (77%); 

STATE: VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (73%); 

CITY: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (95%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC RIM FOODSINC (50%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (77%); VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (73%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (95%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); RIOTS (75%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (73%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (73%); SOCCER (73%); BEACHES (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); 

PERSON: BRYAN OEHM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000



356 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE INCUMBENT;
Gore Meets With India Leader And Prods Senate on Test Ban

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 15

 BODY:
Mixing election politics and international diplomacy, Vice President Al Gore told Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee of India today that as president he would make passage of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty his first foreign policy initiative in Congress, and he urged India to adopt the treaty as well.
Mr. Gore, reviving a promise he made last fall, was clearly suggesting that in rejecting the treaty a year ago, the Republican-led Senate had given India an easy excuse to keep its nuclear testing program alive, and had thus contributed to the dangerous standoff between India and Pakistan. 
 Gov. George W. Bush, the Republican presidential nominee, has said repeatedly that he opposes the treaty, on the ground that it would limit America's nuclear leadership.
Mr. Gore's comments to the visiting Indian prime minister today came at a private meeting between the two men after lunch at the State Department, aides said at a White House briefing.
At other points during the day, President Clinton and a variety of administration officials went out of their way to praise Mr. Vajpayee and signed a raft of agreements, from Export-Import Bank loans to civil aviation pacts. But the administration left in place -- and left largely undiscussed -- economic sanctions imposed on both India and Pakistan after they conducted nuclear tests two years ago.
And despite talk between Mr. Clinton and Mr. Vajpayee about closer relations -- this is the second meeting between the two men in six months -- India made no commitments beyond a continuation of its current voluntary moratorium on further nuclear testing.
"I think we have worked hard together to move our relationship from one of too little contact and too much suspicion to one of genuine efforts to build a long-term partnership," Mr. Clinton said in the Oval Office this morning, the prime minister at his side.
But their meeting also had an air of farewell about it, much like Mr. Clinton's session last week with President Jiang Zemin of China. Mr. Clinton made clear that he regarded his effort to strengthen ties to India a major accomplishment of his administration.
"We should look at this as a long-term effort that -- I can speak for myself -- I hope goes well beyond my presidency," Mr. Clinton said. "I don't think it should be another 20 years before an American president goes to India." Mr. Clinton visited the country earlier this year.
The prime minister described his meetings in Washington as "part of a continuing dialogue between the world's two largest democracies," and he added a "tribute to the Indian-American community, which has been such an effective bridge in strengthening Indo-U.S. ties."
The president and the prime minister talked about everything from trade to the territorial battle over Kashmir, and then the focus quickly shifted to Mr. Gore's lunch at the State Department for Mr. Vajpayee and to the subsequent private meeting between the two.
Under the glittering glass chandeliers in a State Department dining room, Mr. Gore basked in an incumbent's perk: acting as host of a state luncheon and talking peace with a world leader. Mr. Gore said India, the world's largest democracy, and America, the world's oldest democracy, shared a special bond, and made only glancing reference to India's nuclear weapons capability.
"As the world's two leading democracies, we bear a special responsibility to take the lead in meeting the challenges that all democracies face," Mr. Gore said. "We must work together to ensure that democracy's promises are realized by all our people, that all benefit from freedom. Quality education, public health, a clean environment -- these are the goals we share and which together we can achieve. Threats that undermine democracy, such as terrorism and the proliferation of dangerous weapons technologies, are concerns we also share and will work together to address." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (79%); 

COMPANY: EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF JAPAN (55%); EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF INDIA (55%); EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF KOREA (55%); STATE DEPARTMENT (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); ASIA (79%); KASHMIR (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (72%); CIVIL AVIATION (53%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (51%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000



357 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Yearning to Be Great, India Loses Its Way

BYLINE: By Pankaj Mishra; Pankaj Mishra is the author of "The Romantics," a novel.

DATELINE: NEW DELHI

 BODY:
In the last two years, the Indian government, dominated by the Hindu nationalist party, Bharatiya Janata, has tried to establish an exalted position in the world for India. It has conducted nuclear tests, lobbied hard for a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council and played up the West's high demand for India's skilled information-technology workers. Atal Behari Vajpayee, the Indian prime minister, who met with President Clinton in Washington and addressed the Congress this week, hopes to achieve, among other things, an American endorsement of India's claim to superpower status.
For all these aspirations to 21st century greatness, however, the Hindu nationalists remain attached to a stern 19th-century idea of nationalism, which dilutes traditional social and cultural diversity and replaces it with one people, one culture and one language. 
 The intolerant climate can be seen in the growing incidents of violence against minorities, particularly Christian missionaries, the steady takeover of government research institutions by Hindu ideologues and the introduction of Hindu-oriented syllabuses in schools and universities.
In neighboring Pakistan, which was created as a homeland for Muslims in 1947, a similar attempt at building a monolithic national identity, through Islam, has produced disastrous results.
Since Islam has failed to bind the country's many ethnic and linguistic minorities, the job of holding the country together has fallen to the Pakistani army. It has tried to pacify the minorities through brutal, and sometimes counterproductive, methods. For instance, in 1971, the terrorized Bengali Muslim population of East Pakistan seceded to form, with India's assistance, the new nation of Bangladesh.
Despite that loss, the power of the Pakistani army grew and grew. Ruled by a military dictator, Pakistan became the overeager host, in 1979, of the C.I.A.'s proxy war against the Soviet Union in Afghanistan. The arms received from the United States and Saudi Arabia found their way to the black market. Civil war broke out as competing Islamic outfits fought each other with their deadly new weapons. And a flourishing drug trade led to an estimated five million Pakistanis becoming heroin addicts.
In the last 20 years, drug smugglers, Islamic fundamentalists and army intelligence officers have come to dominate Pakistan's political life. Jihad, now exported to the disputed territory of Kashmir and the Central Asian republics, is the semi-official creed of many in the ruling elite. Pakistan is now even further away from being a multi-ethnic democracy.
India looks more stable, but its political culture has changed drastically in the last two decades. The central government, as distrustful of federal autonomy as Pakistan's ruling elite, has used brute force in Punjab, the northeastern states, and now in Kashmir to suppress disaffected minorities.
In the process, India's awkward but worthy experiment with secular democracy has been replaced by a vague, but aggressive, ideology of a unitary Hindu nationalism.
The new upper-caste Hindu middle class, created by India's freshly globalized economy, includes this nationalism's most fervent supporters. It greeted India's nuclear tests in 1998 euphorically.
But this middle class is also apolitical and a bit unsure of itself. Its preoccupations are best reflected in the revamped news media, which now focus more on fashion designers and beauty queens than on the dark realities of a poor and violent country.
Popular patriotism brings temporary clarity to the confused self-image of the new middle class and helps veil some of the government's more questionable actions. For instance, in Kashmir, the government's failure to accommodate the aspirations of the mostly Muslim population led to a popular armed uprising against Indian rule.
The Hindu nationalists describe the uprising as an attack on the very idea of India and have diverted an enormous amount of national energy and resources -- including some 400,000 soldiers -- toward fighting the insurgents and their Pakistani supporters.
Since the invisible majority of India's billion-strong population -- its destitute masses -- couldn't care less about Kashmir, it is the affluent Hindu middle class that enforces the domestic consensus on the subject. It blames Pakistan for everything, ignoring the harshness of Indian rule and the near-total collapse of civil liberties in Kashmir.
Supporters of Hindu nationalism assume that a country with a strong military can absorb any amount of conflict and anomie within its borders. But the preference for force over dialogue could end up undermining India's fragile democracy and growing economy -- just as the excessive reliance on military solutions to political problems has blighted Pakistan. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: INDIA (99%); PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (92%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (73%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (99%); PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); KASHMIR (92%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (73%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RELIGION (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); LOBBYING (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); POLITICS (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (74%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HATE CRIME (69%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (66%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (62%); HEROIN (61%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (61%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (57%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000



358 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Board Passes CUNY Plan Establishing 6 Priorities

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sept. 15

 BODY:
The Board of Regents voted 10 to 4 today to approve a new four-year master plan for the City University of New York that advocates said would strengthen a network of community and senior colleges that has served as a gateway to higher education for generations of New York City residents.
The plan sets six priorities: improving teacher education; expanding the use of technology in teaching; increasing the collaboration with the Board of Education; creating programs that foster economic development in the city and state; moving toward a core curriculum at each campus; and building an undergraduate program within CUNY that will gain a reputation as a highly selective public campus, like the University of California at Berkeley. 
 The main opposition to the plan centered on CUNY's efforts to improve the caliber of the incoming students to its senior colleges and the removal of remedial instruction at those colleges. Critics say those efforts will make it unfairly difficult for students from poor neighborhoods to gain admission to CUNY's bachelor's degree programs.
The Regents approved that part of the plan last November, when CUNY submitted it as an amendment to its current master plan. But they conditioned their approval on a close review of how the remedial policy was affecting enrollment.
Several regents strongly objected to voting on the new master plan today, saying it was being approved before they could see the impact of the remedial proposal on students, faculty and the community.
"We are told that there will be no significant impact, but I don't believe that," Ricardo E. Oquendo said.
A few regents who voted for the plan warned the university that they would continue to watch it closely. And they linked their support for the plan today with a call for CUNY to establish enrollment and performance targets for academically weak students.
CUNY officials said earlier this week that their efforts had already begun to attract more students. They cited a 5 percent increase in freshman enrollment this fall, the first such increase in five years.
Carl T. Hayden, chancellor of the Board of Regents, said that there were good reasons for skeptics to see the elevation of CUNY's admission standards as having a negative impact on the ability of disadvantaged students to be admitted to the university. But, he added, the changes could also be viewed as creating "a portal of enhanced opportunity."
"CUNY has a great deal to do to ensure that a student admitted to its community colleges has not lost the chance of acquiring a baccalaureate degree," Mr. Hayden said.
CUNY officials said today that they welcomed the vote of confidence from the Regents. Herman Badillo, CUNY's chairman, and Matthew Goldstein, its chancellor, said they would seek more money to pay for the initiatives in the master plan.
The Regents also announced that the Wallace-Reader's Digest Funds had awarded a $3.9 million grant to the State Education Department to help pay for programs to train and recruit school principals and superintendents. The Regents board is overhauling the certification requirements for principals and superintendents, much as it recently strengthened the requirements to gain teacher certification. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (50%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); CORE CURRICULUM (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CURRICULA (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (77%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (73%); CITIES (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000



359 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
RUSSIA: KURSK THEORIES -- The official inquiry into the sinking of the submarine Kursk has discarded 11 theories, leaving only the possibilities of an onboard accident and collisions with a World War II mine or another vessel, Deputy Prime Minister Ilya Klebanov told Parliament. Mr. Klebanov said that a Russian minisub would arrive at the wreck site on Sept. 23 or 24, and that the cause of the disaster might be known even before efforts begin to raise the sub or remove the remains of its 118 crewmen. Michael Wines (NYT) 

RUSSIA: TURNABOUT ON GRAFT -- Switzerland's top prosecutor said Russia "has taken on concrete commitments" to pursue charges of money-laundering, a turnabout from past complaints of foot-dragging in politically sensitive inquiries. The prosecutor, Valentine Roschacher, met with the Russian prosecutor general, Vladimir Ustinov, and an official told the Interfax news service that investigations of the Aeroflot airline and the Kremlin's hugely expensive renovation were on their agenda. Michael Wines (NYT)
 
RUSSIA: FLIGHTS TO IRAQ PROPOSED -- Aeroflot and Vnukovo airlines repeated their intent to seek Russian approval to open commercial air service to Baghdad despite complaints by the United States and other Western nations that it would flout the United Nations' economic sanctions against Iraq. Vnukovo's general director said the airline would fly a charter to Baghdad on Sept. 23 carrying relief aid and a delegation promoting Russian-Iraqi friendship. Michael Wines (NYT)
 
YUGOSLAVIA: MILOSEVIC'S WIFE BARRED -- Kosovo's NATO-led peacekeeping force warned Mira Markovic, the wife of President Slobodan Milosevic, that she would be barred from entering the province if she tried to visit in connection with the Sept. 24 elections because she had not given the required four days' notice. But the news agency Beta said the ban might be the result of a misunderstanding, since another Mira Markovic, also an official in the Yugoslav Left Party, planned to visit Kosovo. (Agence France-Presse)
 
SPAIN: FRENCH HOLD TOP BASQUE SUSPECT -- The French police arrested the reputed head of the Basque separatist group E.T.A., Ignacio Gracia Arregui, in a joint operation with the Spanish Civil Guard, the Spanish Interior Ministry said. Mr. Gracia Arregui, 45, is wanted in Spain on charges that he ordered a failed assassination attempt on King Juan Carlos in 1995. His detention follows the arrests this week of 20 members of an E.T.A. planning and support group in Spain. Benjamin Jones (NYT)
 
BRITAIN: QUEEN DEPLORES DIANA BOOK -- In a joint statement, Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Charles said they "deeply deplore" a new book by Patrick Jephson, private secretary to Diana, Princess of Wales, during the years in which her marriage collapsed. They said while they felt that Mr. Jephson was violating a signed confidentiality agreement, the royal family had ruled out legal action. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
ASIA
 
MYANMAR: ACTIVIST DEFIANT -- The pro-democracy leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi emerged from two weeks of virtual house arrest and promised to keep challenging the military rulers, who have barred her from pursuing political activities outside the capital. "Stop us if you dare!" she told the government at a news conference. "I shall be traveling outside Rangoon within the next 10 days for party organizational work," she said. (AP)
 
NORTH KOREA: G.I. REMAINS RETURNED -- Remains believed to be those of nine American soldiers missing in action in the Korean War were returned to the United States military. A United Nations honor guard removed them from a plane that flew them to Tokyo from Pyongyang, North Korea. The recovery operation, the third this year, was the 15th in North Korea since the program began in 1996. (AP)
 
CHINA: TWO U.S. WARPLANES FOUND IN TIBET -- China has found two American planes that crashed in Tibet in World War II, according to Robert Jones, deputy assistant secretary of defense for P.O.W. and missing personnel affairs. (Reuters)
 
KYRGYZSTAN: MORE CLASHES WITH ISLAMIC REBELS -- Islamic insurgents used grenade-launchers to fire on government troops as clashes erupted for a third night on Kyrgyzstan's southern frontier, the Defense Ministry said. Kyrgyz border troops waged a three-hour battle with about 10 armed rebels who attacked the Dzhyly-Suu border post late Thursday, according to the chief military spokesman, Bolot Imanaliyev. (Agence France-Presse)
 
AFRICA
 
NIGERIA: SHELL FACES TRIAL -- A lawsuit against the Shell oil company over its operations in Nigeria will be heard in federal court in New York. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit decided on Thursday that officials of Royal Dutch/Shell could be tried on charges of colluding with the authorities in Lagos in the torture and murder of Nigerian activists, including the author and opposition leader Ken Saro-Wiwa. Mr. Saro-Wiwa was hanged with eight others in 1995. (Agence France-Presse)
 
CONGO: 51 CIVILIANS SLAIN -- Congolese rebels discovered the bodies of 51 civilians who appeared to have been shot at close range by government troops retreating from the northwest town of Dongo, a rebel leader said. Jean-Pierre Bemba, leader of the Ugandan-backed Congolese Liberation Movement, which is fighting to oust President Laurent Kabila, said that the 47 men and 4 women had been killed Sept. 8 and were found the next day, when the rebels took over the town. (AP)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAN: LEADING THE GROUP OF 77 -- Iran was elected by acclamation to the chairmanship of the influential Group of 77, which now numbers 133 developing countries. The election was held at the annual meeting of the group's foreign ministers in New York. Iran will succeed Nigeria in January. (Reuters)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Map of the Congo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AFLT (RTS) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SPAIN (94%); IRAQ (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (87%); 

COMPANY: AEROFLOT RUSSIAN AIRLINES OAO (56%); AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (52%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SPAIN (94%); IRAQ (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (87%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INVESTIGATIONS (91%); AIRLINES (90%); BRITISH ROYALTY (84%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ARRESTS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); ASSASSINATION (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); MONEY LAUNDERING (69%); PEACEKEEPING (67%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (67%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (64%); BRITISH MONARCHS (63%); BOOK REVIEWS (60%); POLICE FORCES (58%); 

PERSON: ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (63%); PRINCE CHARLES (50%); PRINCESS DIANA (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000



360 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Stocks Tumble as Oil Prices Rise and Oracle Disappoints

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks closed sharply lower yesterday, as disappointing sales from the software maker Oracle led to a technology sell-off while surging oil prices pummeled blue chips.
Blue-chip stocks declined on lingering worries that corporate profits will lag because of high energy costs and a weaker euro, the faltering single European currency. But energy stocks, led by Exxon Mobil, rose as oil prices bolted to their highest level since the 1990-91 Persian Gulf crisis. 
 "You are going to see earnings come in a little bit softer than expected for the multinationals," said Larry Rice, chief investment officer at Josephthal Lyon & Ross. "You are going to see the cost of energy, labor, benefits -- all that -- cutting into the bottom line."
The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index declined 78.63 points, or 2 percent, to 3,835.23. The slide cut across most sectors, including computer hardware and software, Internet and telecommunications companies.
The Dow Jones industrial average was down 160.41 points, or 1.5 percent, to 10,927.06. While the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 15.06 points, or 1 percent, to 1,465.81.
New economic data, which showed that inflation remained in check, failed to spark financial markets. The widely watched Consumer Price Index, the nation's broadest measure of inflation, slipped 0.1 percent in August, falling well short of expectations for a 0.2 percent rise, after July's 0.2 percent increase.
"That's an old number, it doesn't mean that much anymore because oil prices have changed so much since those numbers were calculated," said Ed Peters, chief investment strategist at the Boston-based PanAgora Asset Management.
"We know that the C.P.I. number does not reflect what is going on now," he added, referring to the Consumer Price Index. "All that decline in inflation has been eroded by oil prices' going up."
The markets were also whipsawed by "triple witching" -- the expiration of stock options, index options and futures -- which exaggerated movements in the stock indexes.
Oracle, the database software maker, posted profits late Thursday that beat estimates and set a 2-for-1 stock split. But its shares fell $6.63, to $78.31, on lower-than-expected sales of its application software. The company expects sales of its software that stores and manages reams of information to increase just 20 percent each quarter for the rest of the year, a slower pace than the 32 percent jump in the last quarter.
"These stocks in particular are all based on very robust sales and they are not priced for any kind of slowdown," said Mr. Peters of PanAgora, referring to technology issues.
"Everybody is finally realizing that a slowdown is a slowdown and earnings growth is not going to be at the same rate of the last couple of years," Mr. Peters said.
Intel, the chip maker that is Nasdaq's most actively traded share, fell $2.11, to $57.52. Cisco Systems, the Internet infrastructure giant, fell $1.50, to $62.75, and Microsoft, the software giant, was off $1.63, to $64.19.
WorldCom, the telecommunications company, finished down 63 cents at $29.44. It hit a new 52-week low of $28.81.
"The market loves to worry, that's the bottom line," said Joseph Barthel, chief investment strategist at Fahnestock & Company.
But Adobe Systems, the maker of Web publishing software, was a bright spot, after posting earnings that beat expectations. Adobe gained $7.25, to $132.625.
Among the Dow components, Exxon Mobil was up $3.79 at $89.06 after hitting a record high of $89.875 earlier in the session, as oil prices surged nearly $2 a barrel, to a decade high of $36.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 12/32, to a price of 99 12/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.83 percent from 5.78 percent on Thursday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 16/32, to 104 30/32. The bond's yield rose to 5.90 percent from 5.81 percent on Thursday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 
Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year.
(Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (96%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (96%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (96%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (96%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (57%); PANAGORA ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK INDEXES (94%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); CURRENCIES (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); STOCK SPLITS (79%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (78%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); FUTURES (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); EURO (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BOND MARKETS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); STOCK OPTIONS (59%); 

PERSON: ED PETERS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000



361 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE REPUBLICAN RUNNING MATE;
Starting to Hammer Away, At Rivals and on Message

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: DENVER, Sept. 15

 BODY:
After spending a bumpy month trying to deflect criticism of everything from the conservative votes he cast in Congress to his business affairs to his spotty voting record in Dallas, Dick Cheney, the Republican vice-presidential nominee, has decided that the best defense is a strong offense.
On campaign sorties into several crucial states this week, Mr. Cheney used some of his bluntest language yet to criticize Vice President Al Gore and his proposals for the economy, health care and education. 
 "In my view Al Gore is not yet ready for the big chair," he told the Economic Club of Grand Rapids, Mich., on Wednesday. He criticized Mr. Gore's economic proposals by saying that "some people call his plan a 'Swiss cheese budget' because it has so many holes in it."
He told a group in Kingston, Pa., on Tuesday that Mr. Gore's criticisms of Gov. George W. Bush's plan to overhaul Medicare were "just flat-out wrong." And Mr. Cheney never refers to the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles without calling it "the Hollywood convention."
On Thursday in a Cleveland suburb, he accused Mr. Gore of hypocrisy for his stance against violence in entertainment. "I find it a little hard to understand how, on the one hand, our opponents, Al Gore and Joe Lieberman, can go out publicly and castigate Hollywood and the music industry for the kinds of material they produce," he said, "and, on the other hand, go to their homes and hold fund-raisers and schmooze with them as they collect millions of dollars."
Mr. Cheney's newly combative language is just one of several readjustments he has made on the campaign trail this week, after his choice as Gov. George W. Bush's running mate was openly questioned by some leading Republicans who were concerned about Mr. Gore's rising poll numbers. Mr. Cheney has also continued to work on adopting a more relaxed style on the stump.
" You've got to keep banging away at your objectives and your message, and not be blown by the winds of the moment on any given issue, any given day," Mr. Cheney told reporters. "That's what's called for here. Polls go up, polls go down. Stuff happens. You've got to be able to maintain your focus and keep plowing ahead."
To that end, he spent the week talking about Medicare in Pennsylvania, taxes in Michigan and education in Ohio. It was just how Bush aides had initially said they planned to use Mr. Cheney: send him to hotly contested, undecided states with a significant number of electoral votes, rather than relegate him to the lesser role sometimes accorded to running mates of shoring up the party's base in small, safe states.
This week Mr. Cheney continued to fight his reputation as a stilted campaigner by using more humor in his speeches and more gestures to emphasize his points and by fielding more questions from the audience.
At a firehouse in Kingston, Pa., Mr. Cheney got a laugh with a story from his days as Wyoming's lone Congressman. He was running for re-election, his story went, when he spotted a cowboy at a festival and asked for his vote. "You've got it," he remembered the cowboy as saying. "That fool we've got there now's no damn good."
In Montague, Mich., he shed his necktie and donned a green Michigan State anorak for a campaign stop on a family farm, where he discussed Governor Bush's proposal to abolish the estate tax, or, as he called it, the death tax. It was a crisp, clear day, and the corn fields, the red barn, the John Deere tractor and a crowd of supporters sitting on bales of hay all made for a very different photo opportunity from the nursing homes, schools and airport hangars of the past few weeks.
At a rally today at Jefferson County Airport in Broomfield, Colo., a small plane flew behind Mr. Cheney's lectern trailing a banner trumpeting one of the Bush campaign's favorite slogans: "Help Is on the Way."
Mr. Cheney bought a few new suits in Virginia last weekend. And his campaign is suddenly playing music -- Van Morrison's "Bright Side of the Road" and the inevitable theme from "Rocky" -- to warm up crowds along the trail.
There have been a few hitches, though. After speaking at a rally on Thursday in the Marietta High School gym, he was questioned by the editor of the school paper about the effect of school vouchers on resources for public schools. Then, after Mr. Cheney fielded questions from the audience, a student rose to complain that he was ignoring the concerns of the children in the bleachers, causing many fellow students to stand and cheer.
So, Mr. Cheney stayed longer than he had intended, to take a few more questions from students and, as he left, said: "Let me apologize to our friends over here in the stands. I certainly did not mean to ignore the students."
At nearly every stop, Mr. Cheney has stepped up his criticism of Mr. Gore, assuming the traditional role of the running mate. "We are using him to counterpunch more," said Karl Rove, the chief strategist for the Bush campaign.
On Thursday, discussing education, Mr. Cheney accused Mr. Gore of being "soft on accountability."
Mr. Cheney began to go down this road last Friday at a campaign appearance at a senior center in Connecticut, where he responded to Democratic criticism of Gov. George W. Bush's Medicare plan. But his speech there was almost eclipsed by a series of embarrassments. A Republican Congressional candidate for whom he had gone there to stump released an ad that day praising his Democratic rival, Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman. A newspaper reported that Mr. Cheney had missed 14 of the 16 elections during the five years he was registered in Dallas. Then The Associated Press reported that the company he led, Halliburton, maintained separate bathrooms overseas for American and foreign workers.
This week, Mr. Cheney voiced some of his frustrations with the press. "It's always fascinating for me to watch and see that those of us who get in the arena -- put our names on the ballot, go out and slug it out every day for something we believe in -- spend all of our time then being critiqued by people who have never been in the arena, never will get in the arena, sit in the bleachers and do well second-guessing what we're all about," he said in Michigan, responding to a member of the Economic Club who had asked him about bias in the media.
"It's much easier, frankly, to cover some of the trivial stuff that from time to time seems to dominate when we get one these feeding frenzies going," he said. "But it is unfortunate, I think, because what happens is it does not lead to informed debate and dialogue. It means you've got this huge news mechanism, a media mechanism, discussing trivia."
Mr. Rove, the Bush campaign strategist, said that Mr. Cheney was showing signs of warming up to campaigning and noted that it had been 12 years since he had run for office. "He's flexing his political muscles," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dick Cheney, left, walked with Mike Cockerill before a speech about estate taxes on Wednesday at the Cockerill farm near Montague, Mich. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (72%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); MEDICARE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (72%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CONSERVATISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RECORD INDUSTRY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (72%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (90%); DICK CHENEY (90%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000



362 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Aaron W. Warner, 92; Helped Shape New Deal and Columbia

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Aaron W. Warner, a left-leaning lawyer who began his career as one of Felix Frankfurter's "bright young men" in the New Deal, and then switched careers at 46 to be a Columbia University professor and administrator for almost half a century, died on Aug. 25 in Manhattan. He was 92.
At Columbia, Dr. Warner helped frame the university's response to the 1968 student demonstrations and strove to broaden the university's reach, first as dean of the School of General Studies, which offers college courses to working adults, and then as dean of continuing education. He was also director of the University Seminars, which each year draw 3,000 people from academia and myriad other fields to address topics like Middle East politics, the cinema and brain chemistry. 
 He did not resign as director of the seminars until last July, and he played tennis until 1986 and the piano until last year -- only Mozart and Chopin, as always. His final work, a collection of articles that he edited to honor his Columbia colleague William S. Vickrey, the Nobel Prize-winning economist, will be published later this year.
It was hardly surprising that his response to a surprise birthday cake on his 90th birthday was real, not feigned, anger, recalled Anissa Bouziane, who was his assistant in running the seminars.
He complained, "Nobody's supposed to know I'm this old."
Aaron Warner, who lived in Manhattan, was born in Newark on May 16, 1908. He was given no middle name, but later added the W., which stood for nothing. He became an accomplished pianist and was awarded a scholarship to the Institute of Musical Art, which later became the Juilliard School. He graduated from New York University, and then went to Harvard, where he simultaneously earned a master's degree in English and a law degree, studying under Frankfurter, who later became a Supreme Court justice.
He then practiced law with a Boston firm for four years, but was fired in 1934 for representing demonstrators who opposed the docking of a ship from Nazi Germany. The firm's principal, Harry N. Guterman, said he had no permission to take the case.
In 1937, he was appointed regional director of the National Labor Relations Board in Denver, the youngest person to hold such a position, according to news reports at the time. He later held the same post in Los Angeles before becoming special examiner for all the board's regional offices.
A fierce supporter of the rights of workers, he was quoted in The Salt Lake Tribune in 1939 as saying, "In guaranteeing the rights of workers to organize, we are strengthening those forces which will enable us to remain a free people long after other nations with less foresight have felt the crushing heel of fascism."
While he was at the labor board, his former boss, Mr. Guterman, approached Representative John W. McCormack, a Democrat of Massachusetts, who later became speaker of the House, to suggest that Dr. Warner harbored "radical sympathies." This resulted in a House investigation, which eventually cleared him of charges that he was a Communist.
He then worked for the Railroad Retirement Board and was chief of field operations for the administration of wartime price controls. In 1943, he joined the Navy as an enlisted man and served for three years in the Pacific.
While he was away at war, his wife, the former Charlotte Rosen, recovered from tuberculosis and decided to go to medical school. When he returned, he also wanted a new beginning. He enrolled in Columbia to study economics. "He figured that if she could become a doctor, he had to have a doctorate," their son-in-law Alan Myerson said.
After earning his Ph.D. in 1954, he became a Columbia professor, specializing in labor issues. He was named the Joseph Buttenwieser professor of human relations in 1967. As a member of a faculty committee appointed to deal with educational planning after student protests in 1968, Dr. Warner fought "the old school boy, old boy Columbia College mold," said Ms. Bouziane, his former assistant.
Soon after, he was named dean of the School of General Studies, and the position gave him an opportunity to make it easier for working people to take Columbia courses. After his retirement from that school at 68, he spent two years as dean of the university's School of Continuing Education, which serves older adults.
"Older people are good people to teach," he told an interviewer in 1976. "We find them very highly motivated, very thoughtful people, and usually highly intelligent. Their life experience is rich."
A modest man with twinkling green-gray eyes, Dr. Warner also took charge of the University Seminars, which began in 1945. Those he introduced included one in 1962 on technology and social change, which spawned a series of books he edited, and one in 1983 on philanthropy.
"What we look for," Dr. Warner said in an interview in 1984, "are leading people in the field from different disciplines, preferably from both on and off campus. We look for subjects which are critical from the point of view of intellectual challenge and which seem to have lasting value."
The program has produced a great treasure: the minutes of each seminar, which are stored on crammed bookshelves. "If you want to find out what Margaret Mead said on June 15, 1959, you can find out," Dr. Warner said.
His wife Charlotte died in 1970. He is survived by his second wife, whom he married in 1971, the former Miriam Firestone; two daughters, Rachel Warner of Washington, D.C., and Abby Myerson of Los Angeles; a sister, Miriam Rosen of Maplewood, N.J.; and six grandchildren.
Several years ago, Dr. Warner asked Abby and Alan Myerson, who are tournament bridge players, to explain the rules of the game, Mr. Myerson recalled. That evening, he accompanied them to a tournament and was one of the top players.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Aaron W. Warner in the 1980's. (Columbia University)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KEARNS-TRIBUNE LLC (51%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (73%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); BOARD CHANGES (74%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); BRAIN (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); BIOCHEMISTRY (54%); 

PERSON: AARON W WARNER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000



363 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Finacial Desk

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices in August Registered a Rare Decrease

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
For the first time in more than 14 years, it cost American consumers a bit less last month to fill their market baskets with goods and services than it did the month before.
It took an exceptionally big drop in energy prices to bring about this rare suspension of inflation -- and economists agreed that the trend would almost certainly be fleeting since the price of oil has climbed in September to a 10-year peak. 
In fact, analysts said they found further evidence in yesterday's Labor Department report that inflation was edging up, though not at a pace that should worry policy makers just yet.
"There is an upward creep in some areas, particularly services," said Richard B. Berner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "But the Federal Reserve ought to still be pretty comfortable."
The central bank raised short-term interest rates six times between mid-1999 and this past May to prevent unsustainably fast economic growth from stoking inflation, but the Fed has since taken no further action as the economy shows more and more signs of slowing.
Most analysts now assume that the Fed, which would prefer not to raise rates during the election season, will remain on the sidelines at least through the end of the year.
The Consumer Price Index for August inched down 0.1 percent as the cost of energy skidded 2.9 percent. Gasoline itself dropped 6 percent, the most since February 1991 in the aftermath of the Persian Gulf war, but has rebounded this month.
The last time the C.P.I. declined was also tied to energy. In 1986, world oil prices collapsed, bringing down overall inflation.
When the energy and food components, which tend to swing widely, are excluded, the index advanced 0.2 percent, the fifth consecutive month at this same, steady pace.
"The core is still moderate," said Richard D. Rippe, chief economist at Prudential Securities, suggesting no urgency for additional Fed action but pointing to its 2.5 percent rise over the last 12 months compared with 1.9 percent for calendar 1999.
"That's not a huge deterioration, but it is a deterioration," Mr. Rippe said. "And if energy price rises begin to be passed along, that would become a troublesome situation."
The upward pressure is coming largely from services, like medical care. Medical services have climbed from an annual rate of 3.3 percent for the three months ended November 1999 to 5.2 percent for June through August.
Inflation for all nonenergy services ran at 3.8 percent for the latest three months, compared with 3.1 percent six months earlier.
By contrast, the core rate of inflation, measuring prices for goods other than food and energy, fell at a 1.1 percent annual pace in the June-through-August period.
In a separate report, the Federal Reserve said that the output of the nation's factories, mines and utilities climbed 0.3 percent last month, a rise owing much to unusually hot weather that pushed up demand for electricity and forced utilities to operate at 91.2 percent of capacity, almost four percentage points above average.
Factory production this summer, however, slackened to the slowest two-month pace since early 1999.
Although energy dominated the August price results, the report showed that the cost of shelter, which accounts for 30 percent of the index, rose 0.3 percent after a 0.2 percent July increase. Over the last 12 months, shelter has risen 3.2 percent.
But prices in the food and beverage category, with a 16 percent index weight, slowed their rise to 0.2 percent from 0.5 percent as each of the major food-at-home groups other than fruits and vegetables contributed to the deceleration.
The medical category climbed 0.4 percent to a level that was 4.2 percent higher than in August 1999, with hospital and related services up 6.6 percent over the year. The cost of prescription drugs jumped 0.6 percent, the biggest monthly rise since November.
As for the largest metropolitan areas, prices in New York rose 0.2 percent last month and have gone up 3 percent since August 1999; Los Angeles was up 0.3 percent and 3.5 percent over the year, while prices in Chicago fell 0.5 percent last month to a level that was 2.5 percent above that of August 1999.
The report also showed that inflation had eroded the purchasing power of the 1982-1984 dollar to 57.9 cents and the 1967 dollar to 19.3 cents.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Industrial Production"
Index of total industrial production, 1992 =100, seasonally adjusted.
 
Changes From Previous Month
Aug.: +0.3%
July: 0.0
June: +0.3
 
Graph tracks industrial production from March 1999 to August 2000.
(Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); INFLATION (89%); GASOLINE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); DESERT STORM (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000



364 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: Questions Raised About Ford Explorer's Margin of Safety

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 15

 BODY:
On the wide-open highways of the South and West, drivers often push their Ford Explorers toward the vehicle's maximum speed -- 99 miles an hour -- for hours at a time. Yet the Firestone tires on millions of Explorers are certified to last only 10 minutes at a slightly higher speed -- 106 miles an hour.
When those Explorers are filled with children, luggage and the many accessories of family life, the rear suspensions of sport utility vehicles are sometimes forced to carry loads that exceed the recommended weight limits, putting extra strain on the fairly small, low-pressure rear tires. 
 As Bridgestone/Firestone Inc., the Ford Motor Company, federal regulators and Congressional investigators try to sort out why close to 100 Americans have died in crashes involving Firestone tires on sport utility vehicles, particularly Ford Explorers, attention has focused on how Firestone designed and manufactured the tires being recalled. Indeed, Firestone admitted for the first time on Tuesday that it had made "bad tires" and said it was investigating the manufacture of a steel belt in the steel-belted radial tires.
But what has also emerged from Congressional testimony and recently released internal company documents is a picture of a tire, made according to Ford's design and marketing demands, that has often been run to its very limits. Indeed, in choosing those tires, Ford permitted a narrower margin of safety than in many other vehicles.
Not only does the combination of vehicle and tire push the limits on weight and speed. The Explorer itself, like many other sport utility vehicles with high centers of gravity, is prone to roll over despite what company documents show was an extensive but not entirely successful effort by Ford in 1989 to make the vehicle more stable. Taken together with the tire manufacturing problems and a variety of human factors -- in essence, people tend to drive too fast and pay too little attention to the age or air pressure of their tires -- the Explorer and the Firestone tires have proved a deadly pairing.
The demands that Ford placed on the tires reflect the difficult trade-offs the company faced in trying to turn the Explorer, essentially an off-road truck, into a more fashionable, refined vehicle that would feel like a car during high-speed driving. To give the Explorer a more comfortable ride and make it less likely to roll over in everyday driving, Ford chose a fairly low inflation pressure of 26 pounds a square inch. But at low pressures, tires cannot support as much weight and are more susceptible to coming apart at high speeds.
Jacques A. Nasser, Ford's chief executive, has denied that Ford bears any responsibility for what has happened, and he did so again in testimony before the Senate Commerce Committee on Tuesday. "We know that this is a Firestone tire issue, not a vehicle issue," he said.
Ford officials have two arguments to buttress their position. Goodyear tires installed on nearly half the Ford Explorers produced from 1995 to 1997 have had few problems, despite having the same recommended pressure. And even with the tire-related deaths, which have mostly occurred in rollovers, occupants of Ford Explorers still have lower overall death rates, and fewer deaths in rollovers, than occupants of other midsize sport utility vehicles.
It is possible, although hard to confirm, that in choosing a low pressure, Ford might have actually saved more lives than have been taken in tire-related crashes. Low-pressure tires reduce the risk of rollovers during sharp maneuvers. Even with the tire-related rollovers, the death rate in rollovers for Explorers is 42 percent lower than for its main rival, the Chevrolet Blazer, which uses a much higher-pressure tire but is also marketed to a younger audience that may take more risks while driving.
Ford officials say that the safety margin was adequate and that Ford maximized the vehicle's overall stability and handling.
That Ford had to look at tire pressure at all in conjunction with rollovers is another sign of the problems that automakers face in trying to make sport utilities as stable as cars.
The Firestone tires being recalled had what the tire industry calls an "S" rating for speed, meaning that they could go 112 miles an hour for at least 10 minutes if inflated to 35 pounds a square inch. By choosing 26 pounds, Ford lowered the tires' top speed to 106 miles an hour, according to tire industry guidelines, and trimmed the safety margin to 7 miles an hour above the vehicle's top speed. That is a few miles an hour less than on other Ford models or other manufacturers' models.
General Motors uses S-rated tires for midsize and full-sizesport utility vehicles but recommends 35 pounds of tire pressure except for the Cadillac Escalade and GMC Denali, which have a recommended pressure of 30 pounds but use extra-large tires. G.M. specifies a tire safety margin of 14 miles an hour above the vehicle's computer-limited top speed except for models with extra-large tires, which provide a different kind of safety margin, said Brook Lindbert, G.M.'s tire and wheel director.
Then there is the question of weight. The Explorer's tires have less overall capacity to carry weight, in addition to the vehicle's own weight, than do the tires on most sport utilities. The Chevrolet Blazer uses the same size tires as the Explorer, for example, but because they are inflated to 35 pounds a square inch, they can carry 1,100 pounds more than the Explorer's tires. A Blazer typically weighs 100 to 200 pounds less than an Explorer, too.
A Firestone technical document, presented at a conference in 1998, shows that when the vehicle is carrying even a modest load, more of the weight is on the left rear tire than on any other tire -- about 60 pounds more than on the right rear tire and 300 pounds more than the front tires.
Tom Baughman, Ford's engineering director for light trucks, said in an interview that the left rear tire was the most likely to fail, but added that weight did not appear to be the main reason for this. Ford has nonetheless decided in the last several weeks that the recommended pressure for tires on the company's completely redesigned 2002 Ford Explorer, scheduled to go on sale next January, will be at least 30 pounds for the front tires and 32 to 35 pounds for the rear tires, he said. A month ago, Ford officials had said that the pressure would be 30 pounds in the front and in the rear for the new Explorer.
Mr. Baughman said the choice of a fairly high pressure for the rear tires had been made to improve the ability to carry weight in the rear. Extra tire capacity to carry weight is needed because Ford will start offering a third row of seats in the Explorer, he added.
Mr. Baughman said that Ford had analyzed Firestone's database of property damage and physical injury claims and found that the claims were more likely to involve the left rear tire than any other tire. But Ford found in the Firestone database for the tires being recalled that this was true for sport utilities made by Toyota, Nissan and DaimlerChrysler, too, although tires on these companies' models were subject to far fewer claims over all, he said.
While the Explorer's gas tank is near the left rear tire and is heavy when full, Ford does not believe that the concentration of problems on the left rear tire reflects the weight distribution, Mr. Baughman said. Ford suspects that rear-wheel-drive vehicles put more strain left rear tires because these tires get energy from the engine during acceleration slightly more directly than the right rear tire.
Mr. Baughman said that Ford also suspected that the center of a road radiates more heat on a hot day than the edges. Ford has been using infrared devices to measure this while driving Ford Explorers around a test track in Dearborn, Mich., in recent weeks, Mr. Baughman said.
Mr. Lindbert of G.M. was skeptical of the rear-wheel-drive hypothesis and had not heard of road heat being a problem. G.M. has tested the strain on rear tires during acceleration and found no meaningful difference between the left and right, he said.
Mr. Lindbert expressed surprise that many Ford Explorers were encountering problems with the left rear tire, explaining that it is more common for right rear tires to fail on other vehicles than left rear tires. Road debris, like nails, tends to end up by the side of the road -- roads are built highest in the middle so that rain can drain off. Vehicles' front right tires briefly tip the points of the debris up into the air and then the rear right tires hit the debris at the wrong angle, are punctured and begin losing air, Mr. Lindbert said.
The high frequency of rollovers in Explorers that have lost tires has focused the tire industry's attention on how automakers have shifted from building cars to building sport utility vehicles. John Lampe, Firestone's executive vice president, admitted in testimony last Tuesday that the tire company had not understood until now that sport utilities were especially vulnerable to tire problems. But he also pointed out that federal regulators had not recognized the problem either, in leaving tire standards less stringent for sport utility tires than for car tires.
The regulations, "do not address this vehicle population, a population which has exploded in the past 10 years," he said. "These issues have been difficult for us. We are not vehicle experts. And these issues may have made it harder for us to see the problems we had and that we now recognize in our tires."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jacques A. Nasser, the chief executive of Ford Motor, testifying Tuesday on Capitol Hill. (Associated Press)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 5108 (TSE) (96%); FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (96%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS326212 TIRE RETREADING (91%); SIC7534 TIRE RETREADING & REPAIR SHOPS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (76%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: BRIDGESTONE CORP (96%); FORD MOTOR CO (94%); BRIDGESTONE AMERICAS HOLDING INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (76%); DETROIT, MI, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); TIRE MFG (89%); TIRES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); TESTIMONY (74%); HUMAN FACTORS ENGINEERING (73%); FAMILY (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000



365 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE STRATEGY;
SHIFTING TACTICS, BUSH USES ISSUES TO CONFRONT GORE

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 15

 BODY:
Faced with an opponent who has managed to deflect questions about his character and trustworthiness, Gov. George W. Bush has shifted tactics and begun confronting Vice President Al Gore head-on over the issues, an area long considered to be Mr. Gore's greatest strength.
Day after day this week, from one coast to the other, Mr. Bush has sought to draw contrasts between his positions on Medicare, the environment, education and tax cuts and those of his rival. And to amplify the theme, his campaign began running a new advertisement in 18 swing states comparing the two candidates' programs. 
 "Al Gore's prescription plan forces seniors into a government-run H.M.O.," says the commercial. "Governor Bush gives seniors a choice. Gore says he's for school accountability, but requires no real testing. Governor Bush requires tests and holds schools accountable for results."
The commercial also says that "Gore's targeted tax cut leaves out 50 million people -- half of all taxpayers."
At the same time, Mr. Bush's running mate, former Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, has been using blunt language this week to criticize Mr. Gore's positions on the economy, health care and education. Page A11.
The tack is a change in emphasis that Mr. Bush's advisers say is every bit as important as the Texas governor's recent decision to court voters in more unscripted settings. Just last week, Mr. Bush was hammering at Mr. Gore's personal credibility and character. All year, the emotional center of the Bush campaign has been a pledge to bring "dignity and honor" back to the White House after the Clinton years.
But with some polls showing a slight Gore edge and others showing a statistical dead heat, Mr. Bush's advisers say that he can no longer count on questions of personality and character to carry him into the White House, and that he needs to go after Mr. Gore on the issues that voters put at the top of their list of concerns.
"There was a thought we needed to go much more pointedly at issues and show these differences," one Bush aide said. "Everybody agreed we needed to be much more pointed in drawing contrast."
The Bush campaign argues that it can change the way the public is thinking about the issues, in much the same way that Republicans and their allies dampened enthusiasm for President Clinton's plan for universal health care coverage by persuading the public that the proposal amounted to government intrusion in private lives. The plan died in 1994 and the Republicans went on to win control of Congress.
"Just like President Clinton's failed health care effort in 1993, we believe that the more people look at the details of Al Gore's plans, the less they'll like," said Ari Fleischer, a spokesman for Mr. Bush. "The more they look, the less they'll see."
The new Bush effort reflects a fundamental change in the dynamics of the presidential race.
Throughout the spring and summer polls showed that Mr. Bush had a comfortable lead that was built in large part on personality and on public dismay with President Clinton's personal morality. Polls found that voters had judged Mr. Bush more likable than Mr. Gore and more of a leader.
While Mr. Bush has consistently talked about the issues, holding policy speech after policy speech, he mostly set out his own plans without drawing sharp contrasts to Mr. Gore's proposals. Before the Republican convention, his aides had said the issue speeches were largely designed to bolster impressions of Mr. Bush as a strong leader. That the Republican dared to propose changes in Social Security or that he said he would consider changes in nuclear doctrine made him look like a bold leader willing to challenge the status quo, his aides said.
Then came the Democratic National Convention.
During that critical period, Republicans now acknowledge, Mr. Gore did everything that he needed to do. By choosing Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut as his running mate, he managed to separate himself from Mr. Clinton.
Polls now show that the vice president is as highly regarded as Mr. Bush when it comes to traits like leadership, character and personal popularity.
If both men are viewed as personable and strong leaders, that shifts the focus of the race to the issues. Indeed, a survey of 2,000 voters, released this week by The Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, concluded that "clearly, issues have fueled Gore's gains."
Mr. Bush's advisers say they have not abandoned efforts to raise questions about Mr. Gore's credibility. Mr. Bush, for example, jumped on new reports that federal investigators are examining the Democrats' efforts in 1996 to raise money from a handful of Texas trial lawyers.
But Mr. Bush's aides say he needs to talk about credibility in the context of issues. One strategist close to the Bush campaign said recent focus groups with voters had shown that while Mr. Gore had shaken off questions about his character, there were still doubts about him just below the surface. He said those doubts could be used to push people back into the undecided category.
"The difference between now and seven or eight weeks ago," the strategist said, "is that before you could go straight at credibility issues. You could say, 'Al Gore: how can you believe anything he says?' People would nod and say, 'That's right.' Now people want to hear the comparison on the issues. Then you can bring up credibility and it's more viable."
The Republican strategist said that the shift in perception was subtle but that "it means we won't run away with this election."
"We will have to aggressively compete on the issues," the strategist said.
Another Bush adviser said, "Pointing out issue differences is a way of pointing out credibility differences."
The difficulty for Mr. Bush is that, unlike in the 1980's when issues like crime and taxes and the cold war favored the Republicans, this year's top voters' concerns -- health care and education -- are subjects on which Democrats have long had an edge. Still, Mr. Bush's advisers contend that their candidate has already narrowed the traditional Democratic advantage on education and Social Security. And they say that he can prevail on the issues if he reshapes the public debate.
Ralph Reed, a Bush adviser, said the campaign would now focus on the details of Mr. Gore's plans.
"We'll say he's got bad ideas," Mr. Reed said. "Not just that his ideas are not as good as our ideas, but that they could harm people. People might not get the drugs they need because of price controls."
Mr. Reed was referring to the accusation made by Mr. Bush and by the drug industry that Mr. Gore's proposal to create a new prescription drug benefit inside the traditional Medicare program would create such a government buying monopoly for drugs that it would amount to price controls.
In another line of attack on Mr. Gore's Medicare plan, the Republican National Committee is also running a new advertisement. Speaking of Mr. Gore's prescription proposal, an announcer says, "He says he wants to fight for the people against H.M.O.'s, but his prescription drug plan forces seniors into one H.M.O. selected by the government. Al Gore: federal H.M.O. George Bush: seniors choose."
The reference to H.M.O.'s echoes Mr. Gore's criticism of Mr. Bush's own Medicare plan, which would foster competition between Medicare and private insurers and encourage recipients to opt into government-subsidized private health plans with prescription drug coverage. The Gore campaign says the proposal would force more and more people out of Medicare's traditional fee-for-service program and into health maintenance organizations.
"It's no surprise that they are trying to distort the issue because it's so plain that Bush's plan puts seniors off on the tender mercies of the H.M.O.'s," Douglas Hattaway, a spokesman for Mr. Gore, said in response to the Republican spots. "He knows that's one of the main vulnerabilities of his plan, so he's trying desperately to turn it around."
One question for Mr. Bush is precisely how to frame the contrasts on the issues. He has spent the year presenting himself as a "different kind of Republican" who is less hostile to government than the Republicans who gained control of Congress in 1994.
But some of his appeals recently have been sharply ideological, skating close to the traditional right-left confrontation over the role of government.
Mr. Bush's advisers say he wants to present himself as a conservative reformer who is more market oriented and innovative while painting Mr. Gore as favoring government-run command and control policies that deny individuals choices.
Mr. Bush says he is game for the fight. At a rally in California on Wednesday, he said: "We've got a big debate on the issues during the campaign. And by the way, I love talking about the issues on the campaign, because we stand with the majority of the people when we talk about the issues." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MEDICARE (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (54%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (90%); DICK CHENEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000



366 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: The I.M.F. Will Revamp Its Lending

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 15

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund approved a plan today to overhaul its loan programs and keep more money available for emergencies, a victory for Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, who had been pushing for the changes since late last year.
The global lending agency, based in Washington, will charge higher interest rates and limit the duration of many loans, while discouraging repeat borrowers from relying on the fund for routine aid. The idea is to make certain that plenty of money is on hand to shore up financial systems in emerging markets when panic strikes, as it did in much of the developing world in 1997 and 1998. 
 Some poor nations had resisted the changes. Several delegates to the monetary fund from developing countries have said they feared losing access to the money the fund makes available for medium- and long-term programs aimed at helping nations set up Western-style capital markets or make their currencies fully convertible.
Just last month, the fund's board rejected the same changes in an informal vote, delivering a rare rebuff to the United States, its largest shareholder. But Mr. Summers lobbied other wealthy nations and some major developing countries and persuaded enough board members to reverse that result, people involved in the vote said.
While the overhaul approved today eliminates four lending programs outright and makes several others less attractive to borrowers, the changes preserve the fund's role as a medium-term and, in special cases, long-term lender.
And the fund's antipoverty programs will continue much as before, despite some discussion of eliminating it as largely ineffective and redundant with programs directed by the World Bank, its sister agency.
Mr. Summers has said that investment from private sources so dwarfs official lending in normal times that the fund should keep its resources ready for those rare occasions when private investors lose confidence and stop lending or investing abroad. Those are the times when official lending can make the difference between a mild recession and an economic collapse, he has said.
"This is very much in line with our emphasis throughout the year on the importance of reforming the I.M.F. to ensure that its role is to support, rather than supplant, private capital markets," Mr. Summers said. "We believe these steps go a long way toward creating a more modern I.M.F., one better focused on responding to financial emergencies."
The overhaul falls short of the radical revamping demanded by some of the monetary fund's loudest opponents. Many critics say the fund often seeks to interfere too much in the domestic affairs of borrower nations, while some have accused the fund of ignoring or even fostering corruption in places like Russia.
One Congressional study of the fund recommended that it cease medium- and long-term lending altogether, and limit its role to providing emergency financing to nations that have good track records of sound macroeconomic management. Monetary fund officials have said that changes of that nature would essentially obliterate its role.
The streamlining endorsed today did not go so far. But it did give Mr. Summers ammunition to argue that he had achieved notable results in his push to improve the monetary fund, potentially helping fend off some members of Congress who have demanded a complete rethinking of the fund's mission.
It was unclear today if the overhaul would persuade Congress to release more money for another major Clinton administration priority, debt relief for developing nations. Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, has held up money for debt relief, part of which comes from monetary fund coffers, until the fund agrees to changes that are more sweeping than those announced today.
The fund is considering other ways to make itself more efficient and more responsive to critics. Horst Kohler, the monetary fund's new managing director, plans to disclose his own overhaul plan during the Prague summit meeting of world financial leaders next week.
Mr. Kohler, a former German government minister who took over at the fund last spring, has said he intends to persuade the fund's board to reduce the conditions it attaches to its lending. That would hold the potential for giving borrowing nations more input and control of lending programs.
The fund did not provide details of how it intended to restructure lending programs. But Mr. Summers told reporters that the fund would cut the length of time a country could borrow under its core lending fund to a range of two and a quarter years to 4 years. That is down from a range of three and a quarter years to 5 years. The fund will also reduce the duration of its longest-term loans to 7 years from 10 years.
Mr. Summers did not say how the fund would put higher interest rates into effect. But fund officials said the rates would rise with the size of a loan and be structured to encourage early repayment.
The poorest countries, most of them in Africa, will be spared the brunt of the overhaul. They will not have to pay more for loans from the fund or pay back the loans sooner, Mr. Summers said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. APPROVALS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CORRUPTION (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); RECESSION (61%); INTEREST RATES (57%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000



367 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8
 
Rebels and Sri Lanka Forces In Bitter Struggle for City
Separatist rebels have advanced to near the outskirts of Jaffna, the imagined capital of the Tamil homeland that they have fought over for 17 years. At stake are both the city and the northern peninsula upon which it sits. Humiliated by a string of defeats, government forces have spent more than $360 million on military hardware in the last four months, and this month opened a costly offensive to push the rebels back. Since spring, the fighting has forced a third of the peninsula's 470,000 residents to leave their homes. A1 

Arrest Order for Suharto Kin
Indonesia's President, Abdurrahman Wahid, ordered the arrest of Hutomo Mandela Putra, left, the youngest son of former President Suharto, in connection with a series of deadly bombings, including one on Wednesday that killed 15 people. A8
 
Assault on Philippine Rebels
Military planes and helicopter gunships pounded rebel camps in the southern Philippines, in a surprise attack aimed at rescuing 19 foreign and Filipino hostages, whose status was not immediately clear. A8
 
Fuel Protests Spread in Europe
Protests grew in the Netherlands and Germany, as Britain and Belgium struggled to recover from paralyzing fuel blockades. In Ireland, Spain and Poland, truckers and farmers joined the movement to disrupt travel to express anger at the rising price of highly taxed fuels. A4
 
U.S. and Iran Officials Meet
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and Iran's foreign minister, Kamal Kharazi, joined senior diplomats from six other countries to discuss what to do about Afghanistan and its ruling Taliban. A6
 
Army Report on Kosovo Abuses
The United States Army was said to be preparing to issue a once-classified report saying peacekeepers from the 82nd Airborne had threatened and assaulted civilians. A5
 
Tape Sparks Uproar in Peru
The broadcasting of a videotape that appears to show an aide to President Alberto Fujimori giving a bribe to an opposition lawmaker threw the government into turmoil. A8
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A9-12, 16
 
Republican Ticket Taking New Tack Against Gore
Gov. George W. Bush has shifted his tactics and has begun confronting Vice President Al Gore head-on over the issues, an area long considered to be Mr. Gore's greatest strength. A1
 
Mr. Bush's running mate, Dick Cheney, has also shifted gears, using especially blunt language to criticize Mr. Gore and his proposals. A11
 
A spokeswoman for Mr. Bush said that negotiators for the Bush and Gore campaigns were near an agreement on formats for the three presidential debates, although "some sticking points" remained. A10
 
Pledge on Test Ban Treaty
Vice President Gore told Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee of India that if elected president he would make passage of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty his first foreign policy act, and he urged India to adopt the treaty as well. A11
 
Mr. Gore told an enthusiastic crowd of students at Howard University that improving schools and access to college must become a major federal priority in coming years. A11
 
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, appearing on the Don Imus radio program, rejected the suggestion that it could appear hypocritical for him and Mr. Gore to have raised money from the entertainment industry with a concert the night before. A11
 
Meeting Set on Secrets Case
President Clinton said he did not believe that Wen Ho Lee had been prosecuted because he is ethnically Chinese but would talk to Attorney General Janet Reno about Dr. Lee's treatment and the handling of case. Dr. Lee was freed on Wednesday after pleading guilty to improperly handling classified information. A1
 
Disparate Rulings on Gun Suits
An Illinois judge dismissed Chicago's lawsuit seeking to hold gun makers and retailers responsible for the costs associated with gun violence. But in California, a judge rejected a motion to dismiss similar suits brought by 12 cities and counties. A9
 
Effort to Avoid Deportation
Jorge Amaral Munoz, 39, a witness to the assassination of a Mexican presidential candidate in 1994, has requested asylum in the United States, saying his return to Mexico would jeopardize his life. Mr. Amaral has been charged in Mexico with making false statements to officials. A9
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Mayor Has Procedure To Treat Prostate Cancer
Mayor Giuliani had radioactive seeds implanted in his prostate gland, then appeared six hours later at a news conference, saying the procedure had been "easier than I thought it would be." Doctors said the outlook was excellent. Mr. Giuliani said he would return to work early next week. The seeds are the second phase of his treatment, with hormone therapy the first and external radiation the third. A1
 
Review of Minor Drug Arrests
Police Commissioner Bernard B. Kerik was said to be intensively reviewing antidrug efforts, examining costs and the high percentage of minor arrests made by detectives. B1
 
Bottled-Water Investigation
Complaints of possibly tainted bottled water mounted in the region, even as law enforcement officials said they had not discerned any link or pattern to the reports and had no evidence of bottle tampering. B3
 
Nassau County Submits Budget
With two minutes to spare on a midnight deadline, Nassau County Executive Thomas S. Gulotta delivered a four-year plan to solve the financial crisis that brought the county to the brink of bankruptcy and threatened its autonomy. B1
 
Religion Journal B6
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH
 
Talks on Climate Treaty
OPEC country delegates said any treaty on global warming must include a commitment to compensate oil-producing countries if efforts to cut emissions of heat-trapping gases result in a drop in the use of oil. A4
 
OBITUARIES A13
 
SPORTS D1-12
 
Larger Themes at Olympics
The 27th Summer Games opened in Sydney with a ceremony that addressed Australia's discriminatory treatment of its indigenous people, celebrated the unprecedented number of female Olympians and applauded a march of unity between North Korea and South Korea. A1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-14
 
I.M.F. to Revamp Lending
The global lender decided to overhaul its loan programs and keep more money available for emergencies, actions sought by Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers. C1
 
China Internet Merger
Sohu.com, which went public on the Nasdaq in July, said it would buy ChinaRen.com for 4.4 million shares, or $30 million, about 12.5 percent of Sohu.com's outstanding shares. C1
 
A Pause in Inflation
The Consumer Price Index inched down 0.1 percent in August as energy costs slid 2.9 percent, but analysts said the economic data also held evidence that inflation was edging up, though not at a pace that should worry policy makers just yet. C14
 
Wall Street Bias Suit Settled
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter has settled litigation with a former analyst, Christian Curry, a black man whose complaints about his firing led to an investigation by the Manhattan district attorney and a public apology from the firm. As part of the deal, the firm dropped its countersuit, though a spokesman for the firm asserted, "Christian Curry gets nothing." Mr. Curry said the agreement precluded him from discussing the terms. C14
 
Business Digest C1
 
ARTS & IDEAS B7-16
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: Soft-money travesties; religious freedom in Russia; the mayor's prostate treatment.
Columns: Anthony Lewis.
 
Bridge B13
TV Listings B16
Crossword B14
Weather D12
Public Lives A9
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (93%); INDIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SRI LANKA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SPAIN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); POLAND (79%); BELGIUM (75%); 

STATE: TAMIL NADU, INDIA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILIPPINES (93%); INDIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SRI LANKA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SPAIN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); POLAND (79%); BELGIUM (75%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TALIBAN (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ARREST WARRANTS (74%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); BOMBINGS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); POLITICAL DEBATES (61%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (60%); HELICOPTERS (53%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (89%); DICK CHENEY (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000



368 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: List Shows Corruption Is Lingering

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 14

 BODY:
When a country gets the reputation of being deeply corrupt, it takes a lot of time -- and more than just the election of an anticorruption government -- to improve on its negative image, a watchdog group says.
The group, Transparency International, uses the case of Nigeria to make that point in its 2000 Corruption Perception Index. Nigeria, under President Olusegun Obasanjo, a former advisory council chairman of Transparency International, is still at the bottom of the index, more than a year after the change of government that restored democracy after a period of corrupt military rule. 
 In part, the low ranking is related to a change in this year's index, a measure of perceptions about corruption drawn from surveys by international economic organizations and risk analysts. For the first time, Transparency International, an independent organization founded in 1995 by former World Bank officials to expose corruption among public officials worldwide, used data from a three-year period, not a single year. Change takes time to register, says the report, which was issued on Wednesday.
"Valiant efforts are being made by President Olusegun Obasanjo to force full-scale changes in a country whose people have been robbed by the grand corruption of their past leaders," said Peter Eigen, chairman of Transparency International, which has chapters in more than 70 countries. "But the process of change initiated by the new president is barely 12 months old, and so it is not surprising that Nigeria's C.P.I. score is virtually unchanged."
In the perception of business people, Transparency International found this year that officials in Yugoslavia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Indonesia and Angola, in ascending order after Nigeria, are also at the bottom of the table, which ranks countries on a score of 10 for the least corrupt to zero for the most corrupt. They all have scores below 2.
The 10 countries ranked as least corrupt are, in descending order, Finland, Denmark, New Zealand, Sweden, Canada, Iceland, Norway, Singapore, the Netherlands and Britain. The United States is in 14th place, with 7.8 points on the 10-point scale. It ranks at about the same level as Austria, Hong Kong, Germany and Chile.
The findings are on the Web at www.transparency.org/documents/cpi/bps.html. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (53%); 

COUNTRY: NIGERIA (94%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ICELAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); GERMANY (77%); AUSTRIA (57%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (53%); TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (93%); TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (93%); TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA (94%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ICELAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); GERMANY (77%); AUSTRIA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CORRUPTION (93%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); RANKINGS (75%); RISK MANAGEMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

PERSON: OLUSEGUN OBASANJO (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000



369 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 83 words

HEADLINE: National News Briefs;
Man Sentenced to Life In Florida A&M Bombs

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE, Fla., Sept. 15

 BODY:
An unemployed white embalmer was sentenced today to life in prison for setting off two pipe bombs last year at the predominantly black Florida A&M University.
The man, Lawrence M. Lombardi, 42, who was convicted in June, told Judge Robert L. Hinkle of United States District Court today that he believed that federal agents had made him a scapegoat. 
 The bombings, accompanied by racist phone calls, gripped the university in fear for a month at the beginning of the 1999-2000 year.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (58%); FLORIDA A & M UNIVERSITY (94%); FLORIDA A & M UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA A & M UNIVERSITY (94%); FLORIDA A & M UNIVERSITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SENTENCING (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (84%); 

PERSON: ROBERT L HINKLE (57%); LAWRENCE M LOMBARDI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000



370 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 3;Column 1;Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: Nicaragua's Trade Zone: Battleground for Unions

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

DATELINE: MANAGUA, Nicaragua

 BODY:
The five years that Inez Perez spent sewing jeans at a Taiwanese-owned clothing factory here helped her raise five children on her own. But after going to a party also attended by the leaders of her union, she was abruptly dismissed.
"I was told they were canceling my contract because they didn't want me there," Mrs. Perez said of the Chentex factory. "I worked all week. I used to work all day on Saturday, Sunday. I was a good worker. But it did not matter, because I belonged to a union." 
 Mrs. Perez was among the first to join the Union of Chentex Workers, which has since withered under what its leaders described as the company's efforts to force people to choose between union and job. More than 150 union members among the factory's 1,800 workers were fired after brief strikes over higher wages. Some of the workers were at the party, and it was that fact that apparently prompted Mrs. Perez's dismissal.
Her fate represents something more than than another attempt by management to break up a union. In a world that is eliminating barriers to trade and foreign investment, Mrs. Perez's call for higher pay and a union is viewed here as a threat to the country's economic prosperity.
Taiwan companies like her former employer are the biggest investors in the free-trade zone here. Taiwan's government also built the offices of President Arnoldo Aleman and is financing the Foreign Ministry building. As it has with other Central American nations that support its readmission to the United Nations, Taiwan has given hundreds of millions of dollars in aid to Nicaragua.
Local and international union rights groups see the labor-management conflict here as a vital test for labor rights in the foreign-owned factories that operate in free-trade zones in the developing world.
Their fears that desperately poor countries will tolerate low wages, unsafe workplaces and union busting in the name of free trade and foreign investment sparked angry confrontations last year at the Seattle meeting of the World Trade Organization and are quite likely to resurface this month at the International Monetary Fund meeting in Prague.
"This is the human face to globalization," said Charles Kernaghan, executive director of the National Labor Committee, a group that led a group of religious leaders to meet the Chentex workers in August. "If this union goes under, it's curtains for a lot of other places."
But Carlos Yin, an administrator at Chentex, which is owned by a consortium called the Nien Hsing Textile Company, denied that the company had broken any laws or underpaid its workers. He said that it had granted a 25 percent wage increase this year and that anyone who had left the union had done so voluntarily, while many others who had left the company had done so to earn severance pay.
Chentex workers and labor advocates scoffed at that, saying Nicaraguans want to work, considering the poverty and unemployment visible on every street corner, scenes where men who sell candy compete with children who wash windshields.
Mr. Kernaghan's group is known for calling attention to the sweatshop conditions in a Honduran factory that made clothing for the Kathie Lee Gifford label. He said the Chentex workers, who are paid according to a table that sets the cost of each step in sewing a pair of jeans, make $65 to $124 a month.
Using documents that workers took out of the factory, as well as shipping information, Mr. Kernaghan determined that 50 cents' worth of labor went into sewing a pair of jeans that sells for $22 in the United States. The increase sought by the workers, he said, would add 8 cents to the cost of each pair.
"Everybody assumes the labor is cheap," he said. "When you put 8 cents to it, people start to go nuts. I think most American people are decent. I never met anybody who would put up with conditions like this."
Those conditions are reflected in the rickety house where Cristina Downs lives with her husband, Christian Cinco, and their 2-year-old, Christy. It is windowless, a sort of toolshed of plywood, zinc panels and plastic sheets, with a dirt floor and no room to move around. Ms. Downs said she was discharged from Chentex for not producing enough.
Her husband works, often seven days a week, at another factory owned by the same company, a situation that allows the couple to splurge on Sundays and share a pound of chicken for dinner, she said.
"The only thing is work," Ms. Downs said. "But all we make goes to pay for food. All you get is mistreatment."
Former and current workers said the Taiwanese managers routinely shouted at workers, sometimes hitting them on the head or throwing flawed garments in their faces. Many workers said the only way to eke out survival wages was to work overtime, which in any case was often forced on them, sometimes in 24-hour shifts.
"Nicaragua is being colonized again," Roberto Manzanares, a fired union leader, said. "Here we have 60 percent unemployment, and the companies take advantage of that to do whatever they want. They can fill the vacuum of workers, because so many more are waiting outside."
When the union formed two years ago, it affiliated with the Sandinista Workers Confederation. Although workplace conditions improved, union leaders said, the company refused to negotiate a raise or attend arbitration sessions at the Labor Ministry. Instead, the company negotiated with another union, one affiliated with the Confederation of Nicaraguan Workers, a group widely believed to be under company control.
Mr. Yin, the administrator, described the Sandinista union leadership as politically motivated.
"They have all the Sandinistas in here," Mr. Yin said. "You know Sandinistas? It's like Communism. If they work or not, they want the same salary. We come from a free country. People work hard, they earn more. People work less, they earn less."
Although Mr. Yin suggested to a reporter that he visit the factory, the invitation was later withdrawn.
In April, the union held a one-hour work stoppage and later a two-day strike. Soon, workers said, the company dismissed the union leaders and began pressing others to leave the group. The leaders appealed the dismissals. But company and labor officials said they were fair, because the leaders had called the strike without consulting the employees and had engaged in sabotage against the factory.
The inspector general of the Labor Ministry, Emilio Noguera, said conditions at Chentex and the other factory, in Las Mercedes, were generally not as bad as critics contended. Mr. Noguera defended the union leaders' dismissals, saying outside groups were paying them. Labor groups, he added, were motivated by wanting to protect American manufacturers who cannot compete with Nicaragua's cheaper labor costs.
"The companies here have a fear of unions, not because they represent the rights of workers, but because they are forming organizations that are more about doing business than defending the rights of workers," Mr. Noguera said. "It is logical that if I am being paid to complain, it's better to do that than to find a solution to the conflict."
Mr. Kernaghan said his goal was fair wages and good working conditions, not forcing consumers to buy American clothes or chasing the factories out of Nicaragua. He acknowledged that the latest attack on the union could affect Nicaragua's eligibility for the Clinton administration's Caribbean Basin Initiative.
Mr. Kernaghan has pledged to continue pressuring the Nicaraguan government, although he may have to do so from a distance. After his trip in August, he and other members of the delegation, including a Roman Catholic auxiliary bishop, the Most Rev. Thomas Gumbleton of Detroit, were told that they would not be allowed return because they had incited violence. The allegations were made by officials in the local press, even though no violence was reported during the visit.
Despite Taiwan's close ties, members of the human rights committee of the National Assembly who wanted to investigate conditions at Las Mercedes were denied entry.
"We heard many complaints about abuses in the free zone and about how human rights are violated, physical mistreatment, psychological mistreatment and violations of the workers' fundamental labor rights," the head of the committee, Nelson Artola, said. "The business people in the free zone apply their own laws, violating our laws and the Constitution. They do and undo what they want with the support of the Nicaraguan government."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 2000, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday described the life of textile workers in Nicaragua. It quoted Charles Kernaghan, executive director of the National Labor Committee, an international group that is trying to organize the workers for better wages and conditions. The article was illustrated with a photograph of dozens of women walking across a field, presumably on the way to work at a Nicaraguan textile plant. The credit line attributed the picture to Mr. Kernaghan.
With an article about a labor-management conflict, The Times should have relied on an impartial source for photographs; failing that, the caption should have specified that the source was an interested party.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cristina Downs, whom Chentex fired, and her daughter, Christy. (David Gonzalez/The New York Times); Thousands work in a free-trade zone at Las Mercedes, Nicaragua, which includes a Nien Hsing Textile plant. (Charles Kernaghan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 1451 (TAIEX) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (84%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (94%); TAIWAN (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NIEN HSING TEXTILE CO LTD (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NICARAGUA (94%); TAIWAN (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. GARMENT WORKERS (90%); APPAREL MFG (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (75%); TEXTILES (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); TAX INCENTIVES (66%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: INEZ PEREZ (83%); CRISTINA DOWNS (59%); CHARLES KERNAGHAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000



371 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 80; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 2804 words

HEADLINE: His Only Address Was an E-Mail Account

BYLINE: By Emily Nussbaum; Emily Nussbaum is a contributing writer for Lingua Franca.

 BODY:

Name: Alex Aborlleile
Age: 19
Coming from: Philadelphia
Looking for: Escape
 
When Alex Aborlleile arrived on a bus from Philadelphia in March, he walked into Port Authority carrying a couple of dollars, a backpack and a bag of oranges. He was 18. A skinny Cuban-American kid with Bambi eyes, he wandered onto Eighth Avenue, merging with the crowd on the sidewalk. Like most new arrivals, he was stunned by his first sight of Midtown Manhattan. "My mouth was agape," he recalls. "It was huge." Alex had no place to stay, no friends, no family. All he had was a plan, the same one he'd been following for almost a year. 
 Alex asked a passer-by for directions, and after several false starts, found his way to 42nd Street and Fifth Avenue. He walked up the immense marble steps into the grand foyer of the New York Public Library, with its swooping archways and glittering chandeliers. Upstairs, in a wood-paneled room, Alex found a bank of computers. He logged onto the Web. Since running away from home at 16, Alex had amassed more than 10 free e-mail accounts, with screen names like "ImpishBoi" and "ElusiveObserver." Within an hour, he was chatting with an N.Y.U. student, angling an invitation to his dorm room. He got it. That night, when the two of them traded sex for housing, it was a subtle hustle neither one acknowledged out loud.
It was also precisely the kind of bargain Alex had come to New York to escape. "I wanted to start over," he explained several weeks later at the Acme cafe on Great Jones Street. He raised an eyebrow and added dryly: "I got morals, you might say." Alex's forehead was speckled with glitter, and he gulped glass after glass of water, trying to rehydrate after a late night. New York, he said, was the ideal place for reinvention. It was an artist's city, a place where a person could transform himself with little more than wit, Holly Golightly flair and an eye for beauty. He'd carried this fantasy with him since he left his family's turbulent home in Miami and began moving from place to place: Ann Arbor, Cleveland, Seattle, Philadelphia.
Such alchemy was harder than he had expected. In Philadelphia, certainly, his life had been spinning out of control. He was taking drugs, he'd been robbed, his heart had been broken. Darkest of all, Alex had been sexually assaulted: he had changed his mind halfway through a hustling session, but the john wouldn't let him leave. In a panic, Alex called his mother one night, after months of no contact. She agreed to pay for art school, and he faxed her the forms. But as she had many times before, she broke her promise. Three days later, he was on the bus to New York.
Manhattan, he imagined, could be his final destination. He would scramble at first, then apply to the Fashion Institute of Technology. He could make beautiful things, become something special himself. But first he needed a place to stay.
The next day, he had one: the apartment of another Internet connection, a closeted city official living on the Upper West Side who wanted a "rent boy." He could make some quick cash, Alex figured, and then quit prostitution forever. "It's a very degrading thing," he explained. "You can't think about the person. The person's not attractive. So I focus on the pure physical sensation. I keep my eyes closed, and it's all drama, like backstage at the Emmys. Go Camera 1, go Camera 2."
Alex had known he was gay since his early teens. But it was only seven months earlier, on his 18th birthday, that he had experienced -- all at the same wild party in Ann Arbor -- his first kiss, his first sexual encounter and his first toke of marijuana. The second time he had sex, he got paid for it.
Doing sex for trade always made Alex feel numb and nihilistic. The uptown arrangement turned out to be "not happy," so after three days, he ducked out the door, taking only the money he'd earned. Then he walked downtown to Washington Square Park, bought five $20 bags of ketamine and took them all at once. He needed to get high to blot out the rent-boy experience, Alex said -- but also to think. "When you take K, you have five minutes to find someplace, or you'll fall down. But it's also the 'What am I doing with my life?' drug, the oracle drug."
Alex woke up without having arrived at any answers. It was cold, and he had no place to go. Disoriented, and feeling sick, he wandered into the West Village. Security was tighter than in other cities, where he'd been able to sneak into public buildings. He was stuck outside. One night Alex found a deep vestibule on Perry Street near a Laundromat and curled up inside. (A car circled the block for hours, a man inside staring out at him.) Another night, he huddled in the concrete alcoves of the waste-disposal facility across the street from St. Vincent's Hospital. Sometimes he'd grab a cup of coffee in a diner, then linger as long as they'd let him stay.
Alex struggled to get by on the streets. For food, he walked all the way up from the West Village to Grand Central and loaded up on free samples from Zaro's bakery, but mostly he didn't eat. One afternoon, he hooked up with another Internet source, a freelance writer in his 30's who lived on 14th Street near Alphabet City. The man talked about boys he had slept with, but the two did not have sex; Alex got the impression that the man felt sorry for him. He offered Alex a shower and agreed to store some of his stuff. But Alex couldn't stay the night: the writer shared the apartment with his girlfriend, a publicist.
Alex was starting to unravel. He didn't want to turn any more tricks, but he didn't know what else he could do. Then one April morning, wandering around Little West 12th Street, his hands purple with cold, Alex looked up and saw the sign for the Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center. The building was closed until 9, but a staff member let him in, gave him a subway token and referred him to Safe Space, a shelter for homeless teenagers located in Midtown. Desperate as Alex was, it was a struggle for him to walk through the door. "I have this problem accepting help," he explained, then paused. "Taking charity means you have to admit you're at your lowest point."
For the rest of April, alex stayed in the shelter, a brightly-painted place with cartoon hamburgers stenciled on the wall. Although he liked most of the counselors, the conditions were seedy: "It was just depressing, to wake up on this purple mat, with all these fat people breathing around you." And many of the residents traded in drugs and sex, violating house rules. Still, it was better than the streets.
And then he got a major break: the counselors at Safe Space informed him about a new program called Green Chimneys, which provides group housing for gay teenagers. The small, federally financed project offered food, housing and training in "life skills." He could stay in a free apartment for 18 months, provided he followed house rules, like a curfew. He moved into an apartment on West 109th Street the next day. As it turned out, the kitchen was overrun with cockroaches, and he hated his suite mates. But he made his own room homey and distinctive, with plants, stickers on the walls and the guts of various art projects in progress, including a parasol gleaming with leftover MetroCards and forks molded into anthropomorphic shapes. Next to his bed, he stuck a Post-it note reading, "In case of anger, rip off wall and tear into tiny pieces."
He even found a job, at a hip SoHo shop that sold kitschy toys. During the evenings, he would hang out at the West Village piers, which he had discovered were a magnet for black and Latino gay teenagers -- some of them living at home, others homeless or bunking at friends' apartments. It was a wild, fun scene, and he was popular there, "the pier god." In contrast to his wary relationship with tricks, Alex was flamboyantly romantic when it came to boys his own age. In early May, he found himself falling for a "beautiful, blond 16-year-old boy." One Ecstasy-fueled night, they had anal sex. It was Alex's first time. "He basically stole my last scrap of innocence," he said.
Soon afterward, Alex discovered that the 16-year-old had since slept with a mutual friend. Distraught, Alex went on a binge, ending up in the Port Authority, sobbing and writing a love letter as strangers steered around him. At 7 a.m., he wandered disconsolately through Times Square. As he had many times before, he felt tugged under by depression. His new romance was dissolving. Although he had met many people in New York, he felt he had no real friends. Alex had asked Safe Space for psychological help, and a doctor prescribed Prozac. But he fenced the pills.
Then in May, the owner of the SoHo store fired him when, Alex says, he was "way too open" about his personal history. Although he felt he was good at charming people in job interviews, Alex worried that his past might prevent people from ever trusting him. "I'm a Homo Hispanic Whore," he said. "That's a triple threat." He was tempted by trades that weren't so picky, like the booming Ecstasy economy. Selling pills at parties, he mused, could one day pay for tuition at F.I.T.
Why not apply for a scholarship? "I have a real problem with legal venues, student loans and all that," he said. "I don't like owing money." Turning tricks or offering drugs, he reasoned, might be dangerous, but at least he was providing a service. He'd never panhandled. "That's even lower than accepting charity; you'd have to be really, really desperate. And the looks that you'd get panhandling -- it's disturbing enough to make me not want to beg. You're setting yourself up for judgment."
After months of walking everywhere, Alex was starting to feel more at home in the city. His days began to take on odd, floating patterns: the pier (unless he was avoiding someone), Times Square, hours browsing in a Barnes & Noble. He went to bargain movies at Worldwide Cinema on 50th Street, and sat in midtown cafes analyzing the crowds. "At Lincoln Center," he said with awe, "You can smell the rich people." He loved Chelsea's coffee shops, but the muscle boys intimidated him. The West Village was his favorite, the "gayborhood." He fantasized about owning an elegant apartment there. Perhaps he could get himself a "patron" -- someone to support him and his art, but with whom he wouldn't have to have sex.
But it was hard to work toward a West Village future. Right now, everyone else had money but him; he hated his "poverty life." One July afternoon, he ran his finger down the shelves at a Vitamin Shoppe on the Upper West Side, talking about how easy it was to turn herbal supplements and cold remedies into sellable street drugs. Just melt them together on the stove, he explained as a wary store owner eyed him from a distance. As for his own drug use, Alex made a shifting series of rules: no drugs in the apartment (an offense that could get him kicked out of Green Chimneys); selling but no using; pot but no Ecstasy. But it was tough to stick to the rules when life was so hard.
And then there was the contradictory lure of hustling, a lure that sharpened with each romantic collapse, each friendship gone sour. Maybe, he worried, his boyish sexiness was all he had to offer. One day on the pier, flipping through the local bar magazine HX, he saw an ad for a job performing erotic massage. He called, and the owner invited him to Chelsea for an interview. The discreet office was luxurious, with health-club accommodations. He'd be slipping, he knew, into his old ways. But he'd also get paid $100 per shift, plus tips -- a lot of cash, enough to afford taxis and dinners out. He took the job.
The owner assigned him a shift later that week. But before Alex could keep his appointment, a crisis intervened: the Green Chimneys counselors threatened to toss him out after he missed curfew several days in a row. Sobbing hysterically, he threw himself on their mercy. "I told them: 'All I want is structure! I want to do good!' "he said. "I told them about the massage job, and they talked me out of it." ("Some kids pretend to be upset, but Alex was really upset," recalled Gary Mallon, the director of Green Chimneys. "He's a smart kid and kind of delicate too. And you know, some kids need a third or fourth chance to get it right.") Alex vowed to stay off drugs and, despite his misgivings, to apply for a scholarship.
He felt confident that once he got into art school, he would ace it. Though he had dropped out of high school -- it had been impossible to study at home, he said, and he was too depressed to concentrate -- he read voraciously. He would bubble over on subjects like Rene Magritte or Japanese comics. His heavy black notebook was filled with sketches and ideas, as well as eccentric coinages like "plastick" (with a "k" for kitsch), a word to describe his own developing aesthetic.
Such talk could sound like bravado or pretension. "I am an artist," Alex once said stiffly of his plans to attend F.I.T. "My life is art." But there was something impressive about the way he refused to see himself through the eyes of others -- as a criminal, as someone negligible or pathetic. Why be meek about his past, or pretend it hadn't happened? Instead, he was trying to view it all as "material," as a New York adventure that would someday pay off creatively. If he was going to stand out from the crowd anyway, he wanted to draw that border as a dramatic, ink-black line.
Gay Pride Day, June 25, was Alex's 19th birthday. Alex had planned to march with Safe Space as their "condom fairy." But it was broiling hot, and he ended up sleeping in. He wasn't feeling especially festive, anyway. He received only one birthday present: a greeting card from his mother, with a terse message he interpreted as "Have a nice life." Alex ceremonially tore it in half, then lit a match, and when the card flared out of control, tamped it out in the kitchen sink.
More and more, Alex thought of his separation from his family as a healthy thing. His mother was abusive and untrustworthy. His first memory was of his stepfather, a wedding videographer his mother had married when Alex was 3, throwing him across the room. The violence continued throughout his childhood. As for his biological father, Alex had never met him: "All I know about him is that he was an illegal alien with bad teeth," he explained mordantly.
Three weeks later, on July 14, Alex sat in the lobby of the Adolescent Health Center at Mt. Sinai hospital. He was waiting for the results of an H.I.V. test. "It's just something you don't want to think about," he murmured. Despite the prostitution, his behavior had been fairly low-risk, he estimated. Sitting in an office decorated with children's palm prints in red, blue and yellow paint, Alex was visibly nervous.
Finally, he was called in. When he emerged, he was glowing with excitement. "Check it out! Check it out!" he called jubilantly to a nurse he knew, waving the form in her face. "I don't have H.I.V.!" She congratulated him. "After 200 penises, you know, you'd be worried, too." Alex grinned. He loved to shock people with such statements.
But over granola pancakes at a local diner, he was more somber. "Yeah, it's a huge relief," he said slowly. "It's, like, a clean bill of health. It means you actually survived the past, you can leave the past without any permanent scarring." Once again, things were looking up. He was set to take the test for his G.E.D. He was meeting with a representative from F.I.T. He was applying for jobs: Urban Outfitters, Old Navy. And he'd been drug-free for two weeks, staying away from the piers, which he now called "the isle of the Lotus Eaters." Still, to make extra money, he was toying with participating in an Ecstasy deal -- involving a strain called Aladdin's Lamp. And he hadn't written much lately in the artist's notebook he carried around; it was frustrating, he said, planning art projects he couldn't afford to make.
Would Alex be able to remake himself? It was easy to forget that all of this -- the hustling, the drugs, the romances -- had happened in less than a year. Despite everything, he seemed oddly unjaded. There was a playfulness to him, an enthusiasm that was almost nave. He was still searching for his imagined set of friends, he said: his "little cognoscenti."
In any case, Alex wasn't sorry he came to New York. His life, he explained, was like a glass of water. Sometimes it would get shaken, but eventually the surface would turn smooth. "It's perfect here," he said, with a hopeful grin. "It's like, you can be honest, be who you are, whoever you are. And because there are so many people, doing so many kinds of things, in the end, people will respect you for it. That's the freedom."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Part Midnight Cowboy, part Holly Golightly: Alex searches for a new life in New York. (Edward Keating)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENT HOUSING (72%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (67%); SEX OFFENSES (64%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (61%); 

PERSON: ALEX ABORLLEILE AGE (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



372 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 41; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Saturday Gladiators

BYLINE: By Morris Berman; Morris Berman is the author of "The Twilight of American Culture" and "Wandering God: A Study in Nomadic Spirituality."

 BODY:

 BEER AND CIRCUS
 How Big-Time College Sports
 Is Crippling Undergraduate Education.
 By Murray Sperber.
 322 pp. New York: Henry Holt & Company. $26. 
 THE title is from Juvenal: panem et circenses, bread and circuses (that is, public spectacles). Looking out over the bleak cultural landscape of Rome in the late first and early second centuries A.D., the great satirist concluded that these were the only two things that seemed to interest the majority of his countrymen. How different, Murray Sperber seems to be asking, are things for the American empire today?
It's an interesting question, and although Sperber doesn't pursue the comparison much beyond his Juvenalian title, the material he collects in "Beer and Circus" is very suggestive. American college students, particularly at big-time universities, are caught up in a triad of alcohol, spectator sports and partying, which, Sperber tells us, now occupies the "academic" career of vast numbers of undergraduates. This is in turn tied to the promotion of research at the expense of teaching; huge lecture classes (typically taught by teaching assistants); high levels of cheating; rampant grade inflation; and a cynical, if tacit, "nonaggression pact" between students and faculty to stay out of each other's way. In an argument that comes fairly close to conspiracy theory, Sperber asserts that none of this is accidental. Since the big-time universities aim to acquire status and prestige through expensive research programs, they can no longer afford to give the majority of their undergraduates a meaningful education. Hence, they substitute beer and circus to keep the students distracted and the tuition dollars rolling in, in a way that is perhaps no less cynical than the bread-and-circus constellation of ancient Rome.
The result? More than 56 percent of our college graduates are unable to calculate the change from $3 after buying a 60-cent bowl of soup and a $1.95 sandwich. Almost 40 percent take no courses in English or American literature, and 58 percent never study a foreign language. Nearly 31 percent have never taken a math course, and huge numbers of them cannot read and understand a simple set of directions. Add to this the fact that a de facto open admissions policy is now widespread throughout the United States, such that more than 80 percent of American colleges and universities admit virtually all their applicants, who are then processed through to what can only be called meaningless degrees.
How did we come to such a pass? asks Sperber, a professor of English and American studies at Indiana University. Sports, he claims, is the real culprit in this drama, in the form of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, which has the ability to force schools into enlarging their sports programs and facilities. By making a deal in 1979 with the new cable network, ESPN, the N.C.A.A. was able to generate "wall-to-wall media coverage of college sports," Sperber writes. "This marked a new phenomenon in higher education, one that subsequently became central to student life." Education, not surprisingly, got left behind in the dust.
It is hard to read Sperber's book without having a sinking feeling about the future of American culture. He has managed to document one facet of our national decline in painstaking detail, and the result is an admirable, timely and profoundly disturbing work. Yet in the end, the argument does not really show causation. It is more a case of confluence of factors than one of direct connection, and Sperber occasionally says as much. Thus at one point he refers to the link between sports and the sorry state of undergraduate education as one of "synergy," tells us that his results "should be regarded as anecdotal, not scientific, evidence" and states that it is impossible to separate cause and effect.
He also acknowledges that the "problems in American undergraduate education transcend big-time college sports," but says that he has chosen to focus on the latter rather than try to write about "the whole mess." These are important qualifications; the problem is that "the whole mess" cannot be ignored without obfuscating what the deeper causes -- which I believe are structural in nature -- really are. These causes emerge in a rather desultory fashion in the book, but at least they are there, ineluctably drawing the reader to a different conclusion than the one Sperber specifically intended.
The problem here is not sports, but the increasing domination of our educational system by the massive corporate-commercial culture that has consolidated itself during the last 15 or 20 years. When college enrollments began to drop in the late 1970's, schools started marketing themselves, and within a few years were referring to students as "customers" and then "consumers." Obtaining these "buyers" became paramount, and admissions recruiters began to use corporate language as a matter of course ("closing a deal" with a prospective student). Open admissions, grade inflation, big sports programs, huge lecture classes, the pursuit of research fame, the building of student entertainment centers on campus to the neglect of libraries and classrooms, the rapid expansion of university administrations -- all of this moves within the orbit of the new corporate-commercial paradigm that has come to define the United States over the last two decades.
That Sperber does not really regard the sports-education link as causal can be seen in his six proposals at the conclusion of the book: five of them have nothing whatever to do with sports. Thus he suggests that the large public universities should "slim down," losing millions of students, and "offer quality undergraduate education to all students who legitimately qualify for entrance"; that faculty should be hired and rewarded primarily for teaching undergraduates and that all undergraduates be required to attain a minimum score on the Graduate Record Examination before being allowed to graduate. The only proposal Sperber offers relevant to the sports question is that of eliminating athletic scholarships in favor of need-based grants.
Another quotation for which Juvenal became famous besides "bread and circuses," and one that is equally relevant to us today, is Quis custodiet ipsos custodes? Who will guard the guards themselves? This, I believe, is the real key to the situation Sperber describes, because beer and circus are only the byproduct of a culture that has been dumbed down by the triumph of the corporate-commercial way of life. Until we address Juvenal's question, very little of a substantive nature can be done about sports, education or indeed much else in America of the 21st century. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SPORTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CLASSICS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); MATHEMATICS (75%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (73%); PARAEDUCATORS (72%); LITERATURE (68%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (61%); 

PERSON: MURRAY SPERBER (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



373 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 25; Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: Books in Brief: Fiction

BYLINE: By Maureen McLane

 BODY:

 WILD KIDS
 Two Novels About Growing Up.
 By Chang Ta-chun.
 Columbia University, $22.95. 
 In two jaunty, disturbing novellas from Taiwan, the author's first work to appear in English, Chang Ta-chun presents us with disaffected adolescents who roam city streets, complain about school, fantasize about gangster life and wear Chicago Bulls T-shirts. The global economy seems to have brought us a global literary type: the wily, bruised, commodity-loving, prematurely sophisticated teenager, with hapless parents and teachers in tow. These slim narratives, gracefully translated by Michael Berry, are related less by a unified authorial persona than by their similar settings in 1980's Taiwan, their knowing, offhanded dissection of family malaise and their notable fascination with storytelling. In "My Kid Sister," the 20-something narrator artfully reminisces about his lifelong friendship with his volatile sister, who as a child became his muse, critic and co-conspirator. The occasionally wisecracking tone does not diminish the delicacy of their relationship, and the story's end is stunningly, perfectly abrupt. "Wild Child" features a teenage runaway who stumbles into a gambling den and finds himself involved in gangster mayhem. Brutal, pointedly anesthetizing, jaggedly written and willfully disorienting, this second novella is heavily and knowingly indebted to gangster movies and pop culture. Whether these stories merely chronicle or more profoundly illuminate a slice of Taiwanese culture and fantasy is hard to say; Chang's scope and achievement will be more obvious for American readers when more of his work is translated. What is clear is that in Taipei, as elsewhere in contemporary fiction, the kids are not all right. Maureen McLane
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (72%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (78%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); CHICAGO BULLS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); CHICAGO BULLS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); FILM GENRES (65%); 

PERSON: CHANG TA-CHUN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



374 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 33; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 9-17-00;
A Street Grows In Brooklyn

BYLINE: By Diane Cardwell; Diane Cardwell is an editor at the magazine.

 BODY:
A few years ago, when I moved near Smith Street -- a dusty stretch running through the Brooklyn neighborhoods of Boerum Hill and Carroll Gardens -- it seemed happily mired in the 1950's. Dotted with members-only social clubs and old men playing cards in front of shuttered storefronts, the area felt untouched by the relentless pace of Manhattan life. That's what persuaded me, and many people like me, to trade in a hip downtown address for space, charm and refuge across the river.
It wasn't an easy decision to make. In New York, more than in most cities, the neighborhood you choose plays a disproportionate role in the persona you project. But not only does the place you live influence the way you develop as a social being; the neighborhoods themselves are ever-changing entities as well, each with its own unfolding narrative. Moving from place to place, we play a kind of identity hopscotch, trying to figure out which area is likely to suit who we are, or who we hope someday to be, before the neighborhood morphs right out from under us and sets us to combing the real estate ads again. When I moved to SoHo, I was out all the time at the chic bistros and lounges that lined every street. But by the time I left for Carroll Gardens, being in the midst of of New York's throbbing nightlife no longer seemed as important; making a home with a measure of grace and quiet did. But those distinctions, as it turned out, weren't as far apart as I had anticipated. 
 Not long after moving, I noticed that a store called Refinery had opened up, a cool handbag shop of the sort you might have seen on Ludlow Street in the early 90's: small, idiosyncratic, lightly overpriced. A block away, there was Astro Turf, specializing in just-above-kitsch home furnishings. Soon came Patois, a small bistro that was the first place in the 'hood that served lettuces other than iceberg and romaine. Then Frida's Closet, where the designer herself sewed sweet little cotton dresses for -- imagine! -- under $200.
There was just enough gentrification to brighten the area, not enough to attract the tourists. By the end of last year, you could pop out for a microbrew at Quench, stop in for tuna tartare at Saul (or Grocery or Smith Street Kitchen), pick up a funky top at Crush or fall asleep during a myofacial aromatherapy massage at Area. It felt like the right place at the right time, an affordable neighborhood with just enough cachet to feel happening. Maybe things were starting to get a bit precious, but compared with Park Slope, which had gone this route a decade earlier, it was still an arty college town. And compared with Manhattan -- where the streets were clogged with S.U.V.'s, the restaurants filled with 27-year-old paper millionaires -- it was the frontier.
But then, somehow, the frontier receded, and my quasi-bohemian settlement began feeling less and less like a secret. Marquet Patisserie opened an elegant tea-and-madeleine salon that was indistinguishable from the one in Manhattan. Patois became so popular -- and not just with locals, either -- it expanded into the space next door.
And then there was Halcyon, a groovy cafe-nightclub-thrift-shop-bar-rec-room that attracted kids from the neighborhood and coolhunters from Manhattan and L.A. to observe them in their native environment. As soon as I saw them I knew it had all gone too far. I waited for the end.
It came, one summer morning, standing in the dappled sunlight on the corner of President and Smith, tall and blond and eyeing a map: Germans. My sublime little neighborhood had become just another tourist destination, a real estate category, a stop on the party train. It was as if the strip had barreled into awkward, paunchy middle age before it got its braces off.
I can't begrudge the local businesspeople their successes, or the local landlords, many of whom toughed it out during the 80's when the vacancy rate was 27 percent and the sidewalks were caving in. But how much longer will they be the beneficiaries of this boom? "What's nice is that it's still local people doing things on this street," says Elizabeth Beer, who owns Hoyt & Bond, a mother-child clothing shop. "But I really worry about the arrival of the chain stores."
Even Bette Stoltz, who, as executive director of the South Brooklyn Local Development Corporation, was instrumental in helping the area out of its economic slump, says she feels an occasional pang. "There's always this fear, as people retire and sell their buildings, that the next property owner, who paid a lot more for the building, needs to make more, gets greedier," she says. "But nothing stays the same. That's the way things are."
A year from now, who knows what Smith Street will look like? A town-house condo development is replacing a community garden, and lofts across from an old cheese factory are selling for $600,000. Barring a dot-com implosion, the pressure to create more high-yuppie, kid-friendly services will continue to mount.
I won't be there to see it. Smith Street has outgrown me. I no longer derive much satisfaction from living among the trendy hordes, and the area no longer qualifies for urban homesteading. Last month I gave up my apartment and found another in a less glamorous part of Brooklyn, one that seems resistant to the forces of runaway gentrification. But I could be wrong. Not far away lurks the Brooklyn Navy Yard. It's an aging blight at the moment, but an aging blight with a waterfront view of the Manhattan skyline, and, perhaps, cause for a twinkle in some developer's eye.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Barbel Schmidt)
 
Chart: "Attack of the Charming Bistros"
Smith Street's brand-new restaurant row
Banania Cafe (Contemporary French)
Boerum Hill Food Company (New American)
The Grocery (New American)
Patois (French)
Pepe Viola (Italian)
Saul (French)
Smith Street Kitchen (Fusion)
Sur (Argentine)
Uncle Pho (French Vietnamese)
Victory Kitchen (New American)
Ytournel (French)
Zaytoons (Middle Eastern)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH BROOKLYN LOCAL DEVELOPMENT CORP (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RESTAURANTS (87%); CITY LIFE (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); RETAILERS (71%); CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (68%); MASSAGE SERVICES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



375 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 46; Column 4; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 12 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 9-17-00: The Economics of New York Life;
The Price We Pay

BYLINE: By Andy Newman

 BODY:
How the cost of living in New York has changed in the last decade.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table:

"Housing"	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 		1991	1999	%Ch actual	%Ch inflation		 	 	 	 	Manhattan 1 BR	$1,135	$1,925	70%	38%		 	 	 	 	Brooklyn 1 BR	$525	$670	28%<check	4%		 	 	 	 	Queens 1 BR	$605	$725	20%	-2%		 	 	 	 	The Bronx 1 BR	$700	$800	14%	-7%		 	 	 	 	Realtor's fee (Man)	$2,043	$3,465	70%	38%	
 
"Daily Life" 1990 2000 Ch actual %Ch inflation
 
Cab ride from JFK Airport to Midtown Manhattan $27 +tip $30 +tip 11% -16%
 
Phone hookup $52.70* $55 4% -17%
 
Cable-TV (installation and one month of basic service, in Manhattan) $48.90 $91.30 87% 42%
 
Twin futon $59 $59 0% -24%
 
Extermination (for 1 BR or 2 BR apartment, Magic Exterminating Co.) $160 $250 56% 18%
 
Subway commute (twice a day for 30 days) $69 $63 -9% -31%
 
New York State driver's license $8 $5 -38% -53%
 
1 gallon unleaded gasoline (New York regional average) $1.08 $1.67 55% 17%
 
Orange juice (half-gallon Tropicana at C-Town) $2.29 $2.99 31% -1%
 
30 group English lessons (at Berlitz) $399 $399 0% -24%
 
Zagat Survey $8.95 $11.95 20%-19%
 
Movie ticket $7.50 $9.50 27% -4%
 
Suggested admission to Metropolitan Museum of Art $6 $10 67% 26%
 
Yankees ticket (field box) $12 $32 167% 102%
 
Nathan's hot dog (including tax) $1.72 $2.11 23% -7%
 
Prix fixe dinner at La Cote Basque $55 $65 18% -10%
 
New York Health and Racquet Club 1-year membership $956.80 $1,395.00 46% 11%
 
Round-trip bus ticket on Hamptons jitney $22 $43 95% 48%
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (58%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



376 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 15; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Fare Wars in Australia's Skies

BYLINE: By SUSAN GOUGH HENLY

 BODY:
THE recent arrival of two new Australian carriers, Impulse Airlines and Virgin Blue, ending the longtime duopoly of Ansett and Qantas, has dramatically cut domestic air fares in the country. On a one-way flight between Sydney and Melbourne, the regular economy fare is $184, at 1.74 Australian dollars to the United States dollar; in recent weeks, seats on that route have been selling for as little as $38.
Besides government deregulation, the Sydney Olympic Games can also take a little credit for reducing the cost of flights. All four carriers advertised specials because business travel, the airlines' staple, was expected to dry up during the Games, which opened Friday and will close Oct. 1. 
 Until Oct. 8, the one-way fare between Sydney and Brisbane (as well as Sydney and Melbourne) can be as low as $38; and between Melbourne and Brisbane, $57, with no advance purchase and no round trip required. Those are far lower than the round-trip 14-day advance purchase fares of $173 between Sydney and Melbourne or $282 between Melbourne and Brisbane, both of which require a Saturday-night stay. Compared with regular economy fares, they are cheaper still.
Impulse Airlines has flown regional routes in New South Wales for seven years, but entered the major interstate routes only in June. Virgin Blue, a subsidiary of the Virgin Company, created by Richard Branson, started flights Aug. 31.
While the two newcomers have a range of fare schedules akin to those of Qantas and Ansett (all the lines use the same airports), they are also promoting some exceptional deals. Impulse set off the price war last month when it introduced its $38 one-way fare between Sydney and Melbourne.
Impulse has 11 daily round-trip flights between Sydney and Melbourne (fares range from $38 to $88 one way) and eight daily round-trip flights between Sydney and Brisbane ($38 to $94.50) on its five Boeing 717-200 jets. Tickets can be booked on www.impulseairlines.com.au, by telephone within Australia (13-1381) and through Flight Center's 500 retail travel agent outlets in Australia (13-1600).
While tickets on the company's regular fares are fully changeable and even transferable, the deeply discounted fares of $38 are nonrefundable and nonchangeable and can only be booked on the Internet.
Virgin Blue is starting with four daily round-trip Boeing 737 flights between Sydney and Brisbane (increasing to seven by Oct. 1), with at least half the seats available at the launch price of $57 one way. Its Melbourne-Brisbane route has three daily flights in each direction at $80 one way. Tickets at www.virginblue.com.au, by phone within Australia (13-6789) or with travel agents.
Qantas and Ansett both responded rapidly to the deep discounting by Impulse and Virgin Blue, matching the $38 fares between Sydney and Melbourne. Qantas and Ansett also took Impulse's Sydney-Brisbane fare and extended it until Oct. 28. Qantas tickets can be bought at www.qantas.com.au, at (800) 227-4500 or from travel agents. Ansett tickets are available at www.ansett.com.au, by phone within Australia (13-1300) or through travel agents. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VAH (ASX) (92%); QAN (ASX) (92%); BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (92%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%); 

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (94%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

CITY: BRISBANE, AUSTRALIA (93%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (93%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (91%); 

COMPANY: VIRGIN AUSTRALIA HOLDINGS LTD (92%); QANTAS AIRWAYS LTD (92%); BOEING CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (94%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); BRISBANE, AUSTRALIA (93%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (93%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (91%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (75%); DEREGULATION (73%); OLYMPICS (72%); PARENT COMPANIES (70%); 

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



377 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 36; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1590 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
Mexican Modern: Back to a Future That Fell Behind

BYLINE: By VICKI GOLDBERG

 BODY:
THERE was a point between the two world wars when politics and economics pushed experimental modernism in the visual arts into a corner or simply squashed it in the Soviet Union, Germany, Italy and America. For a while in the 1920's the modernist adventure was still going full throttle. Although many artists in Europe and the United States pulled back toward stylistic reason and classicism immediately after the chaos of World War I, avant-garde experiments like Dada, Suprematism, abstraction and Surrealism continued to strike sparks in much of Europe and the U.S.S.R. in the 1920's and even in the 1930's where dictators did not forbid them or social causes overshadow them. Mexico was a special case. Early 20th-century art movements had a negligible influence there before the 1920's. Just when they began to have an effect, the Mexican muralist movement spread across the country's walls and by its artistic power, nationalistic appeal and its very size and visibility, marginalized the modernist currents pulsing through the country.
The muralist movement, set in motion by a government plan for the "Salvation and Regeneration of Mexico Through Culture" in 1920, ignored European currents like Cubism and abstraction. Diego Rivera, who had been a Cubist for several years in Europe before turning away from it, devised a mural style that combined realism, primitivism, myth and politics. Neither Jose Clemente Orozco nor David Alfaro Siqueiros paid any more attention to Cubism or abstraction than he did. 
 And yet experimentalism did spring up and never died in Mexico; it just stayed in the shade. A glimpse of vanguard modernism in photography, which has been studiously neglected (and probably largely unknown) by historians, may be caught in the gallery of the Mexican Cultural Institute on East 39th street, in a quiet and elegant little show called "Otras Cosas: Abstract Photography." Malin Barth is the curator of this exhibition of 27 images by Emilio Amero, Lola Alvarez Bravo, Manuel Alvarez Bravo, Augustin Jimenez and Rosa Covarrubias, most from the late 1920's and early 1930's, a few from the 1950's. A brief catalog is available.
Mr. Alvarez Bravo, born in 1902 and by far the best known of the five, is widely recognized as a major player in early modernist photography as well as a vital influence on Mexican photography. His most familiar images, taken on the street, distill the commonplace experiences of a Mexican city into moments pregnant with potential and resonant with mystery.
Less well known are his modernist experiments with abstraction and ambiguous details in the 1920's, which first brought him to public attention in Mexico in 1928. For a series of "Paper Games," Mr. Alvarez Bravo let his adding machine spew out paper tape that wound itself into unforeseeable shapes, and then photographed the results close up. In 1931 he won first prize in a contest sponsored by the Tolteca Cement Company with a photograph that is at once a geometric exercise and an index to information about the subject. A trapezoidal form, actually a cement wall that recedes too rapidly, stands on a slanted bed of crushed pebbles used for making cement. The dark background, punctuated by lighter diagonal lines, is the ceiling of the cement factory. Mr. Alvarez Bravo's lens turns both site and process into spare emblems of modernity.
He taught photography to his first wife, Lola Alvarez Bravo (1907-1993), and she made a career of it, keeping his name after they divorced. She is the late comer in this show; though she was photographing by the mid-1930's, most of her pictures then were portraits and street work. The selection here is of landscapes taken in the 1940's and 1950's; they are less devoted to the principles of abstraction than some of the other images in "Otras Cosas," though they immerse the viewer in roots and leaves and branches without horizon, beginning or end.
As a muralist, Emilio Amero (1901-1976) assisted Rivera and Orozco; later he made experimental films and earned most of his reputation as a lithographer. In the early 1930's he made photograms, a cameraless technique thought of as a pre-eminently modern way to make the familiar strange. Amero experimented with the process and produced an unusual range of tones by exposing the paper to light in the darkroom several times -- most photograms are exposed only once -- and changing the light's intensity. His rigorously constructed compositions, mostly of mass-manufactured objects like gears and springs, include cut-out shapes as well as actual objects placed on the emulsion and proclaim their modernism by technique, composition and the use of machine parts and utilitarian products.
Augustin Jimenez's (1901-1974) photographs were shown in America and London between 1929 and 1931 to good reviews. He subsequently devoted himself to cinema, collaborating with Sergei Eisenstein and working with Bunuel as well as making some films on his own. In this show, his photographs from around 1931 concentrate on repetitive elements that form patterns when ripped out of context: the spines of a cactus, a line of rifles on a rack, the open-work shadows of some sort of umbrella.
Rosa Covarrubias (1895-1970), wife of the painter and illustrator Miguel Covarrubias, played with photograms in a manner so different from Amero's that it might be called -- at risk of sounding politically incorrect -- feminine modern. Two of her images begin with drawings of herself in the nude and add emblematic objects like shells, a sunburst, a Mexican ceramic animal, a goblet turned upside down to make the outline of a full-skirted dress that does not obscure her naked body. One photogram of a glass, lace and a butterfly could certainly have been made by a man, but in the context of her other work it looks like a riff on feminine preoccupations. She won third prize in the Tolteca competition, reportedly with the most abstract composition of all.
Covarrubias was a striking woman even with her clothes on, and Edward Weston took her portrait more than once. He and Tina Modotti, who had moved to Mexico together in 1923, taught her photography. How well she learned the lesson is evident from her photogram of a halved cabbage, most likely made after Weston had left Mexico and certainly before his extreme close-up of a halved artichoke, which it strongly resembles.
All of this work follows modernist dictates, even regarding experiment, with an air of assurance, suggesting on the basis of limited material that photographic modernism had a respectable outpost in Mexico at the time. The surprise is that it exists in some quantity, since so little of it has been seen here.
Modernism came to Mexico from abroad. In photography, and to some degree in painting, Weston and Modotti were primary influences (though Covarrubias probably learned about photograms in Europe in 1926 when she became friends with Man Ray). In the 1920's and 1930's, several outstanding foreign photographers, including Weston, Modotti, Paul Strand and Henri Cartier-Bresson (and Eisenstein), worked for a time in Mexico, and their presence enriched the culture of that country, if not as greatly as it enriched the culture of the visitors.
The beginning of the 1920's, when modern art had its first appreciable impact on Mexico, was almost the exact moment of the muralist movement's embrace of goals quite unlike those of the European avant-garde. There was a divide between the two Mexican artistic impulses, with some artists feeling that no matter how passionate they were about their country's history, art had other purposes.
By the end of the 1920's the mural movement was so dominant that it had inspired a backlash; still, it got the lion's share of attention. Modern art was already too entrenched in the Western world to be stifled (except in the places where it was outlawed), but it could be pushed out of the spotlight. During the Depression, when the United States elevated documentary above all other forms of art and exalted realism, putting photography in a primary position, art for art's sake and much of modernism were shunted into the wings. Which is not to say that either modernism or abstraction vanished, only that they were relegated to the sidelines. Or worse. Photographers who did not direct their cameras at social ills sometimes found themselves on the defensive.
The issue of art for art's sake versus art as evangelism, education or propaganda recurs periodically. Realism overpowered abstraction and its relatives in the 1920's and 1930's wherever nationalism, social utopianism, propaganda -- even, sometimes, humanitarianism -- became primary objectives. In the Soviet Union, where art for art versus art for social ends was vigorously debated, there was a rare and mystical moment of belief, Malevich being its chief representative, that abstraction could change life for the masses in the new nation. The Soviets didn't buy it, and indeed it is not so easy today to imagine the peasants achieving a new society under the impetus of Malevich's colorful geometric forms.
Mexican artists opted for realism before the U.S.S.R. did, and for different reasons, yet in Mexico, as in most other places, there were otras cosas, art movements that persisted outside the mainstream. There are always brave souls stubbornly, persistently swimming against the current, and though history may inundate them and hide them from view for a time, it can also retrieve them once more from the deep.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A detail from "Untitled (Cactus)," circa 1931, by the Mexican photographer Augustin Jimenez. (Courtesy of Ava Vargas Photographic Works)(pg. 37); One of Manuel Alvarez Bravo's "Paper Games," above, a photographic series of spooled paper from 1926-27; right, Rosa Covarrubias's photogram "Untitled (Cabbage)," made in the late 1920's. (Throckmorton Fine Art, New York); (Adriana and Tom Williams Collection, Courtesy of Don Beatty)(pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); VISUAL ARTS (89%); HISTORY (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); WORLD WAR I (73%); EXHIBITIONS (68%); 

PERSON: ALVAREZ BRAVO (65%); EMILIO AMERO (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



378 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 38; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2199 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
The Air-Conditioned Reverie of a Fundamentalist

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP

DATELINE: HOUSTON

 BODY:
SUMMERTIME in Houston. This is what it's like to be a martyr to city-love. Heat and mugginess drive the body into underground streets and climate-controlled rooms, behind sealed windows and closed doors. The mind feels trapped, too. Intellectually, you know that you're in a great American city. Physically, you feel absent.
The sensation of absence must be acute for Rafael Moneo, architect of the new Audrey Jones Beck Building at Houston's Museum of Fine Arts. In Moneo's native Spain, builders have been coping with heat for eons. Here in Texas, a one-time Spanish colony, architecture is for all practical purposes a network of sealed membranes, constructed around air-conditioning systems and linked together by cars chilled to bone-rattling discomfort. 
 The week I went to Houston, a photograph appeared on the front page of this newspaper depicting the apparent melting of the polar ice cap. Yes, Virginia, Santa's workshop is under water. Compared to this alarming piece of news, the Beck Building is scarcely worth mentioning. Nonetheless, the building is a good one. It deserves a positive story. But so does the link, however remote, between the Beck and our watery top of the world.
Usually, when I arrive in a city to look at a building, I spend some hours prowling the vicinity to orient myself to the site. In Houston, it was too hot to prowl, or even to inspect the Beck Building's exterior, except from the window of my hotel room across the street. From this perspective, the building's context was the window, the newspaper and a bowl of complimentary fruit. Still life with art museum. Nature morte.
Still, even a discouraged city-lover would risk dehydration to visit a building by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe. Two previous additions to the Museum of Fine Arts were designed by the great master, in 1958 and 1974. These have now been renovated, to coincide with the Beck Building's opening last May, when the weather may have been more conducive to architectural appreciation.
Moneo was an excellent choice to build on Miesian precedent. Like Mies, Moneo is a fundamentalist. He believes in essences, architectural values that endure. "I am committed," he said, "to an architecture that maintains faith in the principles and the mechanisms architecture has always had."
Like Mies, who preferred the term "building art"to architecture, Moneo embraces material construction as architecture's basic fact. He is not a structural expressionist. The stone surfaces of the Beck Building conceal load-bearing steel and concrete construction. But Moneo's forms and volumes do not violate the logic of the materials and methods used to fabricate them.
The Beck is a square, two-story box. It occupies an entire block in the museum district a few miles from downtown, across the street from the Mies expansion and the museum's original home, a 1924 Beaux Arts temple. All four sides of the Beck are covered with a light pink stone that shimmers with a lustrous, Mediterranean bloom. Only spare geometric cuts are made in the facades: some large windows framed in bronze; a wedge-shape trough that allows the sun to reach a skylight; air grilles. On the west side, a deep reveal shelters the main entrance.
The Beck's roof can be counted a fifth facade. It supports the building's most conspicuous urbanistic device: a grid of louvered light boxes that illuminate the galleries below. Night photographs taken from above suggest that the lanterns were intended to echo the downtown skyline some miles away. This effect is not apparent from the street. Nonetheless, the roofline makes an elegant night-time apparition.
Two entrances to the Beck cause anxious indecision, particularly since the main one is concealed in deep shadow beneath an overhang and separated from the street by a driveway. The driveway is partly screened by a thick cement wall that has been molded into scored letters forming the museum's name. The lettering, designed by Massimo Vignelli, is astonishingly unattractive. If the intention was to recall the thick walls of adobe construction, the gesture is hollow here.
Blast of conditioned air. Ticket lobby. Then, as the body adjusts, a vision of space-on-space: an atrium of an amplitude that you wouldn't believe possible in a two-story building, even with the little penthouse that enables the atrium to punch through the roofline. You are instantly relieved on entering, and not just by the coolness. The atrium's compressed, almost intimate monumentality states that Moneo knows everything there is to know about museum fatigue, including how to spare you from it.
CLASSICALLY composed yet dynamic, the atrium is animated by two diagonals that slice asymmetrically through it. A staircase to the left, an escalator to the right form two triangles that face each other in reverse -- two flipped halves of a divided square. The length and thinness of the two banks magnify the room's scale. The space is further enlivened by the eclectic array of antique sculptures that face you like a committee welcoming you to the history of art.
Take the escalator to the permanent collection. You may be halfway through it before your eye is drawn to the Beck's signal detail: a cubic convergence of planes and textures. A narrow strip of stone is set into the floor around the perimeter of each gallery. Playing against the stained, dark oak floor, the strips are light-catchers, horizontal frames that extend the wall's surface into the space of the room. Just above the stone, thin, louvered aluminum air-conditioning grilles are mounted at the base of the wall. The doorways between the classically proportioned galleries are framed with brushed bronze panels.
It may strike you that the entire building was designed to create a sympathetic environment for this device for framing space and light. While the skylights, with their louvered light boxes, are formally more assertive, the detailing in the galleries themselves defines the visitor's experience. They helped persuade me that the Museum of Fine Arts has the richest collection I've seen in many years.
On leaving the Beck, you get another slap in the face. The blast of heat is only part of the shock. There is also the abrupt transition from the visual to the physical, from the sphere of retinal experience to a world where eye and brain are but two organs in a wholly constituted body.
This is what an art museum is supposed to do, you might say: create a space ruled by the sense of sight. But to become aware of this specialized function is to see that Moneo's building is part of the general fragmentation of culture after all. And this awareness extends to the urban context. Like the Beck, the great majority of our buildings are dedicated to the creation of visual effects. In this sense, the Beck symbolizes architecture's role in the detachment of the eye from the rest of nature.
The interesting thing about fundamentalists is the many fundamentals that their thinking does not take into account. Architecture's obedience to the eye is a relatively recent phenomenon in the history of building. The ancient Mediterranean sculptures that greet visitors to the Beck building served a religious function. Greek sculpture, for example, was attached to the temple, which itself derived its meaning and value from the sacred earth site on which it stood. Differentiation -- into bodies, selves, disciplines, sites and cities -- was seen by the Greeks as a dreadful if necessary part of life. From it grew tragic theater.
The differentiation of space into the modern art museum is also wonderful and terrible. For the Greeks, art as well as religion supplied the connective tissue that prevents differentiation from pulling human life to pieces. For us, art is a thing apart. In a modern democracy, it is neither possible nor desirable to return to the Greek model. But it is possible to imagine how, working within the logic of art, the Beck Building might have articulated the tragic as well as the triumphal dimension of the modern art museum.
The museum's collection is traditionally organized by region, chronology and school. Overall, it traces a narrative of progressive abstraction, from funerary sculpture, created for the body and the earth, to the thin, gorgeous lines of an Agnes Martin painting and spare geometric shapes of the museum's sculpture garden, created in 1986 by Isamu Noguchi. Along the way, we pass through the Italian Renaissance and the modern transition from the sacred to the secular, from the content-laden form of the religious icon to the illusionary device of single-point perspective.
The museum's architecture tells a similar story. The Beaux Arts building is an abstraction of classical architecture. The Mies expansion pushes neoclassicism to the extreme reduction of glass and steel. The Moneo building, while clad in stone, recapitulates the Miesian ethic of formal reduction and spatial clarity. Even the stone -- a real material that provides the Beck's formal decoration -- represents the earth in abstract form. The story reaches a climax with "The Inner Light," an installation of artificial light created expressly for the Beck by James Turrell. Progressing from earth to sky, physical to ethereal, the story is fundamentally religious in nature, a ritual procession in the temple of art.
The story is still unfolding. The contemporary informational city is an ethereal zone, held aloft by streams of 0's and 1's generated by rapid electronic impulses. For now, however, its citizens still dwell in bodies, sealed buildings and cars, and these continue to create an invisible but highly unethereal substance: greenhouse gases.
Houston is the capital of the oil economy. That economy built the city, defined its shape and makes it habitable. Even the Museum of Fine Arts reminds us of the city's dependence on energy. Across the street from the Beck stands a second new building -- a shadow Beck -- which houses the museum's air-conditioning system and a parking garage. Unfortunately, the shadow Beck has been designed to conceal this infrastructure. It would have been better had Moneo chosen to aestheticize it.
The Museum of Fine Arts has a nice trove of sculptures by Jean Tinguely, including "La Bascule VII," a work from 1967. It is pictured in the museum's guide book, along with a bold-face quotation from the artist, "All machines are art." This is a fundamental modern tenet, one of the founding beliefs of New York's Museum of Modern Art. If Moneo's thinking were sufficiently elastic to incorporate this idea, the shadow Beck might have gained equal standing with its twin. This could have been achieved in four easy steps: eliminate the walls; install solar panels on the roof (an inverse of the Beck's lanterns); light up the interior (Turrell could have been turned loose on this); and declare the shadow Beck a new museum acquisition -- "Air-Conditioning, With Cars."
Peter Eisenman once said the function of architecture is to "problematize" things. That is partly true in the case of the Beck. It is possible to give the building high marks and still come away thinking that something is wrong. Has one toured the wrong building? Perhaps it is a mistake to think of the Beck's concrete walls as its structure. Its deeper structure may lie in the shadow building across the street. Without cars, the museum would be inaccessible. Without air-conditioning, it would be uninhabitable. Compared with this infrastructure, the Beck's structure is almost incidental.
ART museums traditionally put a fine gloss over the dark side of baron robbery. I see no reason to disparage this civilized practice. But the context of culture has changed dramatically in the quarter century since the Mies expansion was completed. Clients didn't habitually conduct global searches for architects. Before moon landings and satellite photography, the north pole seemed far, far away. It required a stretch to see any connection between an air-conditioning system in Houston and an ecological catastrophe on the polar extremities. Now, it takes a stretch to overlook one.
The ice caps were once purely natural phenomena. Now they are cultural phenomena as well, the product of an evolving global operating system that has drawn together the producers and consumers of buildings and cars to create what an art historian might reasonably describe as the most ambitious earthwork of historical time. Perhaps the time has come to uncreate this masterpiece. This will require a global effort, too. Cultural institutions have a pivotal role to play in it. We look to them for self-awareness and for traction -- for signs that the operating system can receive sufficient feedback to avoid the self-destructive explosive fate Tinguely sometimes planned for his exploding mechanical sculptures.
Our Shadow Beck would not reduce oil consumption by one drop. But it could work powerfully on the level of metaphor, the plane on which art museums and their contents communicate. Like Tinguely's sculptures, the Beck Building might have spoken metaphorically about its own civilization. I think it would say: "Houston, we have a problem."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, lanterns on the roof of Rafael Moneo's Audrey Jones Beck Building at the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston, with the city's downtown skyline at the rear. At right, a gallery of European art in the museum. (Timothy Hursley); (Joe C. Aker and Gary Zvonkovic)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ON TOP OF THE WORLD INC (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); HVAC SYSTEMS (77%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); 

PERSON: RAFAEL MONEO (90%); LUDWIG MIES VAN DER ROHE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



379 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME;
Escaping Leases Made By Sponsors

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
LAST May, a Federal Appeals Court in Manhattan rendered a decision that could save some co-ops and condominiums hundreds of thousands of dollars, real estate experts say. The decision -- based on a 1980 federal law enacted to protect shareholders and unit owners from sponsors who give themselves lucrative, long-term leases on building amenities at the time of conversion -- has expanded a co-op's or condominium's ability to end such leases without the consent of the sponsor.
"What this means is that after 20 years, the Condominium and Cooperative Conversion Protection and Abuse Relief Act is still alive and well," said Walter D. Goldsmith, a Manhattan co-op lawyer who has brought several lawsuits under the act. "And there are still plenty of buildings around that can benefit from it." 
 Mr. Goldsmith said that although the act was passed by Congress 20 years ago, there had been relatively few cases litigated under its provisions. However, he said, co-ops and condominiums that stand to benefit from the law -- typically, those with garage or laundry-room spaces that are tied up in long-term leases with the original sponsor or his successor -- stand to benefit significantly.
"If a lease can be recaptured from a sponsor, that would result in a substantial financial benefit to the building," Mr. Goldsmith said, explaining that many garage and laundry room leases negotiated at the time of the conversion had terms extremely favorable to the sponsor. "These leases often go on for 50 or even 100 years. You could be talking about millions of dollars."
Scott E. Mollen, a Manhattan lawyer who wrote about the issue in the New York Law Journal earlier this month, said that the Condominium and Cooperative Conversion Protection and Abuse Relief Act was enacted by Congress in response to concerns that elderly residents who were buying co-ops and condominiums in retirement communities were being taken advantage of by sponsors.
"A number of years ago, when conversions were the hottest thing around, it became fairly common for sponsors to be very aggressive in carving out what they thought would be lucrative, long-term economic opportunities," Mr. Mollen said. "In a nutshell, they were giving themselves sweetheart leases on commercial retail space and parking facilities in the building at a time when they were still in control of the board."
The abuse relief act enabled co-op corporations and condominium associations to end such leases unilaterally by filing an action against sponsors who had negotiated long-term leases for amenities that were deemed to be "property serving the shareholders or unit owners," Mr. Mollen said, typically, garages and laundry rooms.
One catch in the law, Mr. Mollen added, was that the notice of termination of the lease must be brought within a specific f time.
"There is a two-year window within which the lease must be terminated," he said, explaining that the two-year time period began either when the sponsor relinquished control over the affairs of the building or when the sponsor's ownership of units in the building dropped to 25 percent or less, whichever occurred first.
Since most conversions in New York took place in the late 1970's and early 1980's, Mr. Mollen said, and since state law required a sponsor to relinquish control of a co-op or condominium's board of directors no more than five years after the conversion, co-op and condominium boards could reasonably believe that the two-year window had closed many years ago -- that is, two years after the sponsor relinquished control of the board.
In the case recently decided by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and brought by a co-op at 136 East 56th Street, the court ruled that a sponsor could still be deemed to be in control of the building for purposes of triggering the two-year window under the act even after relinquishing apparent control of the board.
"The court found that even after the election of an independent board in 1988, the sponsor retained veto powers that allowed it to exercise control over the building," Mr. Mollen said, referring to a provision in the co-op's governing documents that gave the sponsor the right to veto any change in the co-op's certificate of incorporation or bylaws as long as he owned even one share in the co-op.
What that means, Mr. Mollen said, is that in buildings where a sponsor still owns more than 25 percent of the units -- and where the sponsor has a long-term lease for a laundry room or garage space -- there is a possibility that the two-year time period for ending the lease has not yet been triggered if the sponsor has retained some measure of control over the building.
" You have a number of older buildings where the relationship between the board members and the original sponsor has remained harmonious," he said. "And in such situations, the board may fail to consider hiring independent counsel to determine whether they have any potential rights with respect to lucrative, long-term leases held by the sponsor. In short, there are boards out there that have been lulled into sleeping on their rights."
Ted Poretz, the Manhattan lawyer who successfully represented the co-op at 136 East 56th Street, agreed.
"Most co-op boards and managers don't even know this law exists," Mr. Poretz said. "And those who do probably think that the window closed two years after the sponsor gave up control of the board."
In fact, he said, any co-op or condominium board that has a laundry room or parking garage tied up in a long-term lease with a sponsor -- or even a third party who bought such a lease from the sponsor -- should check their governing documents to determine whether the sponsor has retained control in the building.
For example, he said, if a building's certificate of incorporation or bylaws contains a provision requiring a unanimous vote or even an 80 percent or 90 percent supermajority of votes to change the bylaws, certificate of incorporation or proprietary lease, it is possible that a sponsor who still owns more than 25 percent of units in the building could be deemed to still have control over the building for purposes of the act.
"It's highly likely that there are provisions like these in many governing documents," Mr. Poretz said. "These are common bundles of protection that sponsors give themselves."
And if that is the case, he said, then the triggering of the two-year window for ending a sponsor's lease begins when the sponsor's ownership of units in the building drops to 25 percent. "And there are lots of buildings out there that are only now approaching 75 percent of ownership by tenant-shareholders or unit owners," Mr. Poretz said, adding that once the two-year window was open, it was not even necessary for the co-op or condominium to prove that a long-term lease was unconscionable or unfair.
"All you have to prove is that the sponsor essentially negotiated the terms of the lease with himself," Mr. Poretz said. "And since the sponsor is in control of the building at the time of the conversion, that's something that's usually easy to prove."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL APPEALS COURT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL APPEALS COURT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (62%); SENIOR CITIZENS (62%); AGING (50%); 

PERSON: SCOTT E MOLLEN (91%); WALTER D GOLDSMITH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



380 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 2; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Chasing Ever-Changing American Dream

BYLINE: By JOAN SWIRSKY

 BODY:
IN 1983, Jozsef Domeny bought a one-way ticket from communist Hungary to capitalist West Germany. The long road that he followed has led him, 17 years later, to Floral Park and a successful career as a builder.
At the time, Hungary allowed its citizens to buy only round-trip tickets, banning one-way trips to discourage defections. Mr. Domeny, who prefers to be called Joe, hoped that the authorities would not notice that he was never coming back, but he was promptly summoned by the Budapest police, "and I thought, 'That's it, it's all over,' " he said. 
 But the police only wanted to question him about payments he had received as an extra on television and in the movies.
Mr. Domeny's trip, from Budapest to Munich, was fraught with fear and anxiety. Mr. Domeny, a 24-year-old subway motorman who was divorced, agonized over leaving his 4-year-old son, Gabor, and his year-old daughter, Brigitte, and he was terrified that the border guards would check his papers and return him to Hungary, where he faced certain imprisonment.
"I was praying I wouldn't get caught," Mr. Domeny said in an interview, and praying did not come easily to a man whose family members had been forbidden to practice their Catholicism when they moved to Budapest 15 years earlier.
In West Germany, Mr. Domeny was granted refugee status, and he stayed for 11 months, "but they wouldn't let me get a work permit for two years," he said. Relying on the four years of German he had studied in school, he found work nevertheless, installing blinds and awnings on houses.
When he learned that the International Rescue Committee would help him leave Germany for South Africa, Australia, Canada or the United States, he said, the choice was easy: "Two were too far, one was too north, and I always used to hear in Hungary that America was the place of dreams where you could work hard and buy a house."
In 1984, the German government paid his air fare to New York, and the rescue committee paid three weeks' rent in a run-down hotel on 35th Street and Fifth Avenue and gave him a small amount of cash. With only $65 in his pocket and a bag of clothing, and unable to speak a word of English, "I was in bad shape, but I was free," he said.
"I didn't get on a subway for three days because I was scared of the homeless people," he said, but he was put in touch with a Hungarian bookstore on 82nd Street and Second Avenue. To save money, he walked the 50 blocks there every day, discovering a thriving Hungarian community that introduced him to a Sunday soccer league and a church, where he found his first work in construction.
"It was great to work," Mr. Domeny said, "but when my three weeks was up at the hotel, the I.R.C. gave me $100 and cab fare to Flushing. That's where I found the only room I could afford."
Alas, his boss went back to Hungary and his job was short-lived. But Mr. Domeny found work in a carwash.
"It was 7 days a week, 12 hours a day, for $3.50 plus tips," he said. But after a couple of weeks, his fierce work ethic paid off: he was offered the opportunity to become a foreman, a job that he held for two years and that ultimately allowed him to buy a used car.
"It was the first car I ever owned," he said, a broad smile betraying the pride he still feels about the purchase, a 1973 Buick Regal. That allowed him to travel to Bay Shore to supervise the owner's other carwash.
Then the carwash closed, and Mr. Domeny found work as an apprentice to a window installer. His boss, once again, was impressed by Mr. Domeny's hard work and offered him the chance to work by himself. But again, the job fell through, this time when Home Depot arrived on Long Island, driving many small home repair companies out of the market.
"At that time," explained Mr. Domeny, now 41, "I was married again, and it was during the gulf war. Gas prices were high and jobs were short. My wife was working as a teacher and I was staying home with our new baby, Eric, but I didn't like that. I decided to put ads in the Yellow Pages to start my own construction business."
The business started to take off but the marriage fizzled.
"It was a tough time for him," said his new wife, Dr. Lori Reeve Domeny, 35; they were married last year. "For a Central European man, it wasn't easy reversing traditional roles."
Dr. Domeny, who was also previously married, teaches psychology at Queens College and is a psychotherapist at a number of geriatric centers.
She said that when Mr. Domeny's marriage broke up, he became depressed. "But then one day he woke up and decided to get in shape" with rowing exercises at the Y.M.C.A. in Bellerose, where she teaches aerobics.
"That was it," she said of her instant attraction to Mr. Domeny.
But Mr. Domeny, who describes himself as shy, said it took him several weeks to ask her out. Finally he approached her, saying, "You have to come out for pizza with me because last night I drove my van into my garage door just thinking about you.
"The dent is still there," he added.
At first, Mr. Domeny's solo business venture. "I only made enough to get by," he said.
His first customer, a Great Neck resident who asked him to install an air-conditioner, was pleased with the work and hired Mr. Domeny to replace his roof and paint the inside and outside of his house.
"I just about broke even on that job," he said, "but from there it was word of mouth to people in Forest Hills, Whitestone and all over Long Island. What I learned is that owning your own business is a lot of struggling, but it's a good way to be independent. It's better than working for someone else."
Today, Mr. Domeny, who has permanent-resident status and plans to become a citizen soon, is the owner of Precision Master Inc. and says he has no need to advertise. He prefers to hire workers from Europe "because they care a lot about the work and how it comes out."
Mr. Domeny, whose parents are retired bus drivers in Hungary, has never been back, but he has stayed in touch with them and with his children, once meeting his son Gabor in Austria "because Hungary was still communist at the time," he said. Gabor, now 21, is visiting from Hungary to learn the construction business from his father.
Mr. Domeny said he applied the same principles to business that he did to learning English.
"I never took a course in English but I listened to the way people were speaking the language and I copied them," he said. "The same thing with building. No one ever explained to me what to do, but I watched what they were doing and I learned."
The Domenys are still pursuing their goals: to buy a home and have a family.
"But today the 'American dream' is not what I heard about in Hungary," he said. "That was when the husband works and the wife stays home and takes care of the kids. Today, we both have to work like crazy. The dream has changed."
Dr. Domeny expressed the couple's ambivalence: "We can't decide if we should save for a house, or travel and eat out. We've loved our trips -- to the Bahamas, Mexico, Florida, Aruba and Hawaii."
What advice does Mr. Domeny have for other immigrants who come to this country nearly penniless, unable to speak English and unsure of the future?
"Learn English and work hard," he said. "Find a job and keep it and work your way up. You have all the opportunities, if you're an American, to make something of yourself."
 
A Diverse Island
This series looks beyond the stereotypes that sometimes taint relations between immigrants and native Long Islanders, examining immigrants' lives and how they are being woven -- or not -- into the social and economic fabric. Previous articles described the aspirations of Muslims on the Island, a Korean nail salon owner and her American-raised son, a Colombian landscaping entrepreneur, an Indian liquor store owner and a Trinidadian woman who manages a convenience store.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jozsef Domeny fled Hungary for West Germany and now owns a construction company in Floral Park. (Richard Lee for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HUNGARY (94%); GERMANY (94%); CANADA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (93%); 

COMPANY: 2ND AVENUE DESIGN (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); HUNGARY (94%); GERMANY (94%); CANADA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (69%); REFUGEES (68%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (63%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (54%); SOCCER (50%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: LORI REEVE DOMENY (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



381 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 16; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: For Central Islip, a Renaissance

BYLINE: By STEWART AIN

DATELINE: CENTRAL ISLIP

 BODY:
THIRTY years ago, motorists driving north on Carleton Avenue past Central Islip State Hospital would have seen vacant and vandalized red-brick buildings and just up the street, abandoned and burned-out houses.
Now, drivers along this same stretch of road see a new gleaming white federal courthouse, a brick county court complex and just up the road, a new shopping center that's taking shape. 
 "I have seen changes in Central Islip that are unbelievable," said Judge Leonard Wexler of United States District Court, who acted as liaison in the construction of the new federal building. "Just across the street and a little north of here, they are putting in a large shopping center with a multiplex cinema. They are also renovating an old hospital and making it into an office building. Other new office buildings have gone up, and investors are buying up property around here and making improvements. A tremendous change has come over the area."
Nancy Manfredonia, the executive director of the Central Islip Civic Council, said the the federal courthouse, along with the adjacent Suffolk County court complex, the new stadium where the Long Island Ducks play and the new movie theater, has helped to turn Central Islip around.
"I don't think Central Islip ever expected to be a tourist attraction, but we sure are," she said. "The Long Island Ducks have made a big splash and have been very successful. Almost all its games were sold out. And people have been dying for a local movie theater. Now we won't have to go to Commack, Patchogue or Smithtown."
Much of this and other new development is happening on what had been the 788-acre site of the Central Islip State Hospital, which at its peak in the 1950's had as many as 10,000 patients. The 107-year-old hospital had been the lifeblood of the community, but after decades of deinstitutionalization, by 1994 the hospital had only 200 patients. The state has kept a core of about 100 acres at Central Islip, and as other psychiatric hospitals nearby were closed, it transferred patients here.
After the state began closing hospital buildings in the mid-1960's, it transferred 376 acres to the Town of Islip as part of an urban renewal project in 1977. Five years later, the town sold 356 acres to the New York Institute of Technology, which has recycled two dozen of the smaller hospital buildings for its use. Over the years, the institute has bought more hospital property from the state, for a total of 506 acres.
Three years ago, Touro College in Manhattan bought another 13 acres from the state for $1.5 million and plans to relocate its law school, now in Huntington. to the new site by 2002.
"I've been watching Central Islip for the last five or six years, and it's amazing what's going on there," the school's dean, Howard Glickstein, said. "There promises to be a lot more commercial development. It's inevitable that with more employees and students in the area, the community is going to need more shops and restaurants."
Judge Wexler estimated that 1,000 people a day will come to the federal courthouse. once the building is fully staffed. The $190 million, 850,000-square-foot-building, designed by Richard Meier & Partners, working with the Spector Group of North Hills, is one of the largest courthouses in the nation. Although the first trial was held there last month, Judge Wexler said the United States attorney's offices would not move from Hauppauge and Garden City until mid-October. The 11-story building will be dedicated Oct. 16.
This is the first time the Federal government has owned its own courthouse on Long Island, and all federal courts will be consolidated here from rented space in Westbury, Hauppauge and Uniondale.
Walking through the new courthouse, the judge showed off the woodwork in the courtrooms, birch in one and cherry in others. "Notice how the grain flows in each piece of wood so that it matches up, just as it came from the tree," he said. "It looks expensive, but it really isn't. Wood is wood -- it's just what you do with it."
As Judge Wexler walked into the ninth-floor hallway, he stopped and looked out the windows on either side. "This is my favorite spot in the building," he said. "Looking to the north you can see a good amount of Long Island. Looking to the south, you can see Fire Island, the Great South Bay, Robert Moses bridge, the lighthouse and the ocean."
He said that with the help of his wife, Barbara, an interior designer and painter, he and the General Services Administration selected Mr. Meier as the architect.
The building received mixed reviews from some lawyers who visited last month. Jonathan Sinnreich of Hauppauge called it a monstrosity. "I think it's ugly and totally out of context," he said. "It's sterile and completely inappropriate."
JoAnn Bodmer of Hauppauge said: "From the beach, it sticks out like a sore thumb.'. I was hoping that when you go inside there would be something embracing about it, something that would give it a warm and fuzzy feeling. But it didn't happen. It's sterile and cold."
Lisa Green, a spokeswoman for the Meier firm in Manhattan, disagreed with the critics. "The architecture clearly expresses the importance and dignity of the judicial branch," she said, "while at the same time being a welcoming and open building for both visitors and those who work there daily."
Although the courthouse may be the most visible symbol of the new Central Islip, other more mundane buildings may take on more importance for the people who live and work here. Jules Demchick, the president of the J. D. Carlisle Development Corporation of Manhattan, which is building the shopping center, to be called the Town Center of Central Islip, north of the courthouse, said, "We saw that a lot of things were going to happen at that one site, and we felt it was a good place for a shopping center."
King Kullen and the 20-screen, 4,400-seat multiplex will serve as the center's anchors, he said, and there will be as many as six restaurants, a video store, a pharmacy and an electronics store.
Martin R. Cantor, a consultant to the Central Islip Main Street Alliance, sees a bright economic future for the area. "The movie theater is planning on one million ticket purchases a year from a 12 1/2-mile radius," he said, "and the Long Island Ducks intend to bring in an average of 357,000 people. So from those two venues, you will bring in 1.4 million people who will hopefully spend money while they are here."
Mr. Demchick said his company was negotiating to buy property near the federal courthouse to build a hotel with a maximum of 225 rooms.
It may be facing some competition. Russell Mohr, the director of sales and leasing for Benjamin Development in Garden City, said that his company was negotiating with two hotel chains to open a seven-story, 140-room hotel with three restaurants on a nine-acre site at Courthouse Drive and Carleton Avenue. The plans would require town approval.
The hotel site is part of a 52-acre parcel a Benjamin subsidiary, the Arlen Contracting Corporation, bought from the state for $2.2 million last February. Located just north of the Cohalan court complex and adjacent to the ballpark, it includes six buildings from the psychiatric hospital, totaling 900,000 square feet.
One of the buildings, the former medical and surgical building on 11 acres on Carleton Avenue, is being renovated as a 175,000-square-foot office building, the Courthouse Corporate Center. Mr. Mohr said the building would be ready in the first quarter of 2001.
The hospital building Arlen is renovating is within a 1.6-square-mile economic development zone created to provide tax incentives to lure businesses to Central Islip and to encourage those there to expand. "The incentives involve sales taxes, income taxes, franchise tax credits and rebates," said William G. Mannix, the director of economic development for the Town of Islip.
In the previously blighted residential area north of the former hospital grounds, the town and private investors in recent years built single-family homes on the west side of Carleton Avenue, known as College Woods, and town houses on the other side in a development called Park Row.
Kenneth Parker, a private investigator who moved to Park Row two years ago, said he welcomed the federal courthouse and the development. "It will increase real estate prices and bring in more professionals here," he said. "This is becoming the jewel of Long Island."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The federal courthouse, left background, is one of the new buildings that is helping to revitalize Central Islip. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF FINANCE (51%); CENTRAL ISLIP CIVIC COUNCIL (57%); CENTRAL ISLIP STATE HOSPITAL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL ISLIP CIVIC COUNCIL (57%); CENTRAL ISLIP STATE HOSPITAL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); MOVIE THEATERS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (66%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); THEATER (54%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: LEONARD WEXLER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



382 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1850 words

HEADLINE: High-Tech High School

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN KILEY

 BODY:
THE latest high-tech enterprise in Stamford doesn't have anything to do with venture capitalists or initial public offerings. But given the urgency with which Stamford went about creating the Academy of Information Technology, it is clear the city sees its new high school as a major investment. And if it delivers on its promises, the school could become a model to emulate statewide.
On Sept. 5, after just a year of preparation and planning, the academy opened its doors for the first time, admitting about 225 of the approximately 300 students who had sought admission. 
 It is the first high school in the state where the mission is to train students in information technology, the high-tech field that encompasses the Internet. The logic of the move was obvious. After all, the school is located in an area that has hundreds of high-tech companies and not enough workers to run them. The Connecticut Internet Association of Stamford estimates that one out of four high-tech jobs remain unfilled in the state. If anything, it is a wonder that the creation of such a school took so long.
"A.I.T. is unique and it's the first in the state to do something like this," said Tom Murphy, spokesman for the state Department of Education. "Connecticut schools are moving in the direction of providing more technology courses, but it's not as structured as A.I.T., it's more ad hoc."
Staples High School in Westport, for example, uses technology to teach and offers technology electives, such as programming. But its emphasis isn't on training people in technology, said Lynne Shain, assistant superintendent of curriculum and staff development. "We're not teaching technological skills to stand alone."
The academy, and its 15 classrooms, is located in the Rippowam Center, Stamford's magnet middle school. The students will have access to desktop and laptop equipment, where they can learn about computer graphics, Web design, programming and database and network administration. Students will design Web sites, build computers and computer networks and learn how to program. Students will have mentors from local high-tech companies and will be offered internships.
"It's a great way to get students started on a technology training track," said Terri Kochersperger, a senior vice president at Priceline.com of Stamford. "Why wait until they get to college?"
And some companies are willing to hire students with high-tech training before they even get to college. Barry Monies, president of Computronix, a network service provider in Stamford, said he might hire, fresh out of school, academy graduates who have advanced network training.
"It's a talent pool for us," he said. "I wish something like this was here when I was going to school."
The idea for the academy began last fall, when Anthony Mazzullo, superintendent of Stamford schools, was chatting with William Schwab, president of Norwalk Community College, about a possible joint project that would involve information technology.
After more discussion, between themselves and with others, including business people, politicians and educators, they came up with the idea to develop a high school that would not only integrate technology into teaching, but also offer heavy-duty technology courses. "This will hopefully help narrow the digital divide," Mr. Schwab said.
As with many high-tech startups, it's a race to turn concepts into tangible items, because in these Internet days, time is compressed. What used to take a year, now takes three months. So the luxury of waiting and debating a new concept is gone. Christine Casey, assistant superintendent of Stamford schools, seemed amenable to this approach. Like a hot startup selling to investors, she and her supporters were able to cut through the "political fog," as one supporter put it, and get the project approved in warp speed.
What makes it even more amazing is that it was a collaborative effort among community groups and businesses. "We're blurring the lines" Dr. Casey said. That isn't easy because the barriers dividing business and education tend to be rigid, she added. But as one colleague commented, "Chris doesn't know the meaning of 'no'."
The blurring is happening on many levels. Curriculum design was moving solely out of the hands of educators. The entire process of developing a curriculum, which at times can be an insular exercise, Dr. Casey said, was created with the help of local high-tech business leaders, Norwalk Community College, Stamford administrators and teachers.
"We went after a select number of small companies, because we needed help in developing the curriculum and getting internships that were meaningful," said Harry Orlick, chairman of the school's advisory board and a retired I.B.M. executive. "Plus we needed some teaching support from the outside."
While the initial focus will be on providing a high school education, with an emphasis on technology, Dr. Casey and others envision opening the academy to the public. By next year, the school will be able to accommodate more people when the middle school moves to another building. "There is a huge need to provide adult education in the community," she said.
Some involved with the project didn't think the school would get beyond the planning stage, mostly because there was no real model to convince people that it would work. "We pounded out the numbers around January and it was about a $1 million project, at the time, and I thought that would be the end of it," said John Lindquist, director of information technology for Stamford. "There was no real model, and they said, 'Let's do it.' "
Not having a template seemed a blessing, Dr. Casey said, because it may have forced decision-makers to become visionaries. "We had a vision to provide a place that would give the kids the opportunities to take the technology they already know and build upon it," she said. "Why start them on a keyboard learning to type when they already know how to build a Web site?"
That's an understatement. Some academy students are running PC repair shops out of their basements and taking high-level networking courses at the school. "It's about 50-50 in terms of their level of knowledge," said Jeanne Lauer, who left Westhill High School to teach a training program designed by Cisco Systems, a networking company in San Jose, Calif. at the academy. "Some have no knowledge, while others have tried to learn on their own, while others are taking the high-level Cisco networking course."
Although there were some technically savvy candidates that applied to the academy, they didn't have an advantage over those who had only a smattering of tech know-how. The academy considered all students, regardless of their school performance. The entrance requirements consisted of a 250-word essay explaining their interest in technology and a personal interview.
Henry Jones, student recruiter and consultant on the project, who has spent the bulk of his career developing youth programs, interviewed hundreds of students. "Many of these kids want to own their own businesses and be in charge of their own destiny," he said.
Some will realize it earlier than others. Nigel Johnson and James Simon, both 17 and seniors at the school, run a business called PC Junkies, a PC problem-solving enterprise, out of Mr. Johnson's basement. In addition, they are halfway through the first level of Cisco System's online networking training course.
"If they complete the first level of training, these kids could be making $50,000 to $70,000 right out of school," said Michael Pensiero, applications support manager for the city's information technology department.
The money is alluring, but the advanced placement seniors insist that isn't the only draw. "It's not really the money, but if you have to do something you might as well like it," Mr. Johnson said.
"Yeah," Mr. Simon added, "I didn't find out about what type of salary I could make until I was accepted at A.I.T."
As seniors, they already have all but one English course to meet graduation requirements, and they plan to load up on technology electives, they said. Mr. Simon is taking college-level English, which is being taught at the Academy by Norwalk Community College teachers and can be applied toward college credit or toward the academy's five-year high school and associate's degree program with the college.
They also have big plans for building the school's Web site, envisioning such things as a school newspaper, listings of internships, student of the month and student portfolios. And if they have time, both students may continue working throughout the school year. They were among the dozen summer interns hired by Stamford's information technology department to trouble-shoot and update computers in the city's 19 schools.
Some might argue that these teenagers are spreading themselves too thin, while others say the continuous mental stimulation is healthy. "Every day, you should try to keep feeding the mind," said Johnnye Mae Britt, grandmother and legal guardian of two of the academy's students.
Then there are students like Peter Telesco Jr., 14, a ninth grader at the academy. According to his father, Peter, his son has been an under performer. "It's very unusual, that he's motivated to go to school," Mr. Telesco said. "He's a bright kid, but if he loses interest, forget it."
But Peter is crazy about computers and his father hopes the academy can leverage that interest. "He and his friend Mike have a mock business, and they're on that computer all day and all night," Mr. Telesco said. "Now that he's working with computers, he might like science and other subjects."
Lt. Gov. Jodi Rell, who is responsible for developing a plan to modernize Connecticut schools and libraries, is also looking for that hook. After touring the state for four months last year, she said, "Not every school was wired, and not every school has access to Internet, and not all teachers are trained."
This view is supported by the Progressive Policy Institute, a Washington, D.C.-based research and policy maker, which ranked the 50 states in terms of economic indicators and overall readiness to compete in the new economy. Connecticut ranked fifth in economic indicators, but the state's schools ranked 42nd in their preparedness in using technology to teach.
To change this, the state recently earmarked $32 million to connect all classrooms to the Internet over the next few years and digitize the state's libraries. Other initiative also include encouraging businesses, via tax breaks, to donate used computers that are less than two years old.
Improving schools on this level, can't happen soon enough. With unemployment hovering at around 2 percent and the state becoming a home to more high-tech companies, businesses need more skilled labor, said Mark Pruner, president of the Connecticut Internet Association and Web Counsel, an interactive market agency for the legal community. "So what it comes down to is redefining education -- this is something that has to be done," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: James Simon and Natalie Betancourt take a programming class taught by Sheldon Levine, standing. The school also plans to have local companies offer internships to its students. (Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times)(pg. 16); Dagny Forrester, a teacher at the Academy of Information Technology in Stamford, goes over a point with Lillian Castellanos, a student. The school, which focuses on high-tech studies, has about 225 students. (Photographs by Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PCLN (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (51%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (51%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: PRICELINE.COM INC (51%); ACADEMY OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ACADEMY OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (88%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); CURRICULA (77%); SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (72%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (66%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (66%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (61%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



383 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 12; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK;
From MacArthur, a Bonanza in Business Travel

BYLINE: By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
LONG ISLAND business travelers are increasingly choosing MacArthur Airport in Islip over La Guardia, Kennedy or Newark, opting for convenience over frequent flights. Passenger traffic through newly renovated MacArthur is expected to reach two and a half million this year, up from less than two million last year. The growth reflects the robust local economy and the national upsurge in business travel.
Still, many business travelers prefer to arrive at Kennedy, La Guardia or Newark, do business on Long Island, and then return to an airport hotel or to Manhattan at the end of the day. They represent a market Long Island hotels have largely ignored so far. But that, too, may change, as the first of a planned 3,000 new hotel rooms are completed this fall, and as new hotels, most along east-west arteries, continue to open in the next four or five years. 
 The Long Island Convention and Visitors Bureau says that most of those the new hotel rooms, about 7 out of 10, will be marketed to business travelers.
Economic conditions are driving the surge in business travel and accommodations. "Long Island technology is exploding right now, and more people around the country are doing business on Long Island," said Joseph Cosgrove, the executive vice president of the Coronado Travel Group in Roslyn, which specializes in business travel. "There haven't been enough hotel rooms to accommodate them all."
That will soon change as the new business-oriented hotels put out their welcome mats. Forgoing amenities like on-site restaurants, bars and room service, such hotels typically offer other features instead: in-room Internet hookups, fax service and multiple telephone lines.
Those are the sort of services offered by the 130-room Wingate Inn, which opened last winter in Garden City. By catering to business travelers, its occupancy rate quickly rose to 87 percent.
"For a long time it's been very difficult to open a new hotel in Nassau County, and as a result, business travelers couldn't find the accommodations they got in other markets," said Alan Fairbairn, a partner in the Garden City Wingate. "We anticipated that people were coming into Nassau to do business that would book rooms in a new hotel that had the right features. We put in those features, and it turned out we were right."
Mr. Fairbairn, who teaches hospitality management at the New York Institute of Technology in Central Islip, said: "People used to come to Long Island for business through La Guardia or Kennedy airports. Obviously, they still do. But more and more they're coming through MacArthur and want to stay within a few miles of where they're working."
John Tsunis, the managing partner in Long Island Hotels, is putting up two hotels near the Long Island Expressway and has the business market as his target: a 136-room Holiday Inn Express at Exit 56, near Hauppauge, and a 160-room Hampton Inn at Exit 63, near Holtsville. The first is scheduled to open in December, the second next spring. Although neither hotel will have food and beverage service, both will have exercise and meeting rooms.
"Two international corporations are headquartered within a few miles of each other on the L.I.E.," said Mr. Tsunis, who was referring to Computer Associates and Symbol Technologies. "They drive business and create an enormous ripple effect."
Much of the surge in business travel is coming through MacArthur Airport. Its growth -- more gates and flights -- represents a convenient bonanza to business travelers. It's estimated that half the passengers at MacArthur are on business.
That represents a sea change for the airport, which had been run by the Town of Islip primarily as a convenience for residents. Until well into the 1980's, amenities were few: passengers collected their luggage on the sidewalk outside the terminal, for example. A $14 million face lift, completed earlier this year, added more parking and renovated the terminal but did not improve access to public transportation.
"When the airport was renovated, there was talk of relocating the terminal to the north end," said Charles Baldassano, the Ronkonkoma architect who handled the project. Rather than moving the terminal, which would have put it about two miles from the Long Island Rail Road's Ronkonkama station, the town board voted to expand parking, to about 3,000 spaces. "The sense I got," said Mr. Baldassano, "was 'Keep it local.' "
That became problematic in March 1999 when Southwest Airlines announced the that it would begin low-fare service from MacArthur to Chicago, Washington and several other cities. The budget airline continues to increase its service, most recently adding a $49 one-way flight to Providence, R.I. Other airlines have since added flights or lowered prices, a phenomenon the airline industry calls the Southwest Effect.
Many business travelers say MacArthur became a business airport the day Southwest arrived. Now, about a third of all the airport's passengers fly on Southwest, the airline said.
Gary Quinn, the executive vice president of Computer Associates who oversees corporate travel, said, "You take a look at the parking lot in MacArthur, and you see how crowded it is." About 6,400 Computer Associates employees will fly out of MacArthur this year, up nearly a quarter from last year's total. That increase reflects both the company's business expansion and changing individual preferences, Mr. Quinn said.
"If you've ever flown into Kennedy or La Guardia and dealt with the congestion and the traffic and airline personnel, then it's no mystery why people would rather fly out of Islip," Mr. Quinn said.
Still, many business travelers prefer to use Kennedy, La Guardia or Newark and hotels near those airports or in Manhattan. "New York metro airports are widely known and utilized, compared to what's available on Long Island," said Robert Mann, an airline consultant based in Port Washington. Lingering concerns about frequency of service and airlines' commitments to the market also deter use, he said. With infrequent flights, a missed connection can mean having to stay overnight, rather than taking the next flight a little later.
There is also what might be called the Sticks Factor. "It's just hipper to stay in the city," said Toni Giovanetti, the publisher of Hotel Interactive, a business-to-business Web site based in Huntington. "It's still the place to be if your company doesn't mind footing the bill."
Mr. Cosgrove of Coronado Travel said that a number of West Coast dot-com companies specifically instruct him to book flights into Kennedy and to make hotel reservations in Manhattan.
Michael Hollander, the president and chief executive of the Long Island Convention and Visitors Bureau, said: "There is no doubt that New York City is the No. 1 primary destination and that Long Island tends to be a secondary destination for business travelers. When a business person comes out here, I don't see him going out to the beach by himself."
Is that a problem for local hotels?
"The occupancy rate is 82 percent year round," Mr. Hollander said. "So no, I don't think it's a problem at all."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph Cosgrove, left, of the Coronado Travel Group in Roslyn, and Paul Morrison, marketing manager of Southwest Airlines, on the tarmac at MacArthur Airport. (Phil Marino for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF FINANCE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RESTAURANTS (75%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); TOURISM (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



384 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Greenwich, Conn.;
The Changing Face of a Renowned Shopping Street

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
FOR generations, Greenwich Avenue, the shopping hub of this upscale town, was a place where clerks in the local stores knew their regular customers by name, size and personal taste. Now, though, much of that has changed, as in recent years many of the independent stores have been replaced by large national chains.
Many of the drapery shops, drugstores, shoe stores, dress shops and stationery stores that used to occupy the 180 retail spaces that line the four-block avenue have given way to Saks Fifth Avenue, Baccarat, The Gap and Gap Kids, Banana Republic, Henry Lehr, The Limited, Sam Goody, Pier I, Laura Ashley, The Door Store, Starbucks, Best & Company, J. Crew and Restoration Hardware, among others. 
 New retail construction on the avenue, the first in decades, was unveiled earlier this month when Richards, a 27,000-square-foot men's and women's clothing store opened at a cost that the owner, Jack Mitchell, said was between $20 and $30 million. And within the next few weeks, after more than $1 million worth of renovations are completed, an Art Deco-style Tiffany's is scheduled to open on two floors of a building where Ralph Lauren closed after terminating its agreement with a licensee.
The metamorphosis from hometown downtown to glitzy international street mall has been driven by a local economy that doesn't flinch in down times and in good times like these can rocket.
Rising retail rents -- which chains can afford but most small stores cannot -- and the increasing cost of property are prime reasons for the change, brokers and developers say. "When you have very expensive real estate," said James Cummings, owner of Aberdeen Properties, a Greenwich real estate company, "people invest in those properties that will support the rents necessary to justify the investments."
Average annual retail rents, which were $10 to $20 a square foot in the 80's, jumped to between $50 and $60 a square foot in the 90's and are rising to from $75 to $100 a square foot today.
Retail property sales have been similarly airborne. D. W. Rogers' department store, founded in 1897, remained a tenant when its building was sold by the owner, Terry Baxendale, for $2 million in 1983. But after Mr. Cummings purchased the building for $8.2 million in 1997, the retail space was leased to Restoration Hardware for 15 years. Now the building is on the market again, with an asking price of $21 million.
The increase in price includes the value added to the 35,767-square-foot structure when it was gutted and rebuilt for Restoration Hardware. Aberdeen Properties paid for a new facade, floors, mechanical systems, elevator and structural changes that opened up the selling floor. Mr. Cummings declined to disclose the cost.
Restoration Hardware, which has a total of 12,000 square feet, spent upward of $1 million on the interior, according to local brokers who say that its rent is $75 a square foot for the selling floor and about $25 a square foot for the basement storage space. Mr. Cummings and Restoration Hardware declined to discuss the rent or the cost of the interior work.
THREE upper stories of the building formerly held 21 rundown apartments that were renovated by Mr. Cummings as luxury studios, one- and two-bedroom units. The apartments, ranging from 600 to 1,200 square feet, were fully rented by last November for from $1,900 to $3,700 a month, and there is a waiting list for vacancies.
John T. Goodkind, of the Greenwich office of Newmark & Company Real Estate of Manhattan, was the broker for the Rogers sale, and he continues to handle the marketing of the building.
Richards, on the site of a former gas station, was designed by the New Haven architect Herbert Newman in an open, airy style with a series of clerestory windows maximizing natural light and drawing the eye up to a skylighted atrium. A pedestrian entry faces Greenwich Avenue, and a second entrance faces a 68-car parking lot at the rear. A 130-car garage was constructed under the building.
"Greenwich," Mr. Newman said, "is a model of how small cities and towns can reinvent themselves. When you shop along a street you are a citizen on your own turf. Shopping malls developed within towns and cities turn their backs on the community."
Richards' interior, designed by Jay Fitzpatrick, principal of Fitzpatrick Design Group of New York, is dominated by a 10-foot-wide staircase that splits to right and left as it reaches the second floor. The walls and floors are finished in rich woods and inlays, complemented by areas of neutral-colored carpeting.
Richards, as well as Mitchell's of Westport, are run by eight members of the Mitchell family. Originally, Richards was the name of a store across Greenwich Avenue from the new Richards. It was opened in 1949 by Richard Schlesinger, who sold it in 1956 to Edward Schachter, who sold it to the Mitchells in 1995. "We wanted a store in Greenwich," said Jack Mitchell, "and the synergy between Richards and Mitchell's was enormous."
In-store boutiques are dedicated to Armani, Zegna, Hermes, and Piana, and the rest of the establishment features clothes from Prada, Brioni, Escada, Calvin Klein, Ralph Lauren, Dolce & Gabbana, Badgley Mishka and other high-end designers.
The emphasis on retailing on the avenue was given a boost through a zoning change in the mid-80's that has come into play because of the recent rapid turnover. "When leases expire and tenants move out," said Marshall Heaven, of M. H. Heaven Real Estate, "the ground floor must go to retail. No offices -- no stockbrokers, insurance companies, or travel agencies may take the space. Banks are allowed, but no drive-up windows."
A property that will be affected by the requirement that space be used for retail purposes is the three-floor, 18,000-square-foot former home of the American Institute for Foreign Studies. Mr. Heaven said that the ground floor is available for retail at an annual rent of $75 a square foot. The two upper floors are available as offices at $60 a square foot annually.
AFTER 30 years on the avenue, the institute, which places American students in European colleges and universities and provides European au pairs for American families, has moved to larger and cheaper quarters in Stamford.
Next door, Mr. Heaven said, Gourmet Galley, a popular spot for takeout lunches and specialty foods over the last 20 years, could not afford a hike in annual rent from $40 to $75 a square foot and must vacate its 2,500-square-foot store by the end of November.
Cherry & Webb, a 12-year-old moderately priced women's clothing store on two floors, has also moved out. "With 6,250 square feet, it's the largest retail space available on the avenue," said Tom Torelli, a broker for the Allied Property Group. The rear faces a 270-car parking lot, a precious asset in parking-poor downtown Greenwich. Asking annual rent is $60 a square foot.
Many restaurants have come and gone, but the Da Vinci Ristorante has remained on the avenue since 1967. Lisa Vitiello, the owner, bought the building in 1986 for $2 million. "Realtors are urging me to sell," she said, "but this is my children's legacy."
Celebrity retailers attracted to the avenue include Tommy Hilfiger's wife, Susie, who opened a Best & Company children's store in 1997 and enlarged it a year later. She owns an additional Best's in Nantucket, Mass.. Last April a women's sportswear store called Gabby's, named for Donna Karan's daughter Gabrielle, opened. Along with a Gabby's in Westport and in Great Neck, N.Y., it is owned by Mark Karan, Donna Karan's former husband.
In recent months the smaller spaces have been filling up with specialty shops, including Kate Spade, Kynnens and April Cornell. A 60-seat bistro called Bleu opened in a former laundromat at the lower end of the avenue on the same night that Richards opened. "We had 50 dinner reservations for people going to the Richards party," said Jody Pennette, the manager and an owner.
"What's happened," Mr. Torelli said, "is that all parts of the avenue are now considered prime, whereas five years ago there was more of a spectrum of rents."
The lower end of the avenue, closer to the railroad and I-95, was considered less desirable than the middle and upper end, he said. Richards, by locating at the upper edge of the lower end, boosted the area's prestige over a three-year development and construction period. Today the last old food and service stores are gone, replaced by antique and specialty shops.
"There is no inexpensive space on the avenue any longer," said Mr. Torelli. "The choices are expensive or very expensive."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richards and Restoration Hardware are among the stores that have opened on Greenwich Avenue. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)
 
Map of Connecticut shows the location of Greenwich Ave.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (76%); FASHION DESIGNERS (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (74%); SHOE STORES (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); FOOTWEAR (73%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (73%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (73%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (73%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (69%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (69%); MEN'S CLOTHING (53%); 

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



385 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 12; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF

BYLINE: Compiled by Warren Strugatch; E-mail: libiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:

Leslie Alexander Buys 20 Acres From Grumman
TJ Enterprises, which is owned by Leslie Alexander, whose business interests include the Houston Rockets basketball team and vineyards on the North Fork, has bought 20 acres in Calverton from the Northrop Grumman Corporation. The price was $2.8 million. 
 Mr. Alexander is currently building a house in Southampton.
The Calverton property, formerly used by Grumman in building warplanes for the Navy, contains three buildings totaling 125,500 square feet of office and laboratory space. Mr. Alexander said he had no immediate plans for the site.
 
Bioscience Park Opens At Farmingdale Campus
James Watson, the president of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, joined officials from the State University at Farmingdale and the New York State Economic Development Corporation at the opening Monday of the Broad Hollow Bioscience Park, a $15 million, 50,000-square-foot complex on the SUNY-Farmingdale campus, off Route 110. The park is a collaboration between the university and the laboratory.
Three start-up companies will move in this fall. OSI Pharmaceuticals, a drug-discovery company in Uniondale, plans to move in sometime next year as the anchor tenant.
Plans include adding a second wing and a 13,000-square-foot addition.
 
Symbol Founder Receives Postal Service Award
Postmaster General William J. Henderson presented Dr. Jerome Swartz, the chairman and founder of Symbol Technologies (NYSE: SBL) in Holtsville, with the Postal Service's Partnership for Progress award on Monday at a national mailing industry conference in Anaheim, Calif. More than 300,000 Postal Service carriers and clerks use Symbol hand-held scanning computers to track mail deliveries.
Symbol's bar-code technology is also used by the Postal Service in its PC Postage program, which enables consumers to print out postage over the Internet.
In presenting the award, Mr. Henderson said that Symbol's efforts have helped increase productivity and efficiency and have given the Postal Service new tools to meet the customer demands. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (84%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (84%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (84%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (71%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (84%); COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORY (71%); OSI PHARMACEUTICALS INC (55%); HOUSTON ROCKETS (84%); HOUSTON ROCKETS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON ROCKETS (84%); HOUSTON ROCKETS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASKETBALL (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); POSTAL SERVICE (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (76%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); STARTUPS (53%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH C PAPA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



386 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 3; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Winter Energy Bills Likely to Rise Again

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
AMONG the most oil-dependent regions in the country, Long Island is bracing for a potentially bruising fall and winter that could chill the still-surging regional economy and empty consumers' pockets as oil prices rise.
Retail prices for home heating oil used in more than two-thirds of Long Island homes -- a density unmatched elsewhere -- were already averaging $1.50 per gallon last week, according to the Oil Heat Institute of Long Island, a trade group. But the price was widely expected to rise above $2 as the heating season commences. Kevin Rooney, the trade group's chief executive officer, said retail prices matching a peak of $2.40 a gallon last year were possible. 
 "Last year was pretty wild, to say the least, and this year is shaping up as a repeat," Mr. Rooney said. Much would depend on the weather, he added.
Tight global supply and limits on refining capacity are at the root of the problem. An agreement by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to raise crude oil production by 800,0000 barrels a day and efforts by other foreign and domestic oil producers to increase output would have limited effect or come too late to lower retail prices soon, experts have said.
On Long Island, the effect of the higher prices will be immediate and severe. Every dime increase in the price per gallon would add $100 to a typical homeowner's seasonal heating bill. For a typical delivery of 250 gallons, the cost would increase from $375 at the current price of $1.50 to $500 at the $2-a-gallon price to $600 if the price again reaches $2.40.
Businesses, schools, governments and private and public institutions using heating oil would also be hit with higher costs eventually reflected in retail prices, fees and taxes.
Natural gas prices were also going up. Keyspan, the region's largest supplier, has warned its 500,000 gas customers in Nassau and Suffolk that bills will be 15 percent higher this season. Gasoline prices were expected to approach $2 a gallon, a retailers association said, and electric rates are also under strong upward pressure.
The Long Island Power Authority must soon decide how or whether to collect from customers some or all of the oil-driven higher wholesale electric prices it has been paying for months.
"Our goal is to hold steady and not pass along these higher costs to customers, but it's going to be a struggle," said the LIPA chairman, Richard M. Kessel.
More than 75 percent of the authority's electricity comes from former Lilco generating stations now owned and operated by Keyspan, Lilco's successor. Oil and natural gas that power the plants are the source of the increases in wholesale electric prices that the authority has temporarily absorbed.
Some other privately owned utilities in New York are permitted by state regulators to quickly pass along higher petroleum costs to customers, as Lilco once did. But by law the power authority may only adjust rates annually, at the beginning of each year.
Bonnie Habyan, a spokeswoman for Keyspan, said the company currently held in storage in Pennsylvania half of the gas it estimated it needed this winter to supply residential customers. "It's already in hand," she said, and therefore was not subject to price increases because of higher wellhead prices.
Ms. Habyan said about half of customer bills were for taxes and pipeline transportation costs that were unaffected by gas prices.
But such price cushions don't exist for gasoline at Long Island pumps.
Kathryn Pollane, the executive director of the Long Island Gasoline Retailers Association in Melville, said $2 a gallon gasoline prices were possible if the upward spiral of oil prices continued.
Ms. Pollane, whose association has about 1,000 members in Nassau, Suffolk and Queens, said average prices last week were $1.61 a gallon for regular gasoline at self-service stations.
On car-dependent Long Island, where public transportation is not an option for many commuters, higher gasoline costs will cut into disposable income as the cost of driving to and from work spikes upward.
"Long Island is a pretty spread-out economy and people have to depend on several cars per family," said Dr. Irwin L. Kellner, a professor of economics at Hofstra University and chief economist for CBS MarketWatch. Dr. Kellner said higher gasoline prices would also boost distribution costs for businesses, leading to higher retail prices for food and other consumer products.
Consumers with less to spend on items that cost more would naturally buy less, hurting retail businesses and reducing sales tax revenues, he said. Nassau and Suffolk Counties depend heavily on sales taxes to finance budgets. They would face pressure to raise property taxes to make up any shortfall.
"You don't have a choice about heating your home in the winter," Dr. Kellner said. "And if it's cold, that is going to take a lot of buying power."
The National Weather Service's 90-day forecast for the New York metropolitan area called for temperatures close to normal. But the first cold snap will still be a fearsome thing, said Mr. Rooney of the Oil Heat Institute.
"The only thing that is holding down the retail price at this point, of course, is the fact that there is no demand for heating oil," he said. "But as we get into the heating oil season the demand begins to bring down inventories and put more pressure on refineries. Then you will see a steady increase in the retail prices."
Mr. Rooney said inventories of heating oil held by dealers on Long Island would quickly be used up, reflecting in part a decline in dealers' tank space over the years. He said the best advice he could offer was to buy heating oil as soon as possible and hope for a mild fall and winter.
Oil-driven price increases were creeping in everywhere. On the cross-sound ferry between Orient Point and New London, a $1 surcharge on all cars and drivers offsets what the ferry service said was a doubling of its fuel costs in the last several months. Even foot passengers pay the extra $1. Trucks pay $2 to $3 extra, depending on size. "The customers have been very understanding," said Stanley W. Mickus, the director of marketing.
It remains to be seen whether higher gasoline prices will lessen road congestion. But a state Department of Transportation spokeswoman, Eileen Peters, said car pooling appeared to be up. "The one trend that we have noticed," she said, "is that our park-and-ride lots are a lot fuller than they were six months ago."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A truck fills up at the Riverhead terminal of the Tosco Corporation, the Island's wholesale petroleum products giant. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (58%); NG (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (58%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (52%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PRICE INCREASES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); HEATING OIL (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITY RATES (89%); NATURAL GAS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); WHOLESALERS (88%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (88%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (87%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (86%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (75%); PLANT CAPACITY (72%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (72%); POWER PLANTS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (67%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (65%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); EXECUTIVES (55%); 

PERSON: IRWIN L KELLNER (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



387 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 6; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: COMMUNITIES;
Investing the Family Fortune

BYLINE: By ROBERT WORTH

DATELINE: YORKTOWN

 BODY:
IN the spring of 1997, when Sue Morrow Flanagan first saw what is now the Kitchawan Institute here, it did not look promising. A storm had strewn tree limbs all over the property. The main building had been abandoned six years earlier by its previous owner, the Brooklyn Botanic Garden's Field Research Station. Inside, there were so many leaks that water could be heard trickling all over the building.
"It was a disaster," Ms. Flanagan said. 
 To some people, the notion of spending a large chunk of the family fortune to buy the property and transform it into a site for promoting sustainable development and international human rights might seem risky, to say the least.
But Ms. Flanagan did more than that: she insisted that the Kitchawan Institute be a "green building," demonstrating some of the environmental technologies she hopes to foster in her education programs.
The result will be unveiled to the public on Sept. 27, when the institute officially opens its doors. Built on 14.7 acres and surrounded by 200 acres of woodland owned by Westchester County, the institute is a nonprofit organization that will be the host for educational workshops and business meetings.
In a sense, the institute's unusual mission reflects Ms. Flanagan's own quirky life history. She spent several early years in Nepal, where her first husband was posted as a diplomat, working as a photojournalist for The Financial Times of London and other newspapers. She became interested in human rights, documenting atrocities in the region, and, according to her resume, played a role in the struggle to free the kidnapped daughter of a British tourist from Sardinian bandits.
She moved to Westchester in 1982, where she worked in public relations and from 1989 to 1993 published Water Ways: New York's Waterfront News, a monthly newspaper covering development, the environment and issues affecting rivers, lakes and canals throughout the state.
Ms. Flanagan, 48, has been married and divorced twice and has two adult children. She lives in Ossining about a mile from the institute.
After buying the building and grounds for $600,000 in 1997, Ms. Flanagan spent another $2 million renovating it. Most of the money was contributed by her grandmother, Emma Weston, 97, who lives in a nursing home in Croton-on-Hudson. Ms. Weston gave to a number of causes during her life, and her fortune is now largely spent.
"She didn't want to leave money that people would fight about," said Ms. Flanagan, who contributed $250,000 of her own."
The institute also received two grants totaling $10,000 from the county and the state.
Ms. Flanagan, who will serve as the institute's president and preside over a staff of eight, sometimes talks like a New Age guru. "Because of the beauty of the place, the magic of the place, I believe it will make communication breakthroughs happen," she said.
But she is very serious about making the institute support itself by renting the building for corporate meetings and retreats. The space includes two main rooms, which seat 50 and 75 people, and a leafy interior courtyard, which can be covered by a tent.
The institute's main competition will come from area hotels, said Clare Pennino, the director of business and applied programs in the continuing education division at Purchase College. But she said there was a growing demand for off-site meetings and training sessions and Kitchawan's unusual setting was a strong advantage.
"When many executives go to meetings," she said, "one of the things they attempt to look at or will appreciate is an environment that is different from their normal routine."
Ms. Flanagan's environmental enthusiasm is apparent to anyone entering the columned green porch of the institute, which leads into a large room where a cedar trunk appears to prop up the ceiling. Above it, on a ceiling painted sky blue, tiny fiber-optic lights glint like stars. Glass doors give a view of the trees and gardens outside, and painted ivy on the walls extends from actual ivy on the outdoor walls beyond, in a trompe l'oeil effect.
"We wanted to bring the outside inside," Ms. Flanagan said of the building's airy architecture, which was designed jointly by Peter Helmes of Katonah and Lucio DiLeo of Studio RAI in Pleasantville.
But what really makes the institute a "green building" is its geothermal heating system, which uses the earth's constant temperature beneath the surface to help heat the building in winter and cool it in summer. The institute received a $40,000 grant from the State Energy Research and Development Authority to help develop the project.
Ms. Flanagan relishes taking visitors to the basement to see the two pumps that send water up from a 300-foot well and around the house, constantly monitoring the temperature. "I call them Sylvester and Tweety Bird," she said, smiling admiringly at the deep blue pumps. The system does not supply all the building's heating needs, so there is a standard oil furnace as well -- "the dinosaur," as Ms. Flanagan puts it.
The geothermal system will save Kitchawan $7,000 a year in energy expenses, and by reducing its reliance on fuel oil, cuts its emissions of pollutants, according to the authority's consultants, Steven Winter Associates.
"We're not just pulling people together to talk about green technology, we want to be a demo site as well," Ms. Flanagan said.
Ultimately, she hopes the site will draw environmental engineers and inspire them to innovate.
"I want the top minds in green buildings here," she said. "When we've got them all together, we'll have taken a whole bundle of fuses, and they'll walk out and you'll see a whole bunch of fireworks, and who knows what will come of it."
In addition to environmental programs, the institute will present speakers on international human rights law from several universities and the Westchester Commission on Human Rights. The institute will also grant fellowships to lawyers for summer study at the International Human Rights Law program at Oxford University.
"People used to say 'think globally, act locally,' but that's no longer possible," she said. "It's irrelevant to focus entirely on the metropolitan community without understanding that we are an international community, and what we can do about it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sue Morrow Flanagan inside the Kitchawan Institute in Yorktown, and the exterior of the building, above. The nonprofit organization officially opens its doors on Sept. 27. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); NEPAL (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (82%); KITCHAWAN INSTITUTE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: KITCHAWAN INSTITUTE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEPAL (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GREEN BUILDING (77%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (77%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); FAMILY (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (69%); LAKES (68%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (64%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: SUE MORROW FLANAGAN (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



388 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 3468 words

HEADLINE: Look Homeward

BYLINE: By DEBRA GALANT

DATELINE: GLEN RIDGE

 BODY:
WHEN Philip Roth sent his fictional alter ego, Neil Klugman, from Newark to Short Hills to visit Brenda Patimkin in 1959, he sounded a literary theme that would reverberate for decades. The tension between gritty urban life and the wealthier -- but ultimately vacuous -- nearby suburbs has become a classic theme of modern American storytelling.
Only now it is Tony Soprano going back and forth between Satriale's Pork Store and his bland nouveau chateau in West Caldwell. 
 There is nowhere like New Jersey to set such a tale, and within its borders, nowhere like densely packed Essex County -- with Newark at its hub and places like Short Hills, Millburn, Maplewood and Montclair as the spokes.
To be sure, the major cities -- New York, Los Angeles and Chicago -- are frequent settings for movies and books, and they provide the stark backdrop for studying the contrast between haves and have-nots. Other parts of New Jersey have inspired novels and movies, like Richard Ford's well-received book "Independence Day," and Stanley Tucci's movie, "Big Night."
But few places within or outside of New Jersey rival the 127 square miles of Essex County for such a compact collection of haves, have-a-little-lesses and have-a-little-bit-mores.
Where else can a reader or a moviegoer find tight Italian towns like Belleville, where the police and the Mafiosi party side by side at weddings? Or upper-middle-class Jewish shtetls like Livingston? Or towns like Bloomfield, Glen Ridge, Montclair, Verona and Caldwell, where the subtlest gradations of social class can be read by the Christmas decorations? (Life-size Navity scenes or plywood reindeer? Flickering multicolored lights, or understated candles in upstairs windows?)
Tom Cudworth, a screenwriter who grew up in Bloomfield and still lives there, fashioned the movie "Ten Benny" from a youth that was rich with such material. "The kid in your homeroom's father was a made guy," Mr. Cudworth recalls. "But he was also the guy who was taking you out to the pizzeria. And the language. There's a way that Italian-Americans can curse that's like poetry."
Eric Bross, who directed "Ten Benny" and grew up in West Caldwell, agreed. "It has an intrinsic authenticity," he said. "You shoot in New Jersey and you feel like you're getting the real deal."
A generation ago, this was hardly the case. Although Mr. Roth has been churning out stories about his native Newark for four decades, others have found the charms of Essex County more elusive. When Larry Peerce made the movie "Goodbye, Columbus," in 1969, he shifted the action from Newark and Short Hills to the Bronx and Westchester.
It is hard to imagine the same decision being made today. Even if filmmakers don't specifically set their movies in actual New Jersey towns, several work in a very specific vernacular that is readily identifiable to denizens of the Exit State.
In addition to Mr. Bross and Mr. Cudworth, who also made the movie "Restaurant" -- set mainly in Hoboken but has some scenes in Newark -- there is Kevin Smith, director of "Clerks," and Todd Solondz, director of two bizarre and critically acclaimed movies, "Welcome to the Doll's House" and "Happiness."
I N "Doll's House" and the even darker "Happiness," Mr. Solondz -- who was born in Newark and raised in Livingston -- has painted suburbia not just as banal, but smug, mean-spirited and ultimately creepy. It is a point of view that Mr. Cudworth aptly calls an "anti-Wonder Years."
Novelists, too, continue to mine the territory first claimed by Mr. Roth. In "Two Guys From Verona," James Kaplan writes about two Jewish men who came along a generation after Mr. Roth. In the space of that generation, the issues have changed -- from wanting to fit in to wanting something more than the bland version of success the suburbs represents.
"Earlier generations struggled financially to live, to be Americans," Mr. Kaplan said in a recent interview. "Our generation, the generation twice removed, has struggled with the question of authenticity. Ease is not always easy."
The same pattern is played out among many of the ethnic groups. Like the Jewish successors to Neil Klugman and the Italian-Americans represented on the "Sopranos," black novelists like Benilde Little, who wrote "Good Hair," and Valerie Wilson Wesley of the Tamara Hayle detective series also write about upper-middle-class blacks who have escaped their Newark roots.
Then there is a whole genre of literature based on the Upper West Side town of Montclair, or fictional hamlets very much like it. Jon Katz ("Murder by Station Wagon") and Nancy Star ("Up Next"), residents of Montclair, come immediately to mind. And there is the work of a newly published author, Martin Golan, whose first novel about a troubled marriage, "My Wife's Last Lover," is explicitly set in Montclair.
Montclair's appeal as a backdrop is mostly a matter of coincidence, since so many writers live there. But an integrated upper middle-class community with artistic pretensions turns out to be a pretty interesting place to write about.
As Mr. Golan's narrator observes at one point, "Theirs was a perfect Montclair marriage: liberal politics wedded to a liberal income."
On the other hand, some authors who now call Montclair home have discovered that writing about their own social milieu can be a little dull. Valerie Wilson Wesley said she set her Tamara Hayle detective series in Newark -- at least the heroine, a black single mother, lives there -- because Montclair wasn't "interesting enough for a detective story."
And although Ms. Wesley switched genres, writing the love story "Ain't Nobody's Business If I Do," which was set in a place very much like Montclair, she said that by the last chapter she couldn't wait to get back to Tamara Hayle and Newark. "I was bored with these people," she said about the well-to-do black family. "It's just this middle-class angst."
IT all starts with Newark.
For the past quarter-century, Newark -- a fading industrial city -- has been synonymous with poverty, ugliness and crime. Even in its heyday, Newark was overshadowed by the more titanic city to its east.
Still, it has played a pivotal role to tens of thousands of immigrants -- and in the case of blacks, migrants from the South -- for whom it was the first stop. It is a place where the first generation struggles to survive, and from which the second generation, reaping those rewards, feels obliged to escape.
Newark is a place where many successful people are from. And these aren't successful people who were handed the world on a silver platter. These are people who emerged from modest working-class surroundings. "It's kind of a metaphor for upward mobility," Ms. Wesley said.
Clement Alexander Price, a professor of history at Rutgers University in Newark who studies the city, put it this way: "It's part of a very powerful American narrative. There's a bittersweet sensibility about Newark because of that. It's the most sentimentalized city I've ever seen."
And if there is one neighborhood in Newark that embodies that sensibility, it is Weequahic -- the fulcrum of Jewish life in the mid 20th century -- that became mixed racially in the 1960's.
William Helmreich, a sociologist who wrote about Weequahic in "The Enduring Community: The Jews of Newark and Metrowest," was stunned to find how potent the neighborhood's pull remains on Jews raised there a half-century ago.
W HEN he was invited to speak in Boca Raton, Fla., Dr. Helmreich was stunned to see almost 400 people show up. "All they knew was that a professor was going to talk about Jewish Newark," he said. "The subject of Newark was so dear to them."
Weequahic is Philip Roth country, a neighborhood so unabashedly Jewish in the post-war years that at football games, the students at Weequahic High (as Mr. Roth reported in "Portnoy's Complaint") would chant:
Ikey, Mikey, Jake, and Sam
We're the boys who eat no ham
We play football, baseball, soccer
We keep matzohs in our locker.
Although Mr. Roth mocked his roots in Portnoy's oversexed rants, his mockery was also mixed with an undeniable affection -- particularly for the Sunday morning softball games played by the neighborhood's middle-aged fathers:
"The chatter in the infield isn't chatter, its kibitzing, and (to this small boy, just beginning to learn the art of ridicule) hilarious, particularly the insults," writes Portnoy-cum-Roth. "I tell you, they are an endearing lot!"
In Mr. Roth's neighborhood, the boys and men alike seize upon baseball as the magical passport to becoming American, and the young boys fantasize about shiksas. (What girls and women fantasized about, except for the horrible dangers that could befall their men, is less clear, at least in Mr. Roth's books.)
The place Mr. Roth describes is hardly identifiable as a big city. It is a small town within a big city, which is what neighborhoods were in Newark before Interstates 280 and 78 severed the city and the riots finished off the rest.
"It had a great infrastructure," said Dr. Price of Rutgers. "It had a great downtown. I think a lot of it has to do with Newark having a very strong sense of place, where you had these intact ethnic neighborhoods, which gave people not only a sense of place but a sense of themselves."
Richard Wesley, a black screenwriter who lives in Montclair, grew up in the Ironbound section of Newark in an era when "everybody's fathers worked in factories" and most of the mothers stayed at home. He grew up surrounded by factories -- Bethlehem Steel, Sherwin Williams, Benjamin Moore -- but it was places like Smiley's, a small malt stand that sold comic books and sodas -- that provided the intimate landscape of his childhood.
Still, it was Weequahic, which became a middle-class black neighborhood in the 1960's, that held Mr. Wesley spellbound. "Weequahic was always a revelation," he said. "It was like going into another world.
"There were streets in Weequahic that looked just like this," he added, gesturing to the lush Montclair street where he now lives. When Mr. Wesley graduated from Howard University in 1973, he had hoped to move into Weequahic.
"Everybody did," remarked Benilde Little, the author of "Good Hair," who grew up there.
But when Mr. Wesley returned to New Jersey in 1973 and checked out the neighborhood of his fantasies, he found it a "total disappointment." He discovered a neighborhood that was, while still black, no longer particularly green, or middle class. "It was all those unemployed men standing on the corner on Chancellor," he lamented.
Ms. Little writes about that very transition in "Good Hair." Alice Andrews, the main character, grows up in Weequahic, taking piano and dance lessons and sleeping in a bedroom that is a replica of Gidget's: "We were sort of like the family in 'Father Knows Best,' except a tan version, and it was my mother who usually had the answers. We were living the American dream, I thought."
Then, she writes, "the 1967 riots happened," white families moved out overnight, selling their beautiful Tudors and colonials for peanuts," and "less-fortunate kids" moved in from the Central Ward. Alice Andrews's middle-class aspirations were mocked by new girls who cracked gum, threatened to beat her up and called her the worst insult they could think of -- "white girl."
"It was real difficult," recalled Ms. Little, who also lives in Montclair today. "The good news is, I figured out a way to use it. It's the thing, I'm sure, that caused me to be a writer."
S TILL, nobody has mined the passing of Weequahic like Mr. Roth. "American Pastoral," his 1997 novel about a Jewish athlete who marries a former Miss New Jersey and moves to the fictional country town of Old Rimrock, begins with a reunion of Weequahic High's 1950 graduating class. At the end of the affair, each alumnus is given a coffee mug containing a handful of rugelach -- "each a snail of sugar-dusted pastry dough, the cinnamon-lined chambers microscopically studded with midget raisins and chopped walnuts" -- which sends the book's narrator into a Proustian rapture.
The memory of Weequahic, in fact, beats like a tom-tom through the Roth canon. In "The Facts," his 1988 autobiography, Mr. Roth describes a conversation with the mother of an old childhood friend, whom he came across in Miami in 1982:
"As we sat talking at the edge of a gin-rummy game, she suddenly took hold of my hand and, smiling at me with deeply emotional eyes -- with that special heart-filled look that all our mothers had -- she said, 'Phil, the feeling there was among you boys -- I've never seen anything like it again.' I told her, altogether truthfully, that I haven't either."
The black poet Amiri Baraka, once known as LeRoi Jones, is like the bookend to Mr. Roth. His rants about Newark rival Mr. Roth's in their intensity, and his status as the spokesman of black Newark is at least equal to Mr. Roth's as the spokesman of Jewish Newark. One of Mr. Baraka's most famous epic poems is entitled "The System of Dante's Hell."
It reads like somebody's dream, volatile fragments, hard to decipher:
"Donald reached across the whore and pushed the door open. The car still moving about 20 miles an hour and the sudden air opened my eyes in the smoke . . . we all knew Montclair was like a beautifully furnished room and someone would hear and we would die in jail . . . "
If Newark is the innermost ring of hell, then surely the towns immediately surrounding it constitute close seconds -- places like Irvington and East Orange and Belleville. Belleville borders Bloomfield and Nutley, and the three towns together constitute what the comedian Rick Corso has jokingly referred to as the Pasta Triangle. It is somewhere in one of these neighborhoods that Uncle Junior of "The Sopranos" lives.
This is also the territory of the screenwriter Tom Cudworth, whose screenplay for the movie, "Ten Benny," begins with the words: "Wright's Field is in the south end of Bloomfield."
Mr. Cudworth still lives within walking distance of Wright's Field, a place where "all the great junior high fights were" and where generations of Bloomfield boys "smoked for the first time, French-kissed for the first time."
Places like Belleville and Bloomfield mark one generation's baby steps into the good life of suburbia. In Bloomfield, Mr. Cudworth said, the middle-aged men were so happy to own a patch of grass that they would never think to let anybody else mow it.
Bloomfield is also a place where idiosyncratic candy stores have not been completely obliterated by franchise convenience stores, and where suburbanization has not yet bleached all the grit and gumption out of its children. "The girl fights in this park were astounding," Mr. Cudworth recalled. "The girls were tough."
Nor were the girls the only ones who could handle themselves. "Ten Benny" tells the story about a young shoe salesman with big dreams and bigger debts, whose penchant for gambling runs him afoul of some minor gangsters. It is peopled with heavy drinkers, men down on their luck and fathers who die suddenly (as Mr. Cudworth's did).
"Whatever I had, my father found, or it fell off a truck," Mr. Cudworth said. "There was always a lot of bad news. And this was Disneyland compared to Newark."
T HE popularity of "The Sopranos" may be due in part to the fact that it so deftly bridges these worlds: the inner ring suburbs of Belleville and Bloomfield, and the outer ring neighborhoods like West Caldwell. In doing so, it captures the continuing American saga of assimilation.
Michael Aaron Rockland, a professor of American Studies at Rutgers, believes Tony Soprano is appealing because he straddles these two worlds.
"Yeah, he's a mobster, but he's a suburban dad," Dr. Rockland said. "He rubs people out but he goes to the school play."
The outermost circles of hell are places like Livingston, West Caldwell and Verona. Livingston is where the filmmaker Mr. Solondz grew up, and "Welcome to the Doll's House" is set in a town very much like it, although it was filmed in West Caldwell. This is a suburb of undistinguished split levels and tasteless Jews, seen very much through a Diane Arbus lens. A gawky 11-year-old girl with glasses is tortured by her classmates daily, but none of the self-absorbed adults around her notice. It's the American dream twisted into the American nightmare -- a classic third-generation coming-of-age story, done hip. It's Gothic and ironic at the same time.
Mr. Solondz's "Happiness" is even creepier. The story's main character is a psychiatrist who is also a pedophile. He lives in an upscale suburban house, tended by his idiotically self-satisfied wife, and molests his son's friend during a sleep-over.
This is similar territory, at least geographically, to that covered by Mr. Kaplan's "Two Guys from Verona" and Mr. Reiken's "Lost Legends."
Both books take place in the outer ring, and both, like Mr. Roth, deal with characters who are Jewish and male. While Mr. Kaplan's characters are Baby Boomers who grew up and remained in Verona, Mr. Reiken's tale is a coming-of-age story about Generation X.
Like the movie "Welcome to the Doll's House," Mr. Reiken's "Lost Legends" is also set in Livingston, but it is a slightly kinder, gentler Livingston than the one portrayed by Mr. Solondz. True, there is a rough crowd of teenagers who go to parties to get drunk and break stuff, and there is an Italian neighbor who is always getting beaten up over gambling debts. But the main character, Anthony Rubin, is a thoroughly assimilated Jew with a heart of gold, who also happens to be the star of his high school ice hockey team.
The central theme of Mr. Reiken's book is the barriers to true love, played against a background of class and ethnic tensions. You have Jewish boys falling for Italian girls, Jewish girls falling for Irish guys, and a Polish girl who marries a Jew for financial security rather than love. But all this serves as a foil and contrast for the tenderness of Anthony, who at the end of the book, beholds his Livingston backyard as a place that was "both beautiful and horrible, a place both magical and empty."
Mr. Reiken's book is steeped in Essex County, from the Eppes Essen restaurant in Livingston to the Turtle Back Zoo in West Orange.
"I guess in a certain way I found the Turtle Back Zoo hilarious," Mr. Reiken said. "It was certainly the worst zoo in the history of time. There's something absurd about it, and on the other hand, completely natural about it."
Mr. Kaplan's "Two Guys From Verona," with middle-aged baby boomers for its central characters, reads more like a New Jersey version of a Tom Wolfe novel. Its two main characters are Will and Joel, who have remained in Verona, the town where they grew up. Will has gone into the family box business, and lives a dreary domestic life enlivened only by sexual fantasies and materialistic desires.
Joel, who got his girlfriend pregnant as a teenager, is still living at home with his mother and working in a sub shop. The Verona Mr. Kaplan draws is populated by expensive cars, cutthroat tennis matches, middle-aged women with freckled cleavage, menacing teenagers and the occasional mobster, and it is financed through rising real estate prices and a great deal of debt.
Mr. Kaplan, who grew up in South Orange, said that at first he thought the themes in his novel were universal. "I wanted to make the case that it could be any suburb, because I wanted to sell the book," he said.
But he now realizes that much of the story's charm comes from its location. His characters visit such familiar landmarks as Pal's Cabin, the Mall at Short Hills and the South Mountain Reservation. If Mr. Kaplan's eye was trained to notice the nuance of neighborhood (in which "ticky-tacky houses" will go in the "mid to high threes," for example), it may be because he grew up in a place where the stratifications of social class were so visible, like the concentric circles in a tree trunk.
Mr. Kaplan, who now lives in Westchester, said that when he thinks of the Essex County landscape of his childhood, he pictures "The Swimmer," the John Cheever short story that was made into a movie in 1968, in which the main character crosses the county by swimming from pool to pool.
"In my mind, it's a network of country clubs," Mr. Kaplan said. "And there were dozens of them, each with its own sociology and status system."
A ND so Mr. Kaplan's Verona is not just Anyplace, U.S.A., but a very specific mixture of strip malls, side streets, mountains and parks.
"It's very much Essex County, the Essex County that I knew," he said. "Regardless of what happens, regardless of the Internet, regardless of the mall, regardless of television, the land endures."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tension between gritty urban life and the wealthier suburbs has become a classic theme of modern American storytelling. Essex County -- with places like Newark, right, and Montclair, left, -- offers a collection of haves, have-a-little-lesses and have-a-little-bit-mores. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg 1); Some authors from Montclair have found their social milieu dull. Valerie Wilson Wesley set books in Newark, above, because Montclair wasn't "interesting enough."; If there is a neighborhood in Newark that embodies a bittersweet sensibility about Newark, it is Weequahic Park, above -- the fulcrum of Jewish life in the mid 20th century -- that became mixed racially in the 60's. Even in its heyday, Newark, at left in 1947, was overshadowed by New York. Still, it played a pivotal role to millions, for whom it was the first stop. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times); "Lost Legends" is set in Livingston.; A mystery by Valerie Wilson Wesley.; How often can a reader or a moviegoer find a town like Belleville, where the police and the Mafiosi party side by side? Or upper-middle-class Jewish shtetls like Millburn, right, or Livingston? Or towns like Verona, above, where the subtlest gradations of social class can be read by Christmas decorations? (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (74%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (74%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITY LIFE (90%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); CITIES (77%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (76%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (76%); POETRY (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); CHRISTMAS (69%); 

PERSON: PHILIP MILTON ROTH (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



389 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: N.J. LAW;
111 Sex Offenders, No Takers

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
By month's end, a court order will force the state Department of Corrections to remove 111 high-risk sex offenders from a temporary lock-up in Kearney. The problem is, the state is still looking for a place to put them.
Since the Legislature passed a law two years ago that allowed the courts to hold dangerous offenders beyond their terms, the state has been scrambling for a place to keep them -- and being met with the kind of reception usually reserved for a toxic waste dump or a trash-burning incinerator. 
 Last week in Maurice River Township, a small town on the marshy shore of the Delaware Bay, residents jammed the municipal building to oppose a plan to hold the offenders in in a new facility near Bayside State Prison. "I am very concerned about this filth coming down here," said Al Hooper, who lives in Maurice River, to a volley of applause from his neighbors. "It is a smear. We don't need it."
So far, every town that has been proposed as the site for the Special Treatment Unit has either sued, protested or both.
Woodbridge, which was originally picked as the best location, has tied the plan up in court for nearly a year. Hudson County sued after the Department of Corrections temporarily placed the offenders in the former Hudson County Jail in Kearney, and a state judge has ordered the department to remove the men by Sept. 29.
State officials thought they had solved the problem earlier this month, when the town committee in Maurice River appeared to welcome the new unit in return for annual payments of $800,000. The state planned to put the offenders in a new building inside the razor-wire fences of Bayside State Prison.
But after freeholders from Cumberland County -- already home to four prisons -- condemned the plan, the town committee reversed itself and told the state to look elsewhere. After a special meeting in the town hall last week in Leesburg, Freeholder Louis Magazzu vowed a legal "dogfight" to stop the Department of Corrections. "We will take this as far as necessary," Mr. Magazzu said.
Late last week, Governor Whitman's office said that the state had run out of time. Her spokesman, Peter McDonough, said the governor would decide in the next 10 days where to house the inmates. Mr. McDonough said that unless another community came forward with a better site, which was unlikely, the governor would choose between Woodbridge and Maurice River -- with or without local consent.
"We have two communities that are equally opposed to it, and there is no way to measure whether one is more opposed than the other," he said. "We have a law, and we have to live up to it."
In the short run, the offenders will most likely be sent to East Jersey State Prison in Woodbridge. State officials first chose Woodbridge because experts trained to deal with sex offenders were already at the prison. But the town responded with a lawsuit claiming the state had violated its own rules in picking the Woodbridge site.
Richard L. Rudin, the lawyer representing the town, said the state had refused to turn over crucial documents that Woodbridge needed in order to file its objections.
Mr. Rudin said the town cited "serious environmental problems" that could be caused by the project, and also raised questions about security at East Jersey State. He said the town wanted the corrections department to turn over its master plan for all the state's prisons, but that so far state officials had refused.
The state judge handling the case has appointed a special master to review the request and has forbidden the state to move forward until the issue is resolved.
For his part, Mayor McGreevey condemned the state's handling of the situation last week, particularly the temporary transfer, as "an abysmal failure of the administration to deal in good faith with the people of Woodbridge."
But it is the governor's office that feels whipsawed; after reaching an agreement with Maurice River, it has to start over. And while Mr. McDonough said the governor wanted the cooperation of the municipalities, he said that she had to consider the wider interests of the state. "Mr. McGreevey is thinking like a mayor, and the governor has to think like a governor," he said.
Building public projects has never been easy in New Jersey, the most densely populated state. John Weingart, a former assistant commissioner of the state Department of Environmental Protection who headed the state effort to store low-level radioactive waste in the late 1990's, said local governments often accepted projects, only to back down after public outcries.
"As soon as people learned about the possibility of a waste disposal facility, they felt they should have been alerted earlier," Mr. Weingart said. "That led to the reaction that the process must be rigged."
Eventually, opposition killed plans for the dump. After 12 townships rejected state overtures, New Jersey made a deal this year with South Carolina to take the waste.
Mr. Weingart could easily have been talking about the state's failed bargain with Maurice River, a sparsely populated town that houses two state prisons, Bayside and South Jersey.
Once a center of the country's oyster fishery, Maurice River never recovered from a blight that decimated the Delaware Bay oysters in the late 1950's. Marinas and boat slips cluster along the river, and boarded-up shucking houses dot the two-lane roads that embrace the weedy shore. Nearly half of the people who live here are inmates, and the Department of Corrections is the biggest employer in Cumberland County.
Town officials were concerned about about imposing yet another property tax increase this year, when the state offered hefty annual payments as part of a deal to build the sex offender unit within the grounds of Bayside State Prison. The $800,000 offer would be in addition to the $300,000 the town received for the two prisons, and Mayor Ronald D. Riggins Sr. said it would have eliminated the need for a tax increase.
Initial reaction to the plan was muted. Mr. Riggins, who is also a sergeant at Southern State Prison, said a small crowd attended the town's public hearing last month, and Town Hall only received two phone calls. But when freeholders read about plan, two of them held back-to-back news conferences demanding that it be reconsidered. By last Monday's meeting, town residents turned out to protest the plan, raising questions about security.
Freeholder Director Douglas H. Fisher, who has been one of the plan's most outspoken critics, said the state had bullied the town into accepting the new facility and taken advantage of its economic difficulties.
"It is disgusting, any time they have a problem and they are not sure where to put something, they turn to Cumberland County," Mr. Fisher said. "We feel we have done our fair share and we do not need to accept these violent sexual predators."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Norman Franckle Jr. of the Maurice River town committee, above left, listened last week as Jerry Baumgarten, of Dorchester, left, spoke out against a proposed facility for high-risk sex offenders on the grounds of Bayside State Prison in the Cumberland County community. (Photographs by David Hunsinger and, above, Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PRISONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); JUDGES (73%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (70%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (70%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (70%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (56%); 

PERSON: PETER MCDONOUGH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



390 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS;
$400 Million Man a Socialist? Don't Tell That to a Socialist

BYLINE: By David Kocieniewski; David Kocieniewski reports from Trenton for The New York Times.

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
Running for office as a Socialist is the ultimate exercise in egalitarianism, so Greg Pason, the Socialist Party USA's candidate for U. S. Senate seat from New Jersey, has no complaints about shuttling around the campaign trail aboard New Jersey Transit trains.
Mr. Pason doesn't bemoan the fact that his job as the party's national secretary pays $12 an hour (the same figure as the party's proposed minimum wage) or that his budget for the primary was a paltry $1,370. 
 But Mr. Pason is a bit bewildered that with Election Day just seven weeks away, the candidate who many voters think of when they hear the word socialist is Jon Corzine, the Democratic candidate who is a former Wall Street chief executive worth $400 million.
In Mr. Pason's past campaigns, his party's platform (based more on Western European Social Democracies than on Marxism or Leninism) made it simple to distinguish himself from his mainstream opponents. Health care? Mr. Pason proposed a government-financed medical program for everyone. Education? Preschool? Free, from cradle to grave.
With Mr. Corzine running, Mr. Pason suddenly finds himself with formidable competition in the race to propose expansive social spending. Mr. Corzine has called for the government to provide universal preschool, free college tuition for any student with a B average or better and universal health care (although he later revised that promise to "universal access at health care").
During the Democratic primary, former Gov. Jim Florio branded Mr. Corzine a "bearded socialist." The Republican Senate nominee, Bob Franks, calls Mr. Corzine's ideas radical and extreme but stops short of invoking Karl Marx.
In case anyone misses the implication, Chuck Haytaian, chairman of the state Republican Party, describes Mr. Corzine's platform as evidence of a socialistic mentality. While some of those comments were intended, at least partly, as barbed humor, Mr. Pason isn't amused.
"Jon Corzine's using our language, calling for universal this and universal that, but he's really advocating more corporate welfare than anything else," Mr. Pason said. "I mean, what is universal access to health care? Anyone can walk into an emergency room. The trouble is, thousands of people have no way to pay for the massive bills they'll face once they walk out."
Despite the fact that New Jersey has fared incredibly well during the current Wall Street boom, Mr. Pason believes his call for economic populism will resonate, especially on the issue of regulating health insurance companies. But it will be difficult for Mr. Pason to get his message out because Mr. Corzine has a gargantuan advantage in the ultimate capitalist tool: campaign money. Mr. Corzine spent $35 million in the primary, and is paying $1.2 million a week for television advertising. Mr. Pason's campaign operation is somewhat more modest.
"I hand out a lot of leaflets and talk to a lot of people on street corners," he said.
If Mr. Pason's task sounds overwhelming, the odds are even more daunting for Nancy Rosenstock, the other Socialist in the race. Ms. Rosenstock is running as the standard bearer for the Socialist Workers' Party, which holds Cuba as its model of an enlightened government. She does not plan to file a report with the Federal Election Commission because her campaign will be run on less than $1,000.
Ms. Rosenstock acknowledges that her time on the trail has been limited by the demands of her job as a sewing machine operator in a garment factory, but she was stunned to hear her party's good name was being sullied by its association with a man as far removed from the means of production as Mr. Corzine.
"I've never heard that," she said, howling with laughter. "He's a millionaire, a hundred millionaire. That automatically disqualifies him. I can tell you that it's not the Socialists calling him that. It must be the conservative Republicans."
To Mr. Corzine, who hopes to appeal to the moderates who dominate New Jersey politics, such talk is encouraging. Despite the banquet of social spending Mr. Corzine proposes, he rejects the true Socialists' calls to slash the military budget and impose steep tax rates -- from 70 to 100 percent -- for anyone who earns more than $200,000 a year.
In fact, the only major issue on which Mr. Corzine is to the left of the Socialists is gun control. He favors strict laws to curb the sale and possession of handguns, including licensing and registration firearms.
Mr. Pason said it was none of the government's business. Ms. Rosenstock, who believes that real change will not occur until there are uprisings like the civil rights movement, says ominously that the government has no right to disarm the people.
While it is unlikely that Mr. Corzine will ever meet with the two card-carrying Socialist candidates to publicly compare their platforms, he and Mr. Pason did have a chance encounter recently as both candidates worked the same crowd at a public event on Labor Day.
"When I introduced myself and told him I was running as a Socialist," Mr. Pason said, "he told me, 'That's funny. some people say that I'm, a Socialist.' So I told him that if he'd invite me to the debate, I'd show the world what a real Socialist is, and make him look moderate."
Four days later, Mr. Corzine finally ended weeks of delays and agreed to a series of three debates with Mr. Franks, but Mr. Pason and Ms. Rosenstock were not invited. It's enough to make any self-respecting Socialist shave his beard in protest.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Kocieniewski.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOCIALIST PARTY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIALIST PARTY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); BUDGETS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); TUITION FEES (71%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); INSURANCE (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (50%); 

PERSON: JON CORZINE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



391 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 14; Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Alix Peterson, Thabiso Zwane

 BODY:
Alix O'Reily Peterson and Thabiso Timothy Zwane were married on Friday at the Crocker Tavern in Barnstable, Mass. The Rev. George Chapman performed the Episcopal ceremony.
Mrs. Zwane, 25, is a doctoral candidate in public policy at Harvard University and a fellow at the Center for International Development, a research institute at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. She graduated summa cum laude from Boston University, from which she also received a master's degree in economics. She is a daughter of Judy A. Peterson and James E. Peterson of Northglenn, Colo. Her father, who retired as the manager of the Peterson Paint Company, a store in Pueblo, Colo., is now an environmental risk management consultant in Denver. Her mother is a lawyer in private practice in Northglenn and a freelance book editor. 
 Mr. Zwane, who is 29 and a certified public accountant, is a senior associate in the Boston office of PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting firm. He graduated from Northeastern University. His parents, Gloria M. V. Zwane and Timothy M. J. Zwane, live in Mbabane, Swaziland, where his father, who was Swaziland's ambassador to the European Economic Community from 1973 to 1976 and later principal secretary at the Ministry of Tourism, is now a management and business development consultant. The bridegroom's mother runs a catering business in Mbabane. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SWAZILAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); PUEBLO, CO, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (83%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (83%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (83%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (83%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SWAZILAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); PUEBLO, CO, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (74%); ACCOUNTING (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (71%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (71%); RISK MANAGEMENT (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (69%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (68%); CATERING SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, ALIX O'REILY (ALIX O'REILY ZWANE); ZWANE, THABISO TIMOTHY JOHN F KENNEDY (58%); JOHN F KENNEDY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



392 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 64 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFING: BUSINESS;
UNEMPLOYMENT UP

BYLINE: By John Holl

 BODY:
New Jersey's unemployment rate rose to 4.0 percent in August, up from 3.7 percent in July. The national unemployment rate was 4.1 percent. According to the New Jersey Department of Labor, jobs in the private sector rose by 2,000 employees despite the Verizon workers' strike, while 2,800 government employees lost their jobs because of the completion of the census. John Holl 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); NEW JERSEY DEPARTMENT (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEPARTMENT (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); LAYOFFS (86%); CIVIL SERVICES (84%); STRIKES (84%); DISMISSALS (84%); 

PERSON: JOHN HOLL (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



393 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
On a New Map, the Income Gap Grows

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
DESPITE all the talk about prosperity in this digital age, tax return data indicates that the rising tide of bits and bytes is lifting the yachts much more than the rowboats.
From 1986 through 1997, the latest year for which detailed figures are available from the Internal Revenue Service, the average income of the richest 1 percent of Americans soared 89 percent, to $517,713 from $273,562. 
 Those figures are after federal income taxes have been paid, and are expressed in constant 1997 dollars to eliminate the effects of inflation. To be counted among the top 1 percent in 1997 required an after-tax income of at least $268,889, suggesting a pretax income of at least $440,000.
But the incomes of those at the top did not rise steadily over those 12 years. The average declined from 1989 to 1991 because of a mild recession. And it dropped again in 1993, but that is probably a fluke, attributable to significant numbers of wealthy people who cashed in deferred income in 1992, in anticipation of an increase in the top income tax rate to 39.6 percent, a rate paid only by the top 1 percent of taxpayers.
During those same 12 years, the bottom 90 percent of Americans, meaning everyone who took home less than $80,000 after paying federal income taxes, did not fare nearly as well.
In 1997, the average income for the bottom 90 percent was $23,815, up a scant $364, or 1.6 percent, from 1986. This average also fluctuated during the 12 years, but the changes, up or down, were less than 2 percent in 11 of those years. The fluctuations were so tiny that in the chart accompanying this article they disappear, and the line appears flat.
The figures were computed from an I.R.S. statistics-of-income report by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a nonprofit Washington group that advocates policies that it says will benefit the poor.
The center's report did not include one fact that illustrates the sharp divergence between the fortunes of the economic elite and the rest of America: From 1996 to 1997, the increase in average income for the top 1 percent of Americans -- a gain of $69,009 -- was nearly triple the total average income of the bottom 90 percent.
Over nine years of economic expansion, the question of whether the fruits of the boom are being distributed fairly has become central in American politics. Competing policy proposals from Democrats and Republicans on issues ranging from taxation to health care to retirement savings are often based on fundamentally different interpretations of the available data. And the quality and reliability of the data itself is often hotly disputed by advocates in each camp.
There are many ways to measure income, none of them perfect. Tax-return data like that examined by the center has the advantage of coming from documents that all taxpayers sign under penalty of perjury, and of being subject to comparison with W-2 and Form 1099 reports from third parties listing payments of wages, dividends, interest and royalties. Rent and capital-gain income, which goes mostly to the affluent, depends on the reporting of those who receive the income.
Edward N. Wolff, an economist at New York University who studies the wealthy, said tax-return data gave a reliable picture of those with the highest incomes. But for the bottom 90 percent, he said, "the figures are biased downward," because a substantial amount of Social Security and other income is not picked up on tax returns. Income from tax-free bonds and the like is also omitted from tax returns, but it goes almost entirely to the wealthy.
ANOTHER widely used measure of income, the Census Bureau survey data on median household income, also showed little change in overall income from 1986 to 1997.
Adjusted for inflation, the median income rose just 1.5 percent during those years, to $37,005 in 1997 dollars. Unlike the tax data, the Census Bureau's survey figures tend to understate incomes at the high end, because of the methodology used to record large incomes. The bureau puts a cap on all income components -- salaries, for example, are capped at $999,999 -- so that a few extremely high incomes do not distort the survey averages.
Those who report the greatest share of the nation's income also pay the greatest share of income taxes. In 1997, the I.R.S. data shows, people with incomes of $100,000 or more, about 5.9 percent of all taxpayers, made 34.5 percent of all the money and paid 53.7 percent of the income taxes collected that year.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Rich Are Richer"
From 1986 to 1997, average after-tax income nearly doubled for the top 1 percent of taxpayers, while remaining virtually unchanged for almost everyone else. Figures are in 1997 dollars.
 
Chart shows the after-tax income since 1986.
(Source: Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, based on I.R.S. data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON GROUP-ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION (53%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INCOME TAX (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



394 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Jerome J. Heppelmann;
PBHG Mid-Cap Value Fund

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
VALUE stocks have been struggling back after nearly two years in the dumps, and Jerome J. Heppelmann, manager of the $116.6 million PBHG Mid-Cap Value fund, thinks he knows why. "Deep value hasn't worked because there haven't been any positive catalysts to get investors interested in the cheapest of the cheap names," Mr. Heppelmann said. "I look for companies with good near-term business dynamics, like rising earnings, new products or stock buybacks. That gives the buyer good news, which hopefully will attract other buyers."
Such catalysts have added value for the fund's shareholders. PBHG Mid-Cap Value returned 26.7 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Sept. 14 versus 10.6 percent for its mid-cap blend peers, according to Morningstar Inc. 
 Mr. Heppelmann, 29, started as an analyst for the fund in the fall of 1997 and took over in June 1999. He also runs the Small Cap Value and Focused Value funds as well as the value portion of the Strategic Small Company fund for PBHG, a unit of United Asset Management based in Wayne, Pa.
Many value managers, he said, have drifted away from the teachings of Benjamin Graham and David L. Dodd, the authors of the 1934 value investing bible "Security Analysis." Today, Mr. Heppelmann said, "people buy companies just on valuation, rather than taking into account the company's potential growth rate and the interest rate environment."
In his quest for 100 or so investment prospects among companies with market valuations of $1 billion to $8 billion, he factors in these elements, using a Graham-and-Dodd matrix that prices companies based on their price-to-earnings multiples. The two axes of the matrix are current long-term interest rates and the company's estimated five-year earnings growth rate. When the 30-year Treasury bond pays about 6 percent interest -- as it does now -- the matrix suggests that he pay up to 35.6 times earnings for a company with an estimated five-year growth rate of 20 percent a year.
Besides valuation, he looks at long-term growth and near-term business dynamics. He measures the three factors several ways, and, he said, "if two of the three legs are strong, I'm willing to take a little less on the third leg."
Generally, he wants historical and expected revenue growth averaging 6 to 8 percent a year and earnings growth of 10 to 12 percent. "I don't want earnings growth from cost-cutting," he said. "The mark of a healthy company is top-line revenue growth that drives earnings."
He measures near-term business dynamics by looking for expanding margins and revised earnings estimates. He also watches for things like product introductions and insider buying.
Mr. Heppelmann uses a variety of valuation measures, depending on the industry. For energy companies and casinos, he generally wants an enterprise value -- market capitalization plus debt -- of five or six times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda. For cable companies, he figures on at least $4,000 of market capitalization per subscriber. For finance companies, he wants multiples of 10 times cash flow.
He tends to trade around his positions, buying into weakness and trimming 10 or 20 percent off them as prices rise. In volatile times like these, he conceded, that strategy means a lot of turnover. For the fiscal year ended in March, the rate was 733 percent, partly a result of a much smaller asset base. He expects future turnover to average 150 percent, still high.
THE fund's biggest holding is Devon Energy, an oil and gas exploration and production company in Oklahoma City. Mr. Heppelmann is bullish on natural gas because of growing domestic energy needs. And a natural-gas shortage is the near-term business dynamic. "As we head into winter, we are running 20 percent below the five-year average and last year's storage levels, coming off one of the warmest winters on record," he said. Even so, the stock is cheap, trading at less than five times Ebitda, he said, "because people think it's a cyclical industry and it's peaked."
He bought shares in August 1999 at $38.49. They are now at $62, or around 14 times consensus Ebitda estimates of $4.45 a share this year.
Another favorite is Cablevision, the cable TV company in Bethpage, N.Y., which has holdings that include the New York Knicks and the Wiz, and a controlling interest in Madison Square Garden. Long-term demand for the company's services is clear, Mr. Heppelmann said, because "more and more services like telephone, data and Internet access are coming across cable TV lines."
In the near term, he added, Cablevision is a top player in a consolidating industry and in a region with a highly concentrated population. Not including the value of its entertainment and programming unit, Rainbow Media Holdings, for which a tracking stock is planned, the company sells for less than $3,000 a subscriber -- a bargain, he said.
He bought shares in April at $63.88, adjusted for splits. They now trade at $68.38, or about 12 times Wall Street's Ebitda estimates of $5.87 a share.
He also likes Harrah's Entertainment, the casino company that has pioneered a frequent-gambler program intended to promote customer loyalty. The outlook for casinos is strong, he said, because of the economic boom.
Harrah's stock trades at six times Ebitda, fairly cheap, Mr. Heppelmann said, because investors worried that the market break last spring would grow into a recession. In January, he bought shares at $24.34. They closed on Friday at $27.44, or around 17 times Wall Street's 2000 earnings forecast of $1.65 a share.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerome J. Heppelmann, second from right, with friends at dinner in Manhattan. His fund looks for promising changes at value companies. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "PBHG Mid-cap Value Fund"
Category: Mid-cap blend
Net assets: $116.6 million
Inception: May 1997
Manager: Jerome J. Heppelmann since June 1999
Minimum purchase: $2,500 ($2,000 I.R.A.)
Portfolio turnover: 733%
3-year annualized return through Sept. 14: 26.7%
Category average: 10.6%
 
Sector breakdown
Energy: 21.2%
Services: 14.2%
Utilities: 10.8%
Financials: 18.0%
Industrial cyclicals: 10.8%
Other: 13.5%
 
Fees
Front-end load: None
Deferred load: None
12b-1 fee: None
Expense ratio: 1.33%
Technology: 11.5%
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); UNITED ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); 

PERSON: JEROME J HEPPELMANN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



395 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3339 words

HEADLINE: A High-Tech Vision Lifts Fidelity

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
CROSS HAIRS are trained on the green-and-yellow home page of DLJ Direct, the online brokerage firm. Literally. It is a Tuesday in late August at the new Fidelity Center for Applied Technology here, specifically, in a "usability" lab of the "human interface design department." This is where Fidelity Investments, the nation's largest mutual fund manager, does some of its most important research and reconnaissance.
Today, Dawna Lovett is sitting in what looks like a bland office, with a desk, a lamp, a desktop computer and a window with partly drawn blinds. She is wearing a black headband with a white nodule placed above her left eye. A man with a Ph.D. in engineering psychology peeks over her shoulder. What looks like a Polaroid camera sits on a desk, between Ms. Lovett and the computer. It is actually a high-resolution infrared camera shooting beams of light into one of her eyes as she looks at the Web site. 
 Not to worry. The light simply monitors eyeball movements. Ms. Lovett seems fine.
So does Fidelity. Much has changed since this fund giant lost its aura of invincibility a few years ago. In 1996, Fidelity's top money manager, Jeffrey N. Vinik, led its flagship Magellan fund to the bottom tier of industry rankings after a disastrous bet on bonds, and few of Fidelity's other funds beat the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Edward Crosby Johnson III, the company's longtime chief executive, was so stung by the headline "Has Fidelity Lost It?" on a cover of Fortune magazine in 1997, that he largely stopped speaking to the press.
A maelstrom of mergers and acquisitions, meanwhile, has transformed the financial services industry. But Fidelity has kept to a more insular path, partly by using a Japanese management philosophy, known as kaizen and followed by Mr. Johnson, that emphasizes continuous improvement and retooling from within.
One would be hard-pressed to call the strategy anything but a success. This year, revenue is growing at a robust 41 percent rate, and profits more than doubled in the first half of 2000, compared with the corresponding period of 1999. Assets under management grew 25 percent last year; the firm now manages a staggering $1 trillion and is custodian to an additional $608 billion.
Controlled by Mr. Johnson and his family, the privately held Fidelity manages the most retail and retirement mutual fund assets, has the most online brokerage customer accounts and runs the largest fund supermarket, where it sells its competitors' brands alongside its own. Fidelity also has a controlling stake in Colt Telecommunications, a $22 billion provider of local phone service in Paris and Frankfurt; runs the 426-room Seaport Hotel in Boston, and owns BostonCoach, a limousine service.
But what is most striking about Fidelity is its drive to mesh next-generation technology with customer service. If its funds do not shoot out the lights, as they once did, they perform decently now. And for a company entrenched in the retirement market, consistency and service are emphasized over top-tier performance.
"Performance continues to be extremely important," said Tracey Esherick, the Fidelity executive in charge of Powerstreet, the company's online brokerage firm. "But how you service a relationship is critical."
Technology workers now outnumber Fidelity fund managers, analysts and traders by more than 18 to 1. Spending on technology passed $1.5 billion last year -- far beyond the totals for many competitors.
So what is the new Fidelity seeking behind those infrared lights?
 
The Technology
Pixels, Pagers
And Customers
"Look at every pixel on the Web page as if it were a valuable piece of Boston real estate," Steve Elterich, the chief of Fidelity's e-business operations, recalled Mr. Johnson once instructing him.
The technology center, known as FCAT (and pronounced F-Cat) is not an operation that one might expect to find at an asset management firm. Built last year, it is a multipurpose laboratory and workshop, where Fidelity tests and demonstrates next-generation technologies. There are Palm Pilots set up for online trading. There are brokerage-ready pagers and cell phones of all shapes and sizes. There are even scanners that identify a user by his eyeballs or the shape of his head.
"It's an in-house think tank related to technology," said Robert L. Reynolds, who was appointed Fidelity's chief operating officer in June. "It's looking for new applications, but it's also a place where technology people around Fidelity can get together."
All manner of research is taking place -- there is even a prototype system to let its legion of 5,000 phone representatives peek onto the home computer screen of a customer if he or she asks for help. But the depth to which Fidelity seeks to understand its customers is most apparent in the usability lab.
The window with the Venetian blinds is actually a one-way mirror. On the other side is an observation room. It has seven monitors, lighted buttons, various levers and knobs, a seven-foot-high stack of audio-visual equipment, several videocassette recorders, a DVD player and some microphones.
While one of the monitors shows an image of DLJ Direct, the online brokerage firm owned by Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, another shows how Ms. Lovett, a Fidelity employee, is reading an article on Fidelity.com. Usually, the test subject would be a volunteer from Fidelity's customer base, but Ms. Lovett is filling in while a reporter visits.
Another monitor shows the Web page that Ms. Lovett is reading, but with a digital target superimposed and flickering across the screen.
The cross hairs show where Ms. Lovett is looking at any particular moment. A third monitor in the room displays an outsized blowup of her eye, tracking the exact pixels that she is viewing. The idea is to fine-tune the Web site to eliminate every wasteful click.
That level of usability testing "is incredibly, exceedingly rare," said Jakob Nielsen, a former Sun Microsystems engineer and founder of the Nielsen Norman Group, a Silicon Valley firm that consults with companies on Web site design. Mr. Nielsen said that while usability testing was common in many industries, he had heard of eye-tracking tests being conducted only at universities like Stanford, for Internet-related research, and by the Navy and a few technology companies.
"There's no doubt it pays off dramatically, particularly for a site where people do a huge amount of transactions," Mr. Nielsen said. "Errors are a disaster for that type of system. The return on the investment is so huge that you can't even discuss the cost of building a lab. It's trivial."
Fidelity's usability labs -- there are two at FCAT -- have produced thousands of hours of videotape that will be analyzed.
"We're embarking on some major redesigns of our site," Mr. Elterich said. "That's really been as a result of feedback we've gotten out of bringing in customers and having them interact with our site, and then trying and experimenting with different navigation approaches."
Thomas S. Tullis -- the man with the Ph.D. in engineering psychology -- is a Fidelity vice president who is in charge of the 14-person human interface design department. Fidelity built its first lab back in 1993, he said, but he has been in the field of usability testing since its infancy -- his dissertation, at Rice University, was on the layouts of computer screens. He also helped set up a usability lab at Bell Laboratories 20 years ago.
"Of course, back then, we were doing usability testing of mainframe screens," he said. "It was very different from what we do now."
Fidelity.com is a tightly woven collection of dozens of subsites, from Powerstreet to NetBenefits, which is used by Fidelity's retirement plan customers. Mr. Tullis is trying to make the site's total of 30,000 pages as easy to navigate as possible -- but he is also watching Fidelity's competition closely.
A monitor near Ms. Lovett is flashing images of Web sites run by various rivals: DLJ Direct, Prudential, E*Trade, Scottrade. These are recordings of previous tests, and the cross hairs are sweeping over each page.
"We have to follow Microsoft, we have to follow Intuit, we have to follow Schwab, we have to follow Citicorp," said Ms. Esherick, the head of Powerstreet. "Almost everybody's a competitor."
Ms. Esherick said that she had even been watching how Lands' End and Neiman Marcus were using instant messaging online to communicate with their customers, and that Fidelity planned to start a similar, pilot program in a few weeks.
It also plans to open a third lab for more infrared eyeball-testing, on cell phones, pagers and the like. "It's really a different environment," Ms. Esherick said of wireless devices. "How big is the screen for trading? Is it big enough for an active trader? How easy is the keyboard for transactions" when you use little two-way pagers?
It is no wonder that Fidelity spends so much on technology: Last year, the total was between $1.5 billion and $2 billion. By contrast, Stilwell Financial, the parent of the rival Janus Capital, spent about $75.8 million on capital expenditures, which includes technology, while Charles Schwab, the big discount and online broker, spent about $126 million on technology.
"It's notable for their size how quickly they've been able to migrate on the Web," Matthew L. Vetto, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, said of Fidelity. "Particularly in areas such as wireless devices, they've been at the forefront."
James Lowell, a former writer for Fidelity-owned publications who now publishes Fidelity Investor, a newsletter that tracks the company, said the big fund companies obviously "had to spend a few hundred million dollars to get online."
"But nobody comes close to Fidelity and its expenditures on its proprietary technological system," he added. "If there is one thing Fidelity has always been intensely paranoid about, it is being left out of the loop."
By most accounts, that fear starts at the top.
 
The Philosophy
Looking East
For Guidance
There is a small conference room on the 25th floor of Fidelity's fund operations office at 1 Federal Street in downtown Boston. Different building, different day in August. The conference room, about the size of two parking spaces, has a table and a few chairs. There is a large drawing pad on an easel at one end, covered with sketches of screen shots from Fidelity's Web site.
At the other end of the room, scrawled on a whiteboard, are a rough pie chart, along with arrows, circles, squiggles and financial lingo like "asset allocation."
Perched above the board is a stern notice: "PROTECT FIDELITY'S INFORMATION. Erase the whiteboard. Take documents with you."
Certainly, Fidelity is a private, secretive company. Even its nondescript headquarters, at 82 Devonshire Street, a few blocks away, whispers where others shout.
That building is around the corner from an office of Brown Brothers Harriman, a private bank, whose entrance is proudly announced by six faux columns and a fluttering crimson-and-white flag emblazoned with the firm's initials. By contrast, one could easily miss the entrance to 82 Devonshire, with only a small plaque that says simply "Fidelity Building."
The quiet approach has everything to do with the Boston family that founded the company 54 years ago and has run it ever since. At the top is Mr. Johnson, 70, the patriarch, who has been in charge since 1977, when his father, Edward Crosby Johnson II, handed the reins to him.
After a recent reshuffling of several top lieutenants, there was a fresh round of speculation on who might be in line to succeed Mr. Johnson: one of his deputies or his eldest daughter, Abigail P. Johnson, who owns the most shares and is an executive in Fidelity's fund management business.
Neither Fidelity nor the Johnsons would say for sure, though the bigger question may be how the company will change after Mr. Johnson is gone. By most accounts, Mr. Johnson, commonly known as Ned, is an idea man who leaves the day-to-day operations to top deputies but does not hesitate to insert himself into any area of his company. His is not the traditional approach to management, at least not in Boston and other parts of the Western world.
"We will embody kaizen -- each of us making small, gradual improvements in how we do our jobs," Mr. Johnson said in a letter to shareholders in Fidelity's 1999 annual report. "Taken together, these small steps can make a big difference in helping us become more productive and cost-efficient."
Japanese management philosophies enjoyed some popularity in the 1980's but were certainly out of fashion when the Asian economy went into free fall in the late 1990's. Still, like his father before him, Mr. Johnson was influenced by Eastern thinking -- he is also a collector of Asian art -- and he has stuck with kaizen (pronounced KI-zen).
"It is the typical Japanese management approach," said Masaaki Imai, who wrote a book called "Kaizen: The Keys to Japan's Competitive Success," published in 1986. Mr. Imai founded a global consulting firm, the Kaizen Institute, which briefly worked with Fidelity a few years back, and during which Mr. Imai gave speeches to a few hundred Fidelity employees.
Mr. Imai recalled that Mr. Johnson became so excited about kaizen that he commissioned a calligrapher to write the Japanese characters for the word and displayed them in his office.
"When we use the term in the manufacturing sector, it means continual improvement as well as involving everyone in the organization," Mr. Imai said. "Kaizen means making better use of the existing resources, and not necessarily using a lot of money."
By contrast, he added, the Western approach is more given to mergers and acquisitions.
Kaizen has characterized Fidelity's quick response to its competitors. Mr. Johnson, for example, did not buy an online brokerage firm; he built one himself. When Schwab popularized the mutual fund supermarket in the mid-1980's, Mr. Johnson countered with his own.
Now there is FCAT, Fidelity's new-economy research group.
Fidelity, of course, has spent heavily on technology for years -- from $8 billion to $10 billion in the last decade, with the pace doubling over the last five years. And for its money, Fidelity has attracted many new accounts and seen a rapid online migration of its existing customers. At the end of the second quarter, nearly 40 percent of Fidelity's brokerage customers were doing business online, up from 32 percent just six months earlier.
In addition, 57 percent of the contacts made by retirement-account customers have come online this year, compared with 16 percent in 1998.
The more technology, the cheaper the cost. Customer telephone calls to representatives cost Fidelity more than $13 each, on average. The average Internet interaction costs Fidelity about $4.
Because of the online migration of its customers, Fidelity has been able to slow down its hiring of phone representatives, who make up nearly one-sixth of the company's work force of more than 31,000. Even though the company added more than eight million new customer accounts last year, the company's phones handled, on average, 3.1 percent fewer calls a day than they did in 1998.
Perhaps most important, Fidelity's customers seem happy when they move online. Last month, Fidelity climbed past Schwab to reach the top of J. D. Power and Associates' ranking of investor satisfaction with online trading services.
The importance of pleasing the online audience is clear enough. From March to August, the number of American households making online trades grew 22 percent, according to the report. And investors are becoming more promiscuous: the percentage using more than one online broker doubled, to 38 percent, in six months, the report said. A chief reason was investor frustration during the stock market shocks of April.
"The industry as a whole, under that type of duress, achieved much lower levels of satisfaction over all," said Nancy Salk, research director at J. D. Power. "But Fidelity managed to drop less than some of its competitors. What has emerged as most important is service. If you don't deliver on customer service and information, regardless if they're paying $2 or $200, it doesn't matter."
Such studies do not take into account the returns of the mutual funds that are managed by Fidelity. While the results are certainly better than they were in 1996, Fidelity has an odd problem for a business so fixated on technology. During the run-up of technology stocks in 1998 and 1999, its growth funds did not keep pace with those of some of its more aggressive competitors, particularly Janus.
Fidelity made heavy bets that doubled the technology weightings of some of its most prominent funds, but its moves were tame in comparison to Janus's, as was the performance of its growth funds.
"The most significant factor, by far, behind the dip in our equity funds' relative peer performance can be summed up in three words: technology, technology, technology," said Robert C. Pozen, the Fidelity vice chairman who was chosen three years ago by Mr. Johnson to resurrect the firm's fund operations.
Over all, performance has been solid, if not blazing, during Mr. Pozen's tenure. Fidelity's large-company funds, on average, beat 62 percent of their peers and gained 18.8 percent annually, well ahead of the 16 percent return of the S.& P. 500, according to Morningstar. Given the jittery performance of the technology sector this year -- and that of Janus -- Fidelity's more cautious approach looks better in retrospect.
"They don't have to shoot for the stars," said Eric Kobren, a former Fidelity marketing executive who publishes Fidelity Insight, a newsletter that tracks the company. At the post-modern Fidelity, consistency is king.
"What they can't afford to do," Mr. Kobren added, "is strike out."
 
The Message
An Old-Line Firm
Gets a Digital Face
Much about Fidelity has not changed in the five decades since its founding. It is still privately held and has no plans to go public in the foreseeable future. It is still run by a man named Edward Crosby Johnson. And Peter Lynch, the legendary, puff-haired former fund manager is still Fidelity's public face.
But Mr. Lynch, now a vice chairman, has not managed money in years, and a more apt representative of the new Fidelity might be Thomas Tullis, the chief of the usability labs.
Mr. Tullis is not your typical suit. He is a bearded, benevolent-looking professorial type who speaks in thoughtful tones and dresses Silicon Valley casual. He holds eight patents, including No. 5,715,370, for "Method and Apparatus for Extracting Text from a Structured Data File and Converting the Extracted Text to Speech."
"The Web has created a new set of rules or a new set of expectations related to usability," Mr. Tullis said earlier this year, during a speech at an I.B.M. conference on Web design.
"Web pages have to be easier to use," he continued, "than some of the alternatives that people might have available to them. Many people would agree now that Web pages need to be works of art as well. They need to be beautiful."
The Fidelity of old and the Fidelity of Mr. Tullis are both on display just around the corner from the company's headquarters. There, a digital kiosk lets investors communicate with their trillion-dollar, bionic investment firm.
On the wall of the kiosk is a picture of Edward Crosby Johnson II. Through his old-fashioned circular eyeglasses, he stares down on automated-teller machines and digital display terminals. Nearby, posted on a monitor, is a letter from his son to Fidelity investors.
"When my father founded this company in 1946, a 'Web site' was where you were likely to find a spider and a 'home page' was a section of the local newspaper," the younger Mr. Johnson wrote.
"If my father could see the company today," the letter continued, "he would marvel at what we've become."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fidelity spends far more on technology than many rivals, focusing on product usability. At top, Charlie Brenner, senior vice president, tests computer glasses. Above left, Dawna Lovett wears a headband that tracks eye movements, as Michelle McNulty, above, monitors. At left, a computer program recognizes Bill McLellan, a technician. (pg. 1); Abigail P. Johnson, senior vice president for the equity division, owns the most shares of Fidelity and is a daughter of the chief executive. (Fred Gaylor for The New York Times); Edward Crosby Johnson III, longtime chief executive and son of the company's founder, favors making even major changes from within. (John Bohn/The Boston Globe)(pg. 13)
 
Chart: "Biggest Bets"
The 10 companies in which Fidelity funds have the largest stakes.
 
Cisco Systems...4.50%
Citigroup...4.28
Eli Lilly...8.95
Exxon Mobil...3.91
General Electric...2.45
Intel...3.12
Microsoft...2.26
Nortel Networks...4.12
Pfizer...3.12
Texas Instruments...8.11
(Sources: Bigdough.com; S.E.C. filings)(pg. 13)
 
Chart: "A Rebound in Performance"
In the mid-1990's, overall performance of Fidelity's funds turned from stellar to subpar. But Fidelity has bounced back in some categories in recent years.
 
Chart shows Fidelity's large cap, mid cap, small cap and S.& P. 500. It also shows teh percnetage of Fidelity funds in teh top one-forth of their categories, ranked by performance.
(Source: Morningstar Inc.)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIR (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (65%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (65%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (65%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (65%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK INDEXES (91%); ONLINE TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); BONDS (78%); HUMAN FACTORS ENGINEERING (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (70%); MERGERS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (68%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (64%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (63%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (60%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN PIERRET (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



396 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Everyday Plastic, Spun Into Gold

BYLINE: By JANE TANNER

 BODY:
IT wasn't too long ago that credit cards were reserved primarily for major purchases like furniture, appliances or fine jewelry. But these days, many a consumer routinely pulls out plastic for a cup of coffee, a movie ticket or even a cab ride.
More people are using credit cards instead of cash or bank checks, and more card issuers are encouraging that behavior, offering reward points to customers for each dollar charged. Depending on the program, those points can be traded for airline tickets, hotel accommodations, gift certificates or even a Mario Lemieux hockey stick. Last year, nearly 17 percent of all consumer purchases were made with credit cards, according to Credit Card News, which tracks the industry, compared with 10 percent in 1993. 
 The card issuers are also reaping many rewards. Their earnings and stock prices are up, and their charge-offs are down, partly because of sustained low unemployment and declining personal bankruptcies. Industry analysts say three major indicators of a healthy credit card market may now be in place: a strong economy, stable interest rates and market consolidation.
"It's the magic elixir," said Michael J. Freudenstein, who follows the sector for J. P. Morgan Securities.
So far this year, stock prices of the top 10 credit card issuers have climbed 28.6 percent, on average, while the shares of companies engaged primarily in the credit card business rose 36 percent, according to a J. P. Morgan sector index.
The Internet is also helping the industry. Online retail sales reached $20 billion last year in the United States and are expected to grow to $144 billion in three years, according to Forrester Research. "The Internet and the credit card are a perfect match," said Bjorn J. Turnquist, a research director at SNL Securities.
And while some market experts suggest that the card industry may be dragged down by a saturation of offerings and an anticipated deterioration in credit quality next year, others predict that the industry will strengthen, partly because consumers are so comfortable with plastic. "The whole idea of 'buy now, pay later' is very appealing to the American public," said Michael Schneider, an analyst at Standard & Poor's Equity Group. "Consumer spending patterns have been strong and have surprised a lot of people."
In Standard & Poor's latest report on the sector, the favored players are American Express, Capital One Financial, Citigroup, MBNA, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and Providian Financial. Earlier this month, Chase Manhattan was a favored stock, too, but the announcement last week of Chase's $30.9 billion plan to acquire J. P. Morgan prompted S.& P. to downgrade the stock.
Analysts say American Express -- whose stock, now at $59.31, is near a 52-week high -- has done well with new revolving credit products. Its earnings grew 14 percent in the first half of the year. Next month, it plans to offer new products geared toward online use, including one that provides shoppers with disposable account numbers for more secure Internet purchases.
Analysts added that American Express, as well as the the Discover card from Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, could benefit if the Justice Department prevails in its antitrust lawsuit against Visa and MasterCard. The government says the two, the world's largest credit card networks with a combined 75 percent of the $1.3 trillion market, limit competition through exclusive arrangements with bank networks. The trial ended last month, and a decision is expected next month. If Visa and MasterCard lose, banks in the networks would be free to issue American Express and Discover cards.
Standard & Poor's predicted that MBNA, an aggressive marketer of affinity cards, those aligned with clubs or organizations, would sign up more groups and grow through acquisitions, much as it did in August when it bought First Union's $5.5 billion credit card portfolio. S.& P. estimated that earnings per share would increase about 20 percent a year over the next three years.
But Vincent Daniel, an analyst at CIBC World Markets, was not as bullish. He said MBNA carried the most debt, which increased its risks.
Capital One Financial is considered the leader in mining databases for information about potential card holders. The company offers thousands of card options with varying interest rates, based on spending patterns and other consumer characteristics. "That is a key to this game and they know how to do it better than anyone else," said Mr. Turnquist of SNL Securities.
S.& P. expects Capital One to sign up at least a million new accounts this year through Internet marketing.
Providian Financial is also considered strong in scrutinizing large databases and offering cards based on profiles, including poor credit histories. S.& P. expects growth in the company's credit accounts as well as a 25 percent increase in annual earnings per share over the next two to three years.
CITIGROUP is favored by S.& P. because of its huge customer base, which is likely to expand further as a result of its recently announced deal to acquire Associates First Capital.
Mr. Schneider expects the strong competitors to take market share from other contenders, like Household International, CompuCredit, CIT Group and Metris. But Mr. Freudenstein likes the prospects of CompuCredit, which went public in 1999 and mines the niche of customers whose credit histories are slightly tarnished. CompuCredit has signed an agreement with Fleet Credit Card Services to look at Fleet's rejected card applicants and assess whether to give them CompuCredit cards. For each customer that CompuCredit signs on, Fleet gets a referral fee.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: More Americans are using credit cards for small purchases. "It's so convenient," said Brian Moore, who bought lunch with his card at the New York Deli in Hartford. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)
 
Chart:"Good Credit"
Credit card issuers are benefiting from a steady increase in purchases over the Internet and a decline in bankruptcy rates.
 
Chart shows credit card purchases over the Internet and bankruptcy filings for the first six months since 1996.
(Sources: IDC; Office of Public Affairs)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (73%); JPM (LSE) (73%); 8634 (TSE) (73%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (73%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (73%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%); CHASE CARD SERVICES INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CREDIT CARDS (91%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); SALES FINANCING (78%); FINE JEWELRY (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); TRAVEL TICKETS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); INTERNET RETAILING (64%); INTEREST RATES (52%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: MARIO LEMIEUX (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



397 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
Guevara to Reagan, and Beyond

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
IN the 1960's, David A. Stockman borrowed a bus from his pastor to drive fellow Michigan State students to an antiwar protest. He got the bus free, but he charged his fellow travelers $18 a head. "We used the profits for a Che Guevara memorial fund to do good works," Mr. Stockman recalled.
So who was the young Dave Stockman? An anti-establishment protester or a nascent capitalist? 
 The answer, of course, was both. But the categorization process has not become any easier.
At 53, Mr. Stockman has already been a farmer, Congressman, author, investment banker and, most famously, director of the Office of Management and Budget in the Reagan administration. In May, he added another line to his resume: a founder of Heartland Industrial Partners, a buyout firm with dual headquarters in Greenwich, Conn., and Detroit. Heartland will buy small old-economy companies, aggregate them into behemoths and take them public again.
Last month, Heartland, which has raised $1.2 billion in private equity, bought its first company, MascoTech, a small metal forger that Mr. Stockman thinks can be the nucleus of a huge company that makes all the systems that go into a car.
"Lots of small manufacturers have survived decades of hard times," said Mr. Stockman, who spent the last 12 years as a partner at the Blackstone Group, another buyout firm. "Heartland will buy and combine those winners."
Wait a minute. David Stockman as old-economy champion? The same man who as a Congressman -- from Michigan, no less -- argued against the government's bailout of Chrysler in 1979? ("Lee Iacocca still hasn't forgiven me for that!" he said with a laugh.) Again, will the real David Stockman please stand up?
It is tempting to accuse Mr. Stockman of intellectual Zeligism. But those who know him say it would also be dead wrong. They describe him as an unusual combination of number cruncher and strategist whose opinion can always be swayed by facts. They say he can analyze reams of data and come up with an accurate view, not only of what a company is, but also of what it can become.
"David was wrong about Chrysler then, but that won't stop him from embracing the reindustrialization of America now," said Richard E. Dauch, chairman of American Axle and Manufacturing, an automotive parts company on whose board Mr. Stockman served until last month.
Clearly not. "I'm still against government bailing out businesses," Mr. Stockman said, "but the public markets aren't providing the capital that small businesses need. It's ironic, maybe, but that's why Heartland will succeed."
The oldest of five children, David Stockman grew up milking cows and picking fruit on the family farm in St. Joseph, Mich. He majored in horticulture at Michigan State, with an eye toward running the farm for life.
But Michigan State was a hotbed of 60's radicalism, "and I picked up the disease," he recalled. "I wore long hair, read long books, thought deep thoughts," he added. Soon, it was goodbye to farming, hello to Harvard Divinity School.
He quickly abandoned his radicalism. "It was hard to stay zealous when I saw allegedly peace-loving activists toting guns and burning buildings," Mr. Stockman said. In Cambridge, he bunked in Daniel Patrick Moynihan's attic, trading baby-sitting and chores for rent. Late-night debates came with the territory. "That house was a re-education camp for me," Mr. Stockman said.
He soon left Harvard and went to Washington, as an aide to Representative John Anderson. Though remaining a social liberal, he became a fiscal conservative and free-market economist.
He often demonstrated his penchant for data. When he ran for Congress himself in the mid-1970's, he used computers to catalog primary voters and their interests, and to focus his message accordingly. He won by a landslide.
(His computer skill has served him well personally, too: he married Jennifer Blei, the I.B.M. sales representative on his account. They have two teenage daughters and live in Greenwich.)
In his early days in Congress, Mr. Stockman recalled fondly, he hotly debated energy and environmental policy with another brash young freshman named Al Gore. "We argued incessantly, to the chagrin of the senior members, who felt the kids shouldn't talk at all," Mr. Stockman said.
His friends from those days said Mr. Stockman was a persuasive arguer. "Dave is shy, but he really knew how to use numbers to support his policies," said David Gerson, one of Mr. Stockman's Washington roommates and now executive vice president of the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research.
 LATER, as the O.M.B. director, Mr. Stockman used the same techniques. Daniel P. Tredwell, a Washington aide in the 1970's and now a Heartland partner, recalled that Mr. Stockman came to Appropriations Committee meetings with black binders full of facts and figures.
"We staffers made a sport of trying to stump him, but he could answer any question within minutes," Mr. Tredwell said.
But while others saw Mr. Stockman as a just-the-facts guy, "I still saw myself as an intellectual and philosopher," Mr. Stockman said with genial self-mockery. So, perhaps inevitably after he left government, he wrote a book.
He said that book, "The Triumph of Politics: Why the Reagan Revolution Failed," was a treatise on Reaganomics. But he acknowledged that much of Washington saw it as a tell-all betrayal. "The press kept quoting the sound bites instead of the policy," he said.
Actually, although Mr. Stockman may never "eat lunch in that town again," it doesn't much matter. There are enough numbers to crunch in Rust Belt America to keep him occupied.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Stockman, the former Reagan administration official, and his wife, Jennifer, at home in Greenwich, Conn. Mr. Stockman founded Heartland Industrial Partners, a buyout firm, in May. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (57%); AXL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (68%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HUGE CO INC (68%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (57%); HEARTLAND INDUSTRIAL PARTNERS LP (56%); AMERICAN AXLE & MANUFACTURING HOLDINGS INC (51%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); HORTICULTURE (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); FAMILY FARMS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); BAILOUTS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); FAMILY (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); WRITERS (70%); FARM LABOR (61%); 

PERSON: RICHARD E DAUCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



398 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
A Political Rarity: Seven Weeks of Maybe

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
AMERICANS this year are getting a chance to see something rare: a presidential dead heat.
The last time polls showed a White House match-up that was this close at this point was when Ronald Reagan took on President Jimmy Carter in 1980. Before that, you have to reach back another 20 years, to the contest between Vice President Richard M. Nixon and Senator John F. Kennedy. 
 Usually, the nominee who is ahead in the polls just after Labor Day wins. This time, neither candidate is ahead. That is not to suggest that the race of 2000 will be a replay of those of 1960 or 1980. If anything, there are more similarities to 1988, when an incumbent governor took on an incumbent vice president.
Nevertheless, as Gov. George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore sweat out the daily tracking polls, there may be some lessons for them in examining how Mr. Reagan and Mr. Kennedy managed to charge ahead in the final days -- or final hours, in Mr. Kennedy's case -- before the election.
Around this time 20 years ago, Mr. Reagan did many of the same things Mr. Bush has done recently: He declared himself the underdog; asserted that his rival, as the incumbent, had the advantage; pronounced the current administration's record a failure, and insisted that he was not deterred by the publicity about whether he had the brains to be in the Oval Office.
But in terms of the state of the nation, this year's race resembles 1960 much more than 1980. Twenty years ago, there was runaway inflation, the Iran hostage crisis was unresolved and there were interminable lines at the gas pumps. But in 1960, like today, voters seemed relatively content. Then, as now, the race was between a vice president from a fairly popular administration -- at least as far as issues were concerned -- and a more charismatic (and more youthful) opponent.
Mr. Kennedy sought to inspire the electorate with a vision of the nation's future. At a speech given in Mineola, N.Y., nearly 40 years ago, he said, "This is a contest between the contented and those who wish to move ahead, between those who are satisfied and those who want to do better." Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore have also made the case that while the economy might be thriving, that is not enough, and were either of them to repeat verbatim Mr. Kennedy's words, no one would find them surprising or out of place today.
This year, just as in 1960 and 1980, it appears that the televised presidential debates will prove critical to the campaign. Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Reagan faced questions about their capacity and preparedness to lead, as Mr. Bush does now. Such questions were largely put to rest by the debates.
THE 1960 debates allowed Mr. Kennedy to demonstrate that he had mastered the issues against his more seasoned competitor, Mr. Nixon. More important, Mr. Nixon, who had been recuperating from an infection, looked pallid, even menacing, in the first and most heavily watched encounter. By contrast, Mr. Kennedy looked vital, relaxed and confident.
The 1980 debates proved crucial for Mr. Reagan, who was able, with a smile and a shake of the head, to demonstrate that he could handle the presidency. "There you go again," he said to Mr. Carter after the president lambasted him as a threat to world stability.
Even the vexed relations between the incumbent president and his vice president recalls the contests of 1960 and 1980. Many of Mr. Kennedy's associates said that Mr. Nixon failed to take advantage of his partnership with a popular president, Dwight D. Eisenhower. Mr. Eisenhower, however, did not help matters when he said he would need a week to think of a major decision in which Mr. Nixon participated as vice president.
President Clinton has been much more helpful to his vice president, especially by giving him a substantial role in his administration. But, given Mr. Clinton's own troubles, the relationship is complicated and Mr. Gore seems not to have resolved how and how much he can make use of the president to support his candidacy.
Beyond these narrow analogies lies a broad lesson that Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush should learn from the past -- especially in a fight as closely contested as this one. And that is not to grow too confident.
In mid-October of 1980, polls suggested that Mr. Reagan's support was leveling off and that Mr. Carter was on the rise. That led Robert Strauss, Mr. Carter's campaign manager, to say to a reporter at the time, "I sleep like a baby these nights."
Not too long after that comment, Mr. Reagan began to gain ground. He won with only 50.8 percent of the vote. The Kennedy victory was even more of a squeaker: 50.1 percent.
Joseph Napolitan, who worked on the Kennedy campaign, said he often toiled blissfully unaware of how tight the race really was. "We didn't have tracking polls the way we have now," he said. "We probably would have been more frightened if we had."
Imagine how Mr. Napolitan would have felt had he known that the entire contest could have turned on Mr. Kennedy's victory in Illinois, which some people say was assured only through vote stealing engineered by Mayor Richard J. Daley and his Chicago political machine.
"It was decided election day, or if you believe the Daley story, the morning after," said Fred Dutton, who was a strategist for the Kennedy campaign.
The lessons? It is hard to pinpoint a single stroke that can turn an election. And don't expect to win, because often victory is beyond the control of even the most adept candidate. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNORS (75%); US LABOR DAY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HOSTAGE TAKING (50%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); AL GORE (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



399 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
On the Farm, Subsidies Continue To Flourish

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
IN the spring of 1996, the zealous new Republican majority in Congress persuaded President Clinton to sign a farm bill intended to wean American farmers from the government subsidies on which they had relied so heavily for so long.
Given that price supports, land set-asides and other aid were then costing Washington $7.3 billion a year -- and today's budget surpluses were not yet a gleam in even the most optimistic eye -- it seemed like a good idea. It just hasn't worked out. 
 This year, the government is expected to pay farmers $22.7 billion, more than triple the pre-overhaul level, accounting for 40 percent of farmers' net cash income. Some self-reliance.
That 1996 bill, the Freedom to Farm Act, began the shift from New Deal-era price-support programs to a more free-market approach at a time when crop prices were at 10-year highs. The idea was to let farmers choose what to grow based on what could be sold in the United States or overseas, not what the government would promise to buy. But subsidies were not eliminated. And the law wound up simply encouraging the world's most productive farmers to produce even more bin-busting crops, sending prices into a deep slump.
Oddly, though, the government is also making more payments to farmers to compensate them for natural disasters that kept some of them from adding even more surplus crops to glutted markets, like the drought that has plagued Texas, other parts of the Southwest and portions of the Southeast this summer, hitting cotton and pecan crops especially hard. Farmers hold a special place in the American psyche, and Congress is particularly reluctant to stint on relief in a presidential election year. More than a third -- $8.9 billion -- of aid to farmers this year will be disaster relief.
But the larger factor in the bump-up in spending is the bumper crops, especially of corn and soybeans, which are both expected to be up nearly 10 percent, to record levels.
"There's been a lot written about the drought, but we're still going to have a big harvest," said Jonathon P. Braatz, a senior vice president at George K. Baum & Company, a brokerage house in Kansas City, Mo. (Another analyst in the Midwest, where growing conditions have been almost ideal, said one farmer had called this summer's conditions the "wettest drought" he had ever seen.)
The 1996 legislation "didn't do what the designers had hoped," said Jack Hervey, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. "Each year we're seeing larger appropriations for agriculture," he said, because "the strength of the safety net is encouraging crop production."
With granaries still swollen with last year's crops and foreign demand far below what was envisioned by the 1996 legislation, grain prices are depressed for a fourth consecutive year. Specialists say the price of soybeans could slide to the lowest level since 1971. The wheat harvest did shrink slightly this year, but prices are nonetheless expected to approach 14-year lows.
THE low crop prices that distress farmers, of course, also save money for consumers, and help the Federal Reserve keep overall inflation at bay without raising interest rates further. Over the last 12 months, the food component of the Consumer Price Index -- accounting for 15 percent of the market basket -- has climbed just 2.7 percent, while other components have risen 3.4 percent.
This price restraint seems particularly timely as a partial offset to the cost of energy, mainly oil and natural gas, which has jumped 13.1 percent in the last year. Energy, which makes up 7 percent of the price index, is also a big cost to farmers.
But indirectly, consumers do share farmers' pain at low prices. "Consumers are also taxpayers, and taxpayers are to a certain degree bailing the farmers out" with support payments, Mr. Braatz said.
The farm equipment business also suffers. The stock of John Deere, a major producer of tractors and other agricultural equipment, has lost one-third of its value since its 52-week high in May. Last week, however, three Wall Street analysts, seeing a bottom, made fresh appraisals: Two called the stock a "buy," and one rated it "attractive."
Few analysts see a major farm-sector rebound on the horizon, and specialists are already wondering what fixes Washington will seek in the Freedom to Farm Act, which expires in 2002.
"We got rid of deficiency payments, which rise as commodity prices fall," said Fred Nelson, a Department of Agriculture economist. "But other price-sensitive payments have since become operational, as prices sagged in the late 90's."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart shows government payments to farmers since 1996.
(Source: Department of Agriculture)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (62%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: GEORGE K BAUM & CO (62%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (92%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (86%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); BUDGETS (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TREE NUT FARMING (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000



400 of 719 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Even in Euroland, Money Isn't Everything

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: BERLIN

 BODY:
THE 15-member European Union, it has often been said, resembles a bicycle. If it does not move forward, it falls. Right now, the bicycle is wobbling dangerously as Europe's persistent push for ever deeper integration wavers.
The most visible recent sign of a reverse was a decision by 14 of the union's governments to abandon sanctions imposed on Austria for including Jorg Haider's rightist party in government. When the measures were imposed seven months ago, states from France to Germany hailed them as a sign that the union had passed from a purely economic grouping to a nascent political force bound by shared moral values. But the sanctions proved controversial, particularly in smaller European countries that felt they might one day get the Austrian treatment, and it now seems clear that Europe got ahead of itself. 
 "We attempted to define ourselves as a club of values, but what was revealed in the end was that the values were weak and the political entity behind them even weaker," said Dominique Moisi, a French political analyst. For Jacques Chirac, whom Mr. Haider has repeatedly mocked as a "pocket Napoleon," the lesson was particularly bitter.
It is not only Mr. Haider who has taken note that Europe's political cohesion remains tenuous. So have financial markets. The euro, the shared currency introduced last year that is the most visible symbol of the Franco-German determination to move toward a United States of Europe, continues to plunge and has now lost 25 percent of its value. Three more years of this, one joke goes, and the currency will disappear altogether.
There are several reasons for the euro's weakness. Among them are a broad conviction that the potential for growth in the United States is simply greater because of the country's relentless productivity gains and the pull of American equity markets. But a more basic reason is this: the spreading unease over what sort of political integration will accompany the birth of Euroland. As one worried German official put it, "What is the political project that goes with economic union?"
This question was inevitable. In the rush for economic union -- hurried to ensure that a Germany united in 1990 would be irrevocably bound to its European partners -- the fact that states adopting the euro were abandoning a central facet of sovereignty without any clear political plan was glossed over.
But Europe now stands at an awkward crossroads. It needs to achieve greater political cohesion on everything from taxation to labor policy if the euro's credibility is to be salvaged. But, as the Austrian episode shows, Europe is also facing growing doubts among its various electorates over anything that smacks of a superstate. In Denmark, for example, where the Sept. 28 referendum on whether to join the euro is too close to call, any mention of eventual political union in a European federation is anathema.
"There is a new hesitancy," said Karl Kaiser, a German sociologist. "Small states are beginning to realize that European integration is indeed about integration and so you give up sovereignty. What they wanted was union with their national identity intact. But that is not so straightforward."
"Euromuddles," an American observer might be forgiven for muttering -- the same old story. It is true that the union has always grown through difficulties, and has always muddled through. It is also true that with the cold war won, the division of Europe ended, and three central European states already inside NATO, the United States has less reason for fretting about the old continent.
But there is another side to the story that suggests the United States should pay heed. The European Union and its forebears have helped provide a half-century of peace and stability from which America has profited enormously. The union has now started an extraordinary experiment -- the introduction of a shared currency with no European government to back it -- that carries genuine, new risks. A crisis is not inconceivable.
Imagine the following chain of events: Oil prices continue to rise. The euro, buffeted by a no vote in Denmark, continues to fall, raising still further the cost of imported oil. Inflation stirs; Europe's growth, currently looking sturdy, evaporates and a new recession looms before the planned disappearance on Jan. 1, 2002 of the national currencies of the 12 states that have adopted the euro.
German public opinion, sullenly accepting of the euro until now, forms the conviction that the beloved symbol of their post-war nationhood, the Deutsche mark, has been pledged in a reckless political gamble, and rebels. The opposition Christian Democrats, solidly behind ever greater European integration under Helmut Kohl but now casting around desperately for a new platform, are tempted to back the rebellion.
Populist, nationalist leaders, among them Mr. Haider, Silvio Berlusconi in Italy, and Pia Kjaersgaard in Denmark, find new grist for anti-European tirades. The age of the center-left in Europe gives way to an age of a new right. Any hope of real political integration flounders, leaving the euro a threatened orphan.
It probably will not happen, at least not all at once. But even without such a crisis, the European Union is facing unusually difficult months. One factor weighing on the euro is the question of the European Union's enlargement. Who know where Europe ends and what geographical entity the euro will ultimately represent?
MORE than a decade has now gone by since the cold war's end, but not one post-Communist European state has been brought into Europe's elite club. Without the membership of states like Poland or the Czech Republic, however, the quest of Europe's Founding Fathers for a continent at one and at peace looks hollow. The union accepts this fact, but does not know what to do about it.
For if more members come in, and the current mechanisms of governance are not changed, the union is likely to become ungovernable. So France, which holds the union's rotating presidency, is looking at ways to streamline the union -- through more decision-making by qualified majorities and a reduction in the number of executive commissioners in Brussels. It is also trying to draft a European charter of the basic rights of the union's 375 million citizens. All this by the end of the year. To many, however, such moves smack again of a dilution of nationhood at a time when they are not ready for it.
"Progress will be slow," conceded Klaus Leggewie, a German political analyst. "But if you look at what was dreamed of for the union in the 1950's, we got it in the end. It took longer than expected, but we got there. In the same way we will get a charter of rights and majority voting and an expanded union. Not next year. But it will be done."
That is the optimistic view. If things go the other way, it is a safe bet that Europe will be hearing a lot more of the now buoyant Mr. Haider and his kind.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jorg Haider posed in triumph last October after his Freedom Party came in second in Austria's elections. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); AUSTRIA (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); DENMARK (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EQUITY BANCORP INC (53%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); AUSTRIA (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); DENMARK (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EURO ZONE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EURO (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLITICS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); REFERENDUMS (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000

 
